ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142135	The first point has three parts. - (a) Report on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2017 - b) Report on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2018 - Report on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2018 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on the conclusion of the HS adopted at the 14th session held on 24 October 2014. The debate was conducted by the EU Committee on Regional Development and Funds. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is Secretary of State Velimir Zunec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142136	Dear President HS, honourable MPs and MPs in HS, here you have heard, based on the conclusion of the HS adopted at the 14th session held in October 2014. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit regular six-month reports on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes. The report gives an overview of and review of the financial indicators of utilisation and descriptive review of the state of implementation of the European Structural Investment Funds for the financial period 2014-2020 through the presentation of all operational programmes, hence, the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, operational programme of effective human potential, rural development programme and operational programme for maritime and fisheries, and key information on implementation of the first, second and fifth components of the programme... the transport programme, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and human potential development, as well as the operational programme for fisheries for the financial period 2007-2013. When we talk about the financial period 2014-2020, we should know that the total value of the allocations or allocation for the Republic of Croatia is EUR 10.7 billion, and this reporting period, therefore, includes actually 3 half-year periods, so, the second half of 2017, and the first and second half of 2018. During these 3 half-year periods, projects worth EUR 4,24 billion were agreed on, therefore, out of the total of EUR 6,63 billion agreed at the time, which amounts to almost 64% of the total contracted funds. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The end-users and contractors were paid EUR 1.32 billion of the total paid 1.98 billion, i.e. in those three half-year periods, nearly 67% of all previous salaries were paid. 1.52 billion euros have been certified from a total of 1.83 billion euros, which means nearly 83.5% of the funds have been certified during these 3 half-year periods and, therefore, as far as the EU Commission's delivery is concerned, an amount of 93.7.5 million euros, which means almost 55% of the total amount allocated at the end of 2018 is 1.71 billion euros. When we talk about the financial period 2007-2013, this report also includes, therefore, all three half-yearly reports, so there was no negotiation in that period, and the value of the agreed projects was reduced by almost 70 million euros, resulting in the implementation of projects in phases, i.e. their financing in the new financial perspective of 2014-2020. The total amount of allocation for the period 2007-2013 is 1.27 billion euros. A total of 8.81m euros were paid to end-users and contractors, i.e. 0.78% of the total amount paid since the start of implementation was 1.13 billion euros. 61.14m euros out of a total of 1.18 billion euros were certified, so 5.18% were certified during those three half-year periods, and 24.3m euros were found, which means 2.24% of the amount found by December 31st, which amounted to 1.11 billion euros. A few words about irregularities. Therefore, 28 new cases of irregularities were recorded in IMS from 1 July to 31 December 2017. In the first half of 2018, 48 cases of irregularities were recorded and new 58 cases of irregularities were reported in the reporting period from 1 July to 31 December 2018, as we hear. The number of irregularities was in a slight increase, therefore, but of course this is definitely in the correlation with the increase in the contract rate because the scope for the identification of irregularities has been significantly increased and a significantly higher number of projects has been agreed than in previous periods. So, in conclusion, the period 2007-2013 is slowly bringing to an end, so simply, this is a process that takes place, where, therefore, the EU Commission is asking for further explanations which, therefore, the Republic of Croatia needs to be delivered in order to close all of this together, and when we speak and, of course, we expect that in the near future. When we talk about the period 2014-2020, there is therefore a significant increase in the number of tenders published, i.e. public calls, for all applicants, a significant increase in the amount of contracted projects, as well as the rates of agreement compared to the allocation allocated. A significant increase in the amount of paid end-users to contractors, as well as the amounts of certified and available funds by the EU Commission, is visible. So, all mentioned, is the result of the continued and busy work of all employees within the management and control system, and we will continue to work on simplifying procedures, speeding up the allocation procedures, as well as removing the barriers that our applicants encounter, which our people encounter during applications for public calls. Of course, since the end of 2017, the e-Funds information system has been in operation, which we further want to speed up and simplify and continue to work on its promotion in order to make it easier for our applicants to report their projects. Here, so much for me in this opening argument. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142137	We have six replicas on the State Secretary's exhibit. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142138	Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, I'm sorry she's not a resolute minister here. The latest report shows that the EU Commission has requested some corrective and preventive measures to be implemented. Why and what corrective measures does this apply to? The report also mentions an action plan to improve the management and control system of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, with corrective and preventive measures included, to strengthen the system, which is specifically requested from you by the EU Commission, based on the ARPA's report. Please give me concrete and clear reasons why the EU Commission asked you to draw up such a plan and provide me with an action plan and a final report of the ARPA on the revision of the operational programme system competitiveness and cohesion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142139	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142140	Thank you very much for asking. So, we are in continuous interaction with the EU Commission and, of course, as the youngest Member State, we have the least experience in implementing such a large financial allotment, but we are definitely in this interaction, so we listen to what the EU Commission is asking us to do and to do some of the measures and activities that are proposed to us, such as being an objection that we are sub-capaciated in terms of human capacities, so what has been done, or has been improved because such percentages of the bargaining, payments, or all the other amounts that have been achieved, would not have been achieved if there were not many more people. The information you requested will be delivered to you, it's no problem, so we don't have any secrets, so everything is transparent, everything is available, everything can be seen on our portal... Funds.hr, therefore, no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142141	The second is fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142142	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, looking at only projects and the value of the topic by which certain projects are sought back, we come to a key conclusion. The first is to try to weigh certain individuals through public procurement, when we look at only the item where the technical specifications are listed are drawn up in a way that has the effect of market distortions and discrimination. That says, if we're talking about one project, another, it's not listed here, I see, I've looked at the speed here now, 1.48 million, there's more of these projects. Let's look at the projects that are related to water infrastructure, agglomeration, funds return, what's going on in these systems? Is anyone there answering? Whether there are responsible persons at various local self-governments, at company level, and even the states that do this, or simply we just find it here and it doesn't say which person is actually responsible for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142143	Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142144	Thank you very much. The question, therefore, is on end-users, you are right to have a lot of these irregularities, the number has been increased but you need to know that we are implementing them in the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion in total over 4300 projects in effective human potentials over 1200, therefore over 5.5 thousand projects have been implemented with the end of 2018 and, of course, in certain public procurement procedures, the event of irregularities. What's important is, so that's where we detected the problem, and all these big projects from a certain period of time are meant to be pre-controlled, I'd say it's an ex-ante public procurement check to avoid all these situations. It's about grants, but they're not easy to come by, so strict procedures need to be followed, and definitely one word of type can be equally valuable, so a very big mistake, i.e. a very big one, I would say correction. And it is very important and we are working to educate them and that these end-users, therefore, our municipalities and the cities of the county and everyone else, be as informed as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142145	Third replica of my colleague, Varga, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm interested in the mechanisms you have for the control of the dedicated spending of funds in the Resort Ministry. Namely, I have direct knowledge that, specifically in health care, the means that are approved for the equipment of daily hospitals are used for other purposes rather than in the equipment of the daily hospital before it comes to the ears and Brussels, then followed by penalties and repercusions differently than you have the possibilities of intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142147	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142148	I appreciate the question. I don't have that knowledge, but we'd like you to send us your written request, or for an answer, a question, so we'd be happy to answer, but we don't have that information. We know, therefore, that considerable resources are being invested in the area of health care and that our health and health homes, i.e. general hospitals, day-to-day surgery, or OHBP, are being improved, and that emergency hospital reception is being united. We will therefore verify this information and take certain steps as a governing body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142149	Now it's all yours, fellow Mattelian, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142150	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, I am interested in whether you have certain statistics in the ministry, i.e. how many successful projects have been applied primarily, how many successful projects have been applied by regional coordinators or county development agencies. Because I think that only through the valorisation of their work can we also valorise the value of the Regional Development Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142151	Secretary of State's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142152	I appreciate the question. So at this point I can't give you the exact information about regional coordinators, they're as such recently established, so they've changed their role and we're looking at them as extended hands of our ministry on the ground but these are data that can be easily verified. We have data for all counties, so this might probably have, the figures might be comparable to the data you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142153	Now it's time for fellow Weeley. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142154	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. The fact is that we have a weak use of EU funds, so all statistical indicators are on the trail, this is also confirmed by the State Audit report on the effectiveness of the use of EU grants, but I am now interested in something other State Secretary. If you are considering in the ministry ways to enable several hundred projects that unfortunately did not go through a rural development programme related to some social spaces, so from sports playgrounds, cultural centres, firehouses that are not approved, is there still something planned to be done to allow local units to make it happen there primarily? Another issue is the problem of financial corrections that have been faced with the truth by all EU member states, but I believe that the ministry needs to be a little stronger to avoid actually coming to the risk of the budget of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142155	Thank you. Answer, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142156	Thank you very much for asking. As far as the rural development programme is concerned, these are projects that you mentioned about sports facilities, cultural facilities, or centres, firehouses, etc. So he had a really big envelope and there was a big competition and those chosen were chosen. So in this financial perspective, I don't think there's going to be any space simply for that because we're slowly approaching means 90% of the competitions announced, we're approaching 79% of the contracted funds, and as far as this part is concerned, I definitely wouldn't agree with you that we're very bad at withdrawing funds because it means the figures are saying that the RH is somewhere, so we're approaching the middle and we're the youngest member. When we talk, if we're talking about, when we're talking about, I'm sorry, when we talk about corrections, the EU average is 10%, so they happen, it's normal no one wants them but simply That's it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142157	And the last replica of my colleague Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142158	Thank you, Mr. President. I have, Your Honor, Secretary of State, a particular question, why there is no clear amount in the table of irregularities, so specifically, for example. Only the percentages, 5% e-schools, are listed digitally... The school how much millions is this irregularity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Building a studio pavilion building 25%, university campus 5%, building and equipping student campus 5%, project of university campuses, so 10%, so there are no irregularities or amounts to where these campuses are located and in which cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142160	Here, thanks for asking. So, I mean, we wanted to inform all of you about what the corrections are about, so we have those of 5, 10, 20, 100, so we have all examples, so if you think that this is important, we can also include those figures inside, so there's nothing we're hiding, every data can be found and I've told you already structural funds.hr about every project its value contracted funds but we can include them in because there's no reason to hide anything, that's all public data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142161	This is what we've come to an end with, will the representatives of the board take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate and it's the first turn of the SDP counseling club, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142162	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here after European elections, the first topic on the agenda of this Assembly is also a European topic. I would also take the opportunity to congratulate our colleague, our colleagues who have entered the European Parliament and those who have not, more fortunately, twice. Today, if we were to do a survey in the Republic of Croatia, if we were to ask citizens about what their first EU association is, it would certainly be EU funds. This would, unfortunately, be neither the rule of law nor the freedom of movement nor the freedom of the market but would be the EU funds, because exactly the EU's cohesion policy and its financial tools are the type for which the EU is closest to citizens. The EU knows this in itself, and therefore this famous vis-à-visability is always an integral part of every competition that is launched by the EU where it co-finances certain projects and those large blue flags which are located not only in rural areas across Europe, they are just talking about how the EU wants citizens to see that it finance certain projects relating to infrastructure building or something else. In addition to the investment and structural funds used by Member States, which we use in Croatia, there are pre-accession funds that we used to use and which are not such large allotments, or such large financial envelopes, and they are not the aim of investing in infrastructure projects, they are not aimed at large construction, these are soft projects where they learn first and foremost the EU fund alphabet in terms of how to come up with the right idea, how to design a sustainable project, how to implement this project, and how to strengthen the capacity to absorb EU funds. The Republic of Croatia reportedly has been a beneficiary and pre-accession funds and how much it has succeeded in this EU fund alphabet, it is also speaking this report and this report is statistics, statistics are actually methodologies in which the figures are agreed, if something in science has an exact, then they are certainly figures, so in the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2018 67% of the total allocation was agreed, so 6.7 billion euros of 10.7 billion euros. Almost 2 billion euros were paid out, so 18%. These figures are irrevocable, these figures are measurable and if we compare these figures to 20156 they are larger by a triple percentage. However, just as the exact numbers that are extremely positive and which I will not say any more about because probably Col. Jurič and the rest of the HDZ Club will highlight this positiveness of this report, so by the same methodology, the same analysis at European level is actually visible next and that is that we are not so successful. When we look at the EU as a whole, then at EU level 63% of the total allocation, therefore of 644 billion euros, 404 billion euros were agreed and 140 and 22% were paid, and this is data for half of 2018. We are, by the success of absorbing the withdrawal of EU funds almost at the very beginning of the EU, I think that only Malta is behind us. So we cannot be satisfied with this percentage for sure because the argument that Croatia is paying much less in the European cash register than it gets us would not, of course, be the only argument because it would be a disaster if a country like Croatia, which, by almost all standards, is somewhere at the bottom of the EU, were paying more than it would get from the EU budget. So I would conclude that instead of dealing with the new financial framework 2021–2027, we are dealing with the analysis of projects that were successful, which were sustainable, which should continue, instead of dealing with the organisation, instead of dealing with those projects that affect the real work of demographic growth, which affect the growth of economies, which affect rural development, to recognise such projects, to valorise them, we are still dealing with strengthening the capacity to absorb EU funds. Experiences after pre-accession funds have told us the same thing that we have experienced after structural and investment funds, which is that for better absorption of these funds, structural changes are needed primarily in two key sectors, which is public administration and local self-government. But what are we doing? We are passing laws that are not because the law that unites offices for the county economy is not crucial or is not structural reform of public administration. The Law on Elections in Local Self-Government Units, etc. Lex Sheriff, which reduces the role of representative bodies at the core of the executive body, is also not, not this structural reform of local self-government. I am afraid, therefore, that all these reforms, i.e. all these fine laws that we are making, are not in favour of strengthening the capacity to absorb EU funds, or to do a quality system that will be able, regardless of which government, which government or which ideology or which party led this country, because this is a matter of business. Equally, it is not enough for one ministry to be capacitated for the absorption of EU funds but is necessary for it to be the entire government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142163	Second debate, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142164	Thank you, well-respected president, respected secretary of state with co-worker, colleague and colleague, so here we have a half-yearly report on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2018. Reports are submitted to the Croatian Parliament on the basis of the 2014 conclusions for each half-year period. What we can say at the very beginning is that we should commend the effort to finally get these three reports and catch the rhythm so that here we are now discussing the report by 31 December 2018, which has not been the case for years. I hope that there will be this good practice in the future and that we will continue with this dynamic because all the reports have in me, their main purpose is to see exactly what we are missing, which we can fix at some point and then better to discuss in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. As regards the content of the report, it shall, according to its form, provide a review of the financial indicators used and a description of the state of implementation of the use of the European Structural Investment Funds for the financial period from 2014 to '20. through the presentation of operational programmes and key implementation data of the first, second and fifth components of the IPA programme and the operational programmes of the financial period 2007 to 2013; As regards the financial period 2014 to 2020, I would only underline some of the data once more. Therefore, in the relevant reporting periods from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2018, projects worth EUR 4,24 billion were agreed, which is 63,97% of the total agreed on on on 31 December 2018, amounting to 6,63 billion. The end-users and contractors were paid EUR 1.32 billion, which is 66.8% of the total amount paid from the start of the implementation until the end of 2018, which is 1.98 billion. The EUR 1.52 billion, i.e. 83.38% of the total amount certified from the start of implementation until 31 December, is EUR 1.83 billion. The European Commission has provided us with EUR 937.47 million, representing 54.77% of the total amount allocated to us from the start of implementation. Why am I pointing this out? In order to see how much work has been made and what has been done precisely during this period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2018. So 63.97%, paid 66.80%. Furthermore, in relation to the financial period 2007 to 2013, of course it is the relevant reporting periods where there has been no negotiation, and the value of the agreed projects is even reduced, which is understandable, as this was also the result of the implementation of the project in the phases of the transfer of part of the contracted funds that exceed the amount of the allotment in the second phase of the project financed under the financial period 2014 to 2020, which also reduces the total contract value of the funds on 31 December 2018, which is EUR 1.27 billion. Only 0.78% were paid to end-users and contractors, 5.18% and 61.14 million, respectively, of the total verified. And now that I'm not counting all these amounts, it should be stressed, however, because often in the media we can also hear calls at the expense of both the ministry and the government that we haven't used the funds, that we've lost some funds. Here it should be stressed that by the end of last year all programmes have achieved n+3 goals. It should also be pointed out that by the end of 2018, this government increased the amount of the contracted funds at the level of the European Structural Investment Funds for Allocation 2014 to 2020 by 572% and the payment by 578%. Speaking of irregularities, their increase is seen, we have more precisely in the first half of which we are discussing 28 cases, and then in the next 49 to have as many as 58 irregularities in the last reporting period from 1 July to 31 December 2018. Although this increase is in close connection with the increase in the bargaining process and is somewhat expected, it is necessary to take all steps to make these irregularities any less, especially in order not to accidentally come into the situation that we have to return funds for a particular project. All of us, then, are tasked to minimise the number of irregularities in the next reporting periods. Looking together at this one and a half-yearly period, I think the indisputable fact that speeding up the dynamics of the bargaining is significant, and it is also necessary to commend from this place the efforts of all involved in this process. Speaking of the current state we see, here yesterday I was looking at the page of the structural funds, there were 73 open tenders, today we have 61, which means that some of them have already closed, yesterday we had 9.2 billion kuna available, today we have 8.5 billion kuna, which means that great efforts have been made and numerous competitions have been opened, so here is the call from this place and cities and municipalities, our entrepreneurs, associations and all those whose tenders are intended. The previous month, we ended up with almost 89% of the value of the calls made and more than 67% of the contracts, which brought us closer to the European average. 22% was paid, while 20% of the funds were allocated. With the increasing intensity of the absorption of European funds recorded, this amount will also increase, currently more than 80% of all public investments in the Republic of Croatia due to EU funds and 8306 private companies are financed by EU funds. In particular, it would single out the priority axis here, the business competitiveness from the operational competitiveness and cohesion programme that records the contract over 300%. This is a clear signal that our entrepreneurs are the most active users, which should be a clear indicator for the preparation of future programmes and related documents. Today should also point out and say that this is a good opportunity to open the topic for the next multiannual financial framework for the period from 2021-2027. Due to the complex situation in which the EU is located and the long-term process of adoption, it is increasingly likely that the final phase of the agreement on a new financial framework, so-called. The EU budget is to be adopted right during the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. I am sure that the competent ministry will take advantage of and know very well what needs and projects are in the previous reporting period, and will do everything to shape the next programming period to adapt it to our needs and make the most of the resources available to us. In recent times, there have been a lot of criticism and remarks that elevators cannot be financed in several residential buildings, and we also know that social homes, kindergartens, etc. cannot be financed from EU funds in settlements above 5,000 people. We also have criticism, observations and demands from the field that projects of cities, municipalities, entrepreneurs can be financed, and not projects of tourist communities. I am convinced that these and a number of other requirements that the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds know very much and best about will know well in the coming period and allow just such projects to be implemented in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Another truth that often passes, that we have paid more money into the common budget than we have drawn, would also point out this at the same time that since its entry into the EU, the Republic has paid a total budget of 19.7 billion kuna, and has received 34.1 billion kuna in the same period from Europe, resulting in a plus 14.4 billion kuna. Here is, in short, all of these reports, which the HDZ Club considers to have put a lot of effort on the part of the ministry and the government, and that the results are visible, there is a period and arrangements for the next financial framework for the 2021-2027 period, which we need to make very good and smart use of and the HDZ Club supports all these 3 reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142165	We're going to the third club, it's the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142166	Dear Secretary of State, respected officials of the Ministry of Regional Development, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, here I would say before us three reports, six-month reports covering the period until December 2018. Today, 80% of public investment is financed from EU funds. It is evident from all three reports that we are actually very poor at using EU funds, that we are slowly investing them in the economy and that these investment cycles are progressing very slowly, the processes and the tendering themselves are taking a long time, and the competition approval process itself, and later we have major problems when negotiating projects themselves in terms of tailored and professional capacity in public procurement, because this shows that we do not actually have sufficient professional administrative and other capacities. To boast 61.85% of the contract in 2019. I must say, it's not exactly a success since we know that only 17% of the costs of those investments that actually took place in the Republic of Croatia have been confirmed and that this number is actually devastating. It is evident, as I said, that from these reports that we have huge problems in the realization of projects, that we will come to us in 2021. that we will have a new financial period at our disposal without actually catching up with the old ones and in fact, we will also be dealing with those new financial periods that should have been completed long ago, only in 2021 will we discover new corrections, new irregularities, new illegalities because the system does not work well. Please respond in the final presentation, given that you have not closed the Operational Programme of Transport from 2013-2013, to tell me when you will close it, specifically and how much illegality or irregularities there is in the Operational Programme 2007-2013. Also, please, given that no information on the duration of the evaluation of the projects is provided in these reports, there is no information on the number of delayed tenders, on the long waiting deadlines for the payment of the users, on the requests for compensation of the funds, means that I am reported on a daily basis by representatives of associations, representatives of citizens, representatives of entrepreneurs, who actually have liquidity problems because the institutions, meaning they do not respect the deadlines for the payment of the funds used or spent. So our associations, our entrepreneurs, our units of local self-government have a big problem because they can't really, when they apply for compensation, that process just takes too long. I also want to know when, as a system, you plan to remove the existence of double criteria, because if our entrepreneur is late and one second, if our entrepreneur doesn't have a signature on all the papers he's supposed to have, he's automatically off, but the same doesn't apply to the system. The system breaks deadlines and when a report is approved for compensation, deadlines and complaints declared, so over a year, people have waited for decisions to be adopted, i.e. the failure to accept their objections and the evaluation itself breaks deadlines, although 120 days are foreseen, there is no such thing. You have double criteria in the system. One's worth to the users, and the other's worth to the citizens who pay the public money. So these people are in the system and they're not fulfilling their purpose. It is defeating to complicate additional national procedures in 2019 because, for example, in agriculture, young farmers await an evaluation of over 240 days. So from 13 April 2018 to 13 June 2018, the competition lasted and then the minister was only in the 3rd month. In 2019, everyone who submitted the application will pass. But people could already, if it was done at 5:00. e.g., everyone who applied will pass, as Minister Romic did while he was Minister of Agriculture, for young farmers, we would already have a huge wave of investments in summer 2018, and we would not be dealing with it later. The difficulties visible and naked eye in this report suggest a lack of timely decisions. To the constant delay of solving the accumulated problems and the tromitude of the public administration. A fundamental reform of the public administration is needed, and its progress is not seen in the naked eye. Times are gone and you haven't worked anymore, it's visible, and when projects aren't realized, then you'll see it go weak because cities, because municipalities, because urban utility companies don't have financial and professional capacities. We understand that, too. I understand that. But citizens know very well whose administration it's been in over the past few years, they know very well who's been hiring in these city companies and that it was actually a party staffing polygon. The problem with water and draining, the problem with installing the purifier, all of it to your own. The rise in the quality of life of citizens has been promised, but competitions are cancelled. Public procurements started in 2016, for example in Velika Gorica, because offers that are 30% higher. Realisations are not progressing well, meaning agreed projects, and every day they reach out to the public information on millions of corrections based on irregularities identified for illegal treatment. Don't be surprised tomorrow at the fiscal capacities of cities and municipalities because you've crushed them to actually rule. I'll repeat by who knows which time, that the counties don't do their assigned tasks in the field of education, health services, and that's also visible on waste management projects. Simply, we will experience a real defeat here and Croatia will have to pay huge foams in 2020 because we have not actually established a model of the circular waste management economy. I wonder, since the secretary of state is here to answer my questions specifically, how much have you spent on the 2030 media campaign of the Croatian strategy? A concrete response to the final presentation, please. How much did you spend public money on promoting an empty Slavonia project? A concrete answer, please, in your final presentation. According to the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion, only 14% of the funds were invested in 5 Slavonian counties, although you boast of the project. 31% were invested in Zagreb. The operational programme of effective human potential, in 5 Slavonian counties, out of 100% of the resources, was invested only 8% and this is evident from this report. I comment on the latest report since it shows the latest data. I also pray that, in future, reports, that it is actually even more transparent and that they are under point 5. Irregularities, where there is an indication of those irregularities where there is a demonstration of those irregularities from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion and by all other operational programmes that the actual amount of any irregular expenditure is displayed. So citizens and we here in the Croatian Parliament are interested here is a concrete improvement of the water municipal infrastructure of agglomeration. It says a change in the terms of ability after opening bids. How it occurred to someone in the first place that they were doing it, and you set a 10% correction. And now how much is that financial correction, is that a million, is that two million kuna? Is that five? The citizens have it, and they need to know. We also have numerous, numerous, literally numerous projects related to the construction of dormitories, I am interested in what dormitories they are and where they are located. So we also have the equipment of daily hospitals and day-to-day surgery and there will be a return of 5% of the value of the purchase. So it says, the cause of the discriminatory technical specifications and only 5%, the minimum correction is 25% if some easing circumstances occur may result in a reduction in correction. Who says it'll stay at 5% after the commission arrives? Please give a concrete answer in the final statement, given that I am in constant contact with the European Commission because I cannot obtain certain data from the RES, so please respond. The latest report by 31 December 2018 shows that the European Commission has requested certain corrective and preventive measures to be implemented. Don't tell me about that 2019 they were looking for you because you have a lack of people in the system, that's not why they're looking for you. Tell me why they've been looking for you and what corrective measures they've taken. Are they related to Croatia's payments? The report mentions an action plan to improve the work of the management and control system of the competitiveness and cohesion operational programme, which is the largest operational programme with included corrective and preventive measures to strengthen the systems requested by the European Commission on the basis of the ARPA's final report. So give me the correct reasons clearly and specifically in the final report on why the commission asked for it. This isn't common. Since I do not get an answer to some questions, please a specific scenario, suitable for the project Long Village-Kristevci in view of the ruling of the administrative court, means that please. Because the entire investment is worth 1.3 billion kuna, I wonder if it will fall on the back, meaning the state budget and all the users, or citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I also ask you, since you are in charge of the use and supervision of the entire system as a governing body, how many irregularities are in the priority axis relating to technical assistance and which ministries have done the same. How we, as citizens, will believe that the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds is good at managing money, when and only when negotiated for error, because of irregularities and they should be the leader, should they be the feather of expert staff. So it's no wonder for a smaller municipality or a smaller utility company when there's a problem with public procurement when you're having trouble negotiating technical assistance. Please specify the amount of irregularities in the priority axis of technical assistance, who committed them by the users in the system, means which ministry or implementing body level two. Please, given that I receive daily requests when there will be a competition for the energy restoration of family homes, today it is already in June 2019, in an indicative plan of publication although it has been announced that it will be gone in June 2019. This competition is no longer available, I am interested specifically in when there will be a competition for the energy reconstruction of houses because it would be good to have these projects signed up as soon as possible, that users actually execute and rebuild and actually welcome the winter ready. And here I would like to say we have nothing to brag about when it comes to EU funds, we are weak, hard and bad and we are using it, primarily because of the absence of a fundamental reform of public administration, territorial, not at all unmotivating for territorial meaning for Croatia because this kind of fragmentation even though it allows certain political groups to rule it does not benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I would like to say that two projects concerning the Ministry of Administration and related to the management of the system, the introduction of a quality system into public administration and a competent framework that should ensure the professionalisation of 53 million kuna as agreed was realised according to the response of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, only 180 thousand kuna. So there is no progress in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142167	Before we move to the next debate, let's all welcome together teachers, students and students of the O.S. Stjepan Radic from Metkovic, welcome! I would now like to ask my colleague, Branko Hrg, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142168	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with an associate. Everyone here said that European projects are being prepared for a long time, that the process is long-lasting, that it is very difficult to go and we are talking today about a report for the second half of 2017, so when we talk about a long-term process then we have to go back another year, two, three ahead of 2017 and say that if this report also has shortcomings and if there is a weaker realization that it is still credited under quotes by those who did so there in 2014, '15. And even in '16. years in that period when we were looking for each other and finding each other, and we weren't exactly agile about it. And that's the result of this report. The result of the work or work, the ability or incompetence of that time is in this report. It's like that, with the numbers that are positive, it's better than, the results are more important than the previous years, and we're a positive judge of it as a club. The fact is that it would be good if the report had a little more emphasis on what had been prepared throughout 2017 and that period in 2017 and what would be realized, which is now being realized in this time. Then we'd get a little better picture, but the report's working this way, so it's prescribed what's there. But I just want to point out that part, that in that time period the system was running, that the projects were launched and that there were never as many of them now. You have a situation today that there are almost no municipalities or cities in the Republic of Croatia that have no EU project, almost no. Small municipalities come to projects worth 10 million kunas. Has anyone remembered such a period in the Republic of Croatia since this structure was created? There's no period like that, and he's here. So a good part of these programs was prepared just in 2017. I'm going to get a little bit attached here to the current time and infrastructure-type programs mean agglomerations. We remember well in 2010 started projects preparing agglomerations, now they are to say so in full swing. It has often been said that local self-governments don't have prepared programs, they don't have prepared projects, they don't have construction permits, they don't have this, they don't have that, and so it taps everything in place. So what happened then from 2017 to 2019 is that we now suddenly have over a billion kuna projects already, a billion EUR agreed and that we have prepared for 2, for over 2 billion euros. That's not what we're talking about, and that's the result of part of the work and in this period that we're talking about here. And that's how it's supposed to be seen. So, we have projects, the realisation goes ahead, it increases drastically, but here I'm actually interested because here is the secretary of state that maybe in the part where you're going to hear a little bit of information, they're very important for local self-government, which is now with these agglomerations, the allocation is a billion and some EUR, the needs are 2 billion, what are expectations, which with all the prepared projects because people have worked very hard, they've shown that despite all these difficulties, the administrative obstacles, all of what they've been pounding on their heads and feet they've managed to prepare projects, they've managed to do them, they've managed to lead them to a phase that they can go into realisation, and now to see what kind of variants, what they're going to provide, this difference of money, and that they can move on with all these projects, so that they can go on to get us a report on the next period, and how they're rich with realisationing, rich numbers and the real results. That's what we're interested in right now because this is the second semester of 2017. Dear God no matter what was done here then, it's over, it can't be fixed anymore. But what's ahead of us is important, so that our next reports will be better, richer and fuller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142169	Now it's HNS's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142170	Thank you, well-respected President, distinguished secretary of state with co-worker, colleague and colleague, today we are discussing reports on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2018. As we have already heard in the presentation and presentation of the Secretary of State and that colleague mentioned and colleague, certain data covering key information on the implementation of the 2014-20 financial programme. and this operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, which is also the strongest programme, then we have this effective human potential, rural development, the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries, and that is precisely coming from the financial indicators of success in retreating with a specific focus on trends that can be identified compared to the previous reporting period. It is true that when the EU is mentioned, we all immediately think about the EU funds and the assistance and opportunities they provide us with, because it is true that if we go through our municipalities, through our cities in any, almost all areas where there are some public buildings or entrepreneurs really built with EU funds. We also see this by the markings that are on the construction sites, whether on the already completed and completed buildings where it says they have been restored with EU funds. So it's good to mention some specific data, some numbers. From this current financial cycle in the reporting period of 18 months, EUR 4,24 billion was agreed. By 31 December 2018, a total of EUR 6,63 billion was agreed, amounting to 61,85 % of the total allocations of EUR 10,73 billion. Total payments amount to EUR 1.98 billion, or 18.5% of total allocations. If we take the observed period, these are data that are somewhat encouraging because, in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2017, EUR 1.33 billion was agreed, from 1 January to 30 June 2018. EUR 1,34 billion, while a significant shift or increase is recorded in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2018 when EUR 1.56 billion is agreed. Therefore, there is a trend in the growth of bargaining, as well as an increase in payment to users, as well as an acceleration of the dynamics of certified and available funds. However, a correlation has also been observed, as we have heard in the State Secretary's replies, which is why, due to the increase in irregularities and the increase in the speed of the bargaining process. In the second half of 2017 we have recorded 28 cases, in 2018 in the first half of 49, in the second 2018, 58. The most common reasons are not usually of a technical nature and appear when preparing larger and more complex projects. I believe, however, that there will be a tendency to decrease, or that it will be slightly lower, because regardless of all the circumstances, we must consider that such cases should be as small as possible, since 975 of these cases have been found from 2008 to 2017, while 682 cases have been closed. From the EU Funds for the period 2014-2020 in the Republic of Croatia during the reporting period, therefore, in those 18 months a total of EUR 1.56 billion of EU funds were agreed under the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, EUR 904 million was agreed, paid 254 or 63.4 was paid with the 31st December. Under human potential, a little less than EUR 500 million was agreed, paid 210, that is 63%, paid slightly more than 21%. In the framework of rural development, we have an agreement of 142 million, paid 126. And in the context of maritime and fishing, we have a 17 million, something a little bit higher, it's been paid 20 for those previous contracts. In total, the EU funds for the period 2007-2013 in the Republic of Croatia decreased the value of the contracted funds somewhere by EUR 110 million during the reporting period. In total, by 31 December 2018, EUR 1.27 billion and 99.7% of the allocations amounting to EUR 1.28 billion were agreed. Based on this data we have seen in this report, based on the information we receive from the field, can we be considered successful in withdrawing funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds? Generally, it can always be more, we see that the trend in the growth of the withdrawal of these funds, but it is still insufficient and the sea and can be better, but we need to be more successful, it is easy to say, we need to create actual assumptions and possibilities of quality action in this area, from the very preparation of projects, from further help in applying these projects and really ensure quality people to be able to monitor and assist in the realisation of these projects. Here, and something more concrete will surely be my colleague Batinić, who himself faces these very problems in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142171	Thank you, Vice President, honourable secretary of state with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, yes, the fact is that this is what my colleague Makar was talking about now, so, about these six-month periods, these are programs or in some way guidelines that were agreed on long ago. What you'd like to look back at in your part, that's primarily what's waiting for us, and that's a new financial perspective. From these reports it is visible and we can speak in general and it always raises the question of how successful we are at attracting and withdrawing funds, it is agreed and paid and what is in between. The fact is that a certain part of the legislative regulation has changed in part, especially as regards regional development, as regards the development index, however, what cannot be read from these reports and is neither ultimately possible nor the objective, and in my view, we should certainly take care of what European money is used for. When operational programs have been defined, here, of course, every operational programme has its own goal, so they have their names and what is being achieved with them. I'm also pulling the parallel, we've had the same thing, and we still have laws that define certain areas like mountain-mounted areas, such as islands, and if you can identify it with operational programmes, I'd also find it very interesting to believe and signify and help all of us, especially those who conduct, you in the ministry, how successful it is to achieve an index of development or some other parameter of a particular environment that has run and received a specific project to finance European money. That would be very interesting, however, unfortunately not being followed. Furthermore, in this period and the reports, we ourselves see that we have certain problems and difficult circumstances in the very withdrawal of that money to say that in realisation. Whether there are certain moments that we have imposed ourselves as administrative barriers to say so and whether we can make them easier or simply remove them in the new financial perspective. When we look at the intermediate body side by side, and all these procedures from the very idea and the realization of the project, so there's not just one shareholder, there's several segments covered. The fact is, we are also facing certain problems right now as far as implementation itself is concerned, in realisation. From the design of the project, project documentation, designers, there is no deficit because you have to wait a few months to a year you could realize or create a major project for some kind of object, whether it is a kindergarten, if it is something else. As regards the realisation itself, prices have increased dramatically and there is also a lack of construction operations, construction operations or the lack of those who will implement the project itself and the implementation is defined by certain deadlines. Of course, neither the ministry nor we can influence these things, but I say, it can be like something that is certainly projected in the next financial perspective programmeically viewed by the Republic of Croatia, should try to prevent these things from happening. Furthermore, valorisation and not only quantification but also qualifications of certain projects, which they have ultimately to do, which they will gain because the fact is through one part of the operational programmes, everything has been financed, and what was in the strategic documents of local self-government or regional and what was not. Unfortunately, certain things worked according to the model, yeah, that's the possibility, I'm going to do it and why, why, what I can and what I need, which is vital, for a better standard of citizens, for some other things that are priority, there's just no money for it. And then I go and spend my own resources, my own participation, my own resources for something that is not my priority because I can only run for European money. So that's when it comes to planning, strategic documents and valorisation of existing strategies by the competent authorities, whether it can be run, whether you can run as a local self-government or regional or no matter who. So, the fact is that there is not much time, but I think it can be done through certain documents and through the preparation of operational programmes, that, of course, there is always a question of what Europe will approve of, but I don't think it's a problem in Europe, perhaps not as much as it wants to be shown, is more of a problem in ourselves. I don't think we know our priorities yet, our priority lines in which direction, which and how we want and how we want to use European money. I think we have to go off on our own in that part. As for these reports, of course, and colleagues said, we will support HNS, but I would like that if, of course, you will be enabled and, as far as the time is concerned, to try to look at these reports briefly and the quantification and qualification of projects through operational programmes, it would be very interesting because through some operational programmes, it is funded so that a broad beauty, I would not want to use one worse name but one by ourselves in HNS, so a wide range of possibilities are given and, of course, it turns out that someone who has an index of development cannot run higher because it gets too many points and does not look at the fiscal capacity independently of a local self-government's development index, whether it can realise something that is of strategic interest, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142172	Thank you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142173	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, please pause for 2 minutes on behalf of the MOST Club to consult with colleagues at the club and to warn the Croatian public about reports on the use of European funds, for three reports on this agenda point. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is no minister of honor here today. Today in 2019, we've already been using European for 5 years and only 17% of the real funds have crossed Bregan. What's divorced from these reports is that 618 million and according to the resolution ministry's answers are actually irregularities. We are constantly aware that the system is not well managed because the system does not prevent and does not have sufficient measures, there are irregularities of €618 million under the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion. There is a fundamental reform of public administration, a reform that will ensure the professionalisation of services, digitisation, and also create a new model of territorial reconstruction because such fragmentation does not correspond to the fiscal capacity of each unit of local self-government, nor do we have so many expert personnel on the ground. And I'd also ask the Ministry of Resort, how many irregularities were actually committed, not only to OLAF but to the DORH? Is it really possible that so many public procurements in which those operating the public procurement procedure themselves cannot write or adapt specifications without favouring a particular producer? Today Croatia is facing itself after 5 years with double criteria for the system and for users. Long deadlines, delayed competitions and procedures and evaluations, problems are systems, so please pause. two minutes on behalf of the MOST Club to consult with my colleagues. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142174	Thank you very much. For consulting, you have until 11:30 and we'll meet here at 11:30. It's 11:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142175	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Mrs Vesna Pusic will speak in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The theme is reports on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds for the second half of 2017 and the whole of 2018 broken in two reports, therefore for the first and the second half. Many of the topics that we are talking about here de facto may be the most significant report for the second half of 2018, because there is also some information about the total use of funds in different stages, so from contracts to actual payments to end-users. So how much has been done by the end of last year in this financial period or in this EU budget as regards Croatia. The total funds for the four operational programmes, I'll talk about it, first of all, about these four operational programmes, not so much about what is actually the end of jobs from earlier periods, these are pre-accession funds, so of the four operational programs that are now on the agenda and something about the geographical distribution of the use of funds that I think should be the alarm bell, but also the warning that there needs to be some repair, help, introduce some new mechanisms to use these funds for what de facto are all expensive and this is a more uniform development. So the total allocations for the four operational programmes in this EU budget from 2014 to 2020 are 10 billion 727 million euros. Without any competition, absolutely the most significant operational programme is competitiveness and cohesion. And I think it's important to keep that in mind because when you look at each other then some averages can be a little clouded by the real situation. So competitiveness and cohesion or operational programme competitiveness and cohesion on this wastes cca. 70% of allocated funds for Croatia, 79% are in competitiveness and cohesion and 30% are in everything else. And so it is clear that everything agreed on in the area of competitiveness and cohesion as expressed in percentages is more money than anything agreed in any other operational programme. For the illustration alone, I will say, and to those figures I will return 10% of competitiveness and cohesion is 683m euros, 10% of maritime and fishing is 25m euros. So we know that the percentages are percentages and absolute amounts are absolute amounts. So competitiveness and cohesion turns out to be what we first need to look at. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Therefore, the percentage of the agreed funds in the area of the largest, i.e. the one covering 70% of the total money put at the disposal of the Republic of Croatia in that area, was less agreed in 2018 than the second half of 2017 in the reporting period. The second observation, the table does not show the jumps described in the text, i.e. progress in the contract and payment. Especially not seen where there's the most money. In the text both in media and in the presentation here, we are talking about major leaps in the use of funds, but the tables do not support it. If you look at what the tables look like, you can't see that progress, especially when it comes to competitiveness and cohesion, so the biggest pile to say money or sums of money, that would require some clarification. And my third point is to say, therefore, that it is particularly interesting that this part of the report relating to the end of 2018, so to the second half of 2018, at the end of the 5th of the 7 years of the contractual period, and I know that there is this famous N+3 but at this point new funding will come, it will have to be presented and run new programmes, it will have to administer new funds and new programmes. So all that ends here would be good to end especially in terms of contracts, deals, so, at the end, 5 out of 7 years, 61% of allocated funds were agreed, so those funds that are available to us. 18.5% of the total amount was paid, 17% were confirmed and 15.9, let's say 16% were paid. So at the end of 5, from 7 years, to people who do these projects in fact, and who should have some effects that citizens who should see some of these results are out of 10 billion, 10 billion and 700 million euros, and some million euros, see 16%. It's just people, too little. This is too little, not only after 5 years, to call it success, but also too little to have the effect it should have, and this is a more uniform regional development, and it is somebody who creates a positive climate and a positive experience of Croatian membership in the EU, and it is really not Europe's fault. For that, imagine that we are now in a situation where we have at least 30, not to say, 50% of the funds paid to us, which would also mean equality of development, and also for development in general, given the four areas where these operational programmes are located. I did a little comparing the percentages used at different stages, so phases are agreed, paid, certified and confirmed. At different stages of the implementation of these programmes, these three reporting periods. As far as the contract is concerned, I am looking primarily at this fund, i.e. an operational programme covering 70% of the total funds, which is competitiveness and cohesion. In the second half of 2017, 17.5% of the funds were agreed, 10.33% of the funds and 13.24% of the funds were agreed in the first half of 2018. So in the second half of 2017, more than 70 percent of the money or roughly over 7 billion euros was agreed on by far the most. Done, which I think we also need to keep in mind, found in 2017 from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, 2017 second half, 3.9, let's say 4%, first half 2018. 1.4%, second term 0.4%. It's real life. That's what people feel, see, and that's real means, like I said, 10% of competitiveness and cohesion is 680 million euros, 10% of maritime and fishing is 25 million euros. Therefore, you can have fantastic percentage results in maritime and fishing, in absolute terms, these are small amounts of money. And now that we look at everything, according to all four operational programmes, 12.44% of the funds were agreed in 2017, so in the second half of 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 12.46% of the funds in the second half of 2018. 14.57% of the funds. There, people dear don't see any dramatic leap you're talking about, it's more or less the same percentages agreed over 3 periods, so you don't see any dramatic jumps. There are some skydivings in the funds, and there are also certified funds, but all for these small funds, so all within the funds that all together cover 30% of the funds. In the largest fund of competitiveness and cohesion, which covers 70% of the funds, there is no such thing. Therefore, it was found in the last half-year, at the second half of 2018 0.4% of the funds were allocated. A few words, you just have to look at it realistically so that we can get better. A few words on the regional allocation of funds and projects. If you look at four operational programs, and very unequal in some situations, it's amazing. For example, rural development until 31.12.2018. the largest percentage of funds in Osijek-Baranja County, but the second for rural development is the City of Zagreb. While he's, for example. Požeško-Slavonska County 17th, that apropo development program Slavonia, 17th in rural development, is even Zagreb City in fisheries 4, unlike Dubrovnik and Sibenik-Knin County which are 8 and 9. So, there are some very unusual things, there should be an obvious acceleration of all aspects, and in particular the negotiation of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, the assistance to the counties and units of local self-government in the design and reporting of projects, the same model of payment and reporting towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or to the Ministry as it exists towards the EU and the responsibility for the funds it manages and deploys to the EU institutions should be borne by the Ministry, not by the end-user. The end-user should be held accountable to the ministry that has to monitor and control him and then we will not come into these situations where we were and we are now to be suddenly of the end-users. user uses to ask for money back. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142177	Now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn to speak in front of the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142178	The Honorable Chairman of the way in which our country is managed is not satisfactory, and it is evidence that people are fleeing Croatia and moving out. However, our Prime Minister Plenkovic does not see it, he claims he is a successful prime minister and is leading Croatia in the right direction. However, a question should be asked if he considers it the right direction, whether it is also the right direction for all other citizens. However, our prime minister even defeats his own party in the elections shows the public as actually a success and claims that he is indeed his own leader in the right direction, although voters have spoken and condemned his policy. It's undeniable and it's facts. The way Croatia participates in the EU, the way in which, without object, we give money to Bianca and we pay in the budget, and we get it back on a lot of terms if so, etc. It is not satisfactory, and the fact is that we are at a disadvantage with the EU. I must again point out that, regardless of the funds from these bountiful funds, the economic exploitation of our country is under way and only the payment of interest and the principal of these loans to banks and the same EU we give 40 billion kuna annually. So, we give 20 Peljek bridges every year to pay off our external debt and because of the liquidity coming out of Croatia, because the money disappears from Croatia and the 100th reason we have internal unemployment and indifference, blockades, etc. What we are discussing in this assembly is not actually the process of making money, it is not the process of getting money out of Croatia, but we are just dealing with the issue of the distribution of some allocations that are truly miserable. See how much the EU gives for migrants coming from third-world countries as far as we get in Croatia, how much our man gets. I disagree with that policy, we reject this policy from the Living Wall, we do not accept that policy from the Living Wall, and we will fight hands and feet against it as long as we live. I want to say that at this time, there will be some new Messiah who will again speak to the people about honesty and justice within this system. We will say that it is possible to make changes within this system with various reforms. At times, it was said by Bozo Petrov, someone else says it today, and many people believe him. But the question is, will they eventually be disappointed? From the experience we have seen with Boza Petrov, the experience we have seen with HDZ and SDP policy is not clear that there is no solution within this system. But the problem isn't in the human affairs, I mean, it's secondary and humane, but I mean, the primary problem is that our country is being ruled as a colony, which our country is managed as a protectorate, which is that 70% of the laws that come into the House come from Brussels are said by Mrs. Shuica herself, and we don't actually have a chance to decide about them at all. However, I would like to point this opportunity to the courageous act of a young soldier. His name is Vladimir Plavsa. His name is Vladimir Plavsa. He was called to the Military Court because he dared speak out publicly that the Croatian government is puppetite, that decisions are not made in Zagreb, that the interests of Croatian citizens are not protected, but that the interests of Washington and Brussels are protected, or that our army is fully committed to NATO's service of the pact, that instead of the Croatian border, it is on the Russian border, that instead of Croatian interests it is fighting for others. He said he was not satisfied with the policy, said the salaries were in the army of miserable and that the soldiers were leaving. And then Ivane, I no longer see the point of serving in this army and this kind of army, under this command, under this kind of command system and told me, Ivane, I quit my army. However, he did not send his words after leaving the army but remained for a short time until he left, and I still think for 2 months or a month, however, he was invited to the Military-Steering Court. At the Military Court, the President of the Council will be Colonel Vesna Niksic and what is really the goal of this process, in my court is to intimidate him, the aim is to act on other young soldiers not to speak, the goal is to act on their silence, the aim is to act, in my court, to keep their conscience quiet under the threat of punishment. I would like to say on this occasion that the methods of intimidation will not succeed in suppressing the rebellion in the Croatian Army, but here we are not talking about armed rebellion, here we are talking about the rebellion of the spirit, about the rebellion of consciousness, about the rebellion of the mind because simply the mind of those soldiers who are taught to listen, simply and to them the mind tells them "people don't do this anymore", as the voters said in the elections to Andrej Plenkovic, that's what the people who leave the Republic of Croatia say every day. I call here from this pay phone all the pores of our society, all the groups, from soldiers, intervention officers who are forced to perform actions, officers in the FINA who conduct the tasks, judges who are forced to bring solutions actually on the evictions, even though they know that loans are invaluable and that the state itself is in irreparable loans and state officials who are forced to actually mortify people, e.g. Those who work in the tax administration, to see that this system of service is not leading anywhere, that the EU is leading us to a final disaster, to the decommissioning of the state and to the decommissioning of our statehood, and not to a better tomorrow, a happier future and a better standard of living with EU funds. For this reason, my conscience would not be calm if I supported this report because I believe it did not meet what was the basis, and the basis was what they told us Croats when we entered the EU, they told us that we would have a higher standard of living, that we would have European salaries, that we would have lower prices. However, instead of European wages and lower prices, there was a first blow in terms of the collection of communals, electricity, water, gas, heating, all went 20%, tolls were collected 20%, shipping was collected, or transport by boat lines 20%, it also increased, food prices, eventually, some taxes were imposed, among other things, were raised to 25%, there was a sales tax on people who bought the first real estate, there was an increase in the imposing of people who were engaged in tourism or residence tax, all in all things, there was no actually social category to which the government had not hit, and the growth of salaries and pensions that occurred at the same time was not even roughly in the correlation with the price increase, especially the prices of apartments, such as in Zagreb, where a family which is not able to have a permanent job. or their wages are low, there's really no more where to pay the rent, and there's been more and more of us calling tenants who have nothing to pay the rent from and actually hanging around their necks. Instead of allowing funds from EU funds to build apartments for our people, for our people, to stay in this country, the puppet and managed government seems the opposite, not only gives young people, our citizens, to come to real estate, or to rent it cheaply, but EU funds to migrants and asylum seekers from third-world countries give everything on the plate, give them free accommodation, pay them direction, give them all possible rights and privileges, which, in doing so, deny their own people. I call on the Croatian people to put an end to this madness and in the elections to rebel against Andrej Plenkovic, against HDZ, against all their coalition partners whom the people have ruled in the elections, and simply to this government, this servant and this humiliation of the Croatian man who is forced to dig through the garbage to survive, stand to the end. Yesterday I was crossing the road, I saw a man selling street lamps, he's homeless, he's actually begging on the street, he asked for it at the same time as our military or state spends millions on a military mission in Afghanistan, while our prime minister is offering a solution to the Ukrainian crisis, and there's no solution to the homeless problem in Zagreb, this homeless crisis is going to get worse and worse as time goes by in winter, then trams and buses will be filled with them. Of course, Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't care, he doesn't care about the rows in front of the soup kitchen, he's not even disturbed by the calls of the family who parted from his loved ones, who does the naked existences are forced to leave the Republic, instead he represents himself as a great statesman, and we see that he can't even lead his own party, he presents himself as a great politician like Nero before he drank the poison when he said before drinking the opening "ah, the world today is losing a great artist" because he was, believed for himself, that he was a great artist, and probably Mr. Plenkovic, if even one day, and the question only time, would be forced to go will surely say "ah, the world has lost a great politician", and now the corrupt and controlled media that he manages the ruling furniture, will then try to present some new Plenkovic as a solution, as they have shown Jadranka Kos and Karamarka. Of course, all the media are covering it because they want to cover up the HDZ election defeat. All that I'm saying, I'm saying primarily for the sake of young people, hoping that they'll open their eyes and heart to the truth, for justice, and that they'll rebel against the system of unfair authority, against the pyramid of power that we're not at the head of at HS because unfortunately political power is no longer in the Republic of Croatia, HS is a puppet show, and we're actually drawn into it by participating in it. But what I can say is that myself and my colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, and my other colleague Branimir Bunjac, will never be co-workers of the puppet government, we will always speak the truth and we will fight a conspiracy aimed at our country and subversion, in fact whose aim is to lose our national identity, our citizens' pride and their dignity. I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic if he has a conscience and had to resign. Not at the head of HDZ, it is my desire to continue leading HDZ to ruin, it is my desire to resign as prime minister and call new elections because it has lost every credibility politically. You know that, I know that. Partners who support him in the Parliament, such as Milanka Opačić, Mr Tomislav Sauche, etc. So-called The chips in Milan Bandic's pocket as well as Milan Bandic himself who received fewer votes than Milorad Pupovac no longer have any political weight. In the election, the people rejected the political trade of the worst guy. However, I am aware that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has no conscience and morals and will not do so. Because if he had any conscience, he would admit that this majority who is in the assembly is not the majority chosen by the people, that he is supported by the people currently in the Parliament who were elected to fight HDZ but who have moved to his side, they will argue like gentlemen from the HNS and their Vrdoljak for the sake of the Croatian future, etc. I believe, however, that those who speak them do not believe in these things. Get up, people of Croatia. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142179	You should admit that on two occasions, even if you mentioned the points of the agenda that you were supposed to discuss, which is on your average, so I didn't interrupt you. Please. [[Intruder Pernar: Thank you.]] We now welcome students and students of the professional school from Gospić. Thank you for being with us today and please give a round of applause for our visitors. Let's move on with the debate and Mr. Tomislav Zhagar will speak in front of the club of Independent Representatives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142180	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The first question we can ask is whether this topic is important, God help you ask who in the Republic of Croatia this topic is important today. Those who should be safe is important to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because this report that we have in front of us today, it is so imagined that every half year it shows the dynamics of the withdrawal of funds, all that is in the EU funds, it can give us that information and the speed of withdrawal. However, what is more important is that he can give us the state of our administration, so our public administration and units of local self-government so our territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia. If we start at the end of the report, one very important point is to strengthen the system and increase the efficiency of the implementation of European Structural Investment Funds. Generally, when we read this text on one page, then we see that the underlying problem is listed as an insufficient number of people employed in the administration and related to certain operational programmes. My question for the government's representatives is how much people in the Republic of Croatia are doing today to attract funds from EU funds. We can say that EU funds are important for three categories. First, of course, investment in infrastructure, so all that is based on public budgets, all that raises the quality of life in certain environments from smaller to larger projects. And the other thing is to strengthen the competitiveness of our entrepreneurship. And the third thing, of course, is the local self-government unit, which they do, which is actually a good part of the local self-government unit that hasn't withdrawn any kuna from the funds, from the EU funds. My colleague Čičak, I think he's the president, now it's called the Croatian Association of Municipalities, he didn't believe when I said, I showed the article, I think 32 cities in both this article and the media, 32 cities in the Republic of Croatia did not withdraw any kuna funds. The situation is serious. We can fool ourselves, we can cut hair. And it's not, of course, that the situation isn't hopeless, it's getting rid of it, it's kind of going to get skewed, we're not going to withdraw the funds, somehow we're going to drag them, somehow we're going to get them to say it. But believe me, I'll smoke when he pulls a cigarette if the tobacco is wet, it's hard, it's not going, it's stuck somewhere. To us, the problem is, I would like to see a representative of the government, the secretary of state, tell them what happened to the conversation you had, I don't know if you led or Minister Coric with representatives of the municipal companies who are complaining because now the ministry wants to impose on them that they pay the fines for the procedures they have issued, which they received advice from the ministry, and then they were warned that it was not, say, the selection of a supervisory engineer, the Varko company from Varazdin, they should pay 20 or 30 million kuna fines because they listened to one resolute ministry and the other said that it could not go so and have to pay the fines. It's not the only company, some say it'll even end up in a blockade, whether it increases the price, actually the price of water. Second thing since '67. The problem is that the subcontractors in the competition that was published the problem is in the dumping prices, now that each other is leaving the construction site, the situation is talking, of course it is the railway Long Sele towards the Križevci and towards Koprivnica and this railway that is practically finished the railway of St. Ivan Žabno-Vrbovec, pardon the construction of St. Ivan Žabno, the railroad was made, there went surveillance, they found I don't know 50 cracks, it's not a matter of determining still this technical review, this technical review is extremely demanding. So these are the things that happen every day, and directly affect the state of withdrawal of funds from EU funds and not only that, it puts us in danger that we will recover funds from EU funds. So, not what we're paying 40 million euros a year now, when we add these up in 7 years, and what we're going to withdraw is not exactly negligible money, but for our Croatian opportunities it's all about us, we've learned everything is a bagatella, it's not even a big amount, so we're frying 17 billion on pensions for which we don't have money from the pension system. We give that money. The government of the Republic, we must stress that, the government of the Republic gives pensions to those who have not earned them, gives, gifts, takes from citizens money and gifts. That should be made clear. That money is gone that's 17 billion kunas every year, times 5 years here's the amount we need to withdraw from the European Funds without this minus our payments, if we're the net recipients as the minister says. And it isn't, of course, now that I'm saying that the situation is serious that things aren't good, at least I think I'm just criticizing this government. It's been a long time, a lot hasn't been done so far, no need to cry, but you need to hire people. Secretary of State do you know how many people at this point in the Republic of Croatia are working on these jobs, but not only are you talking, we've hired these, we've been changing the law here, so I told the minister then, the prime minister I think he's even angry, if one government says he's talking to local self-government units, so what do these local self-government units do, I'm not accusing them, but then help them to speed things up to work properly. The truth is that many, many of the projects that are planned, they, I hope they are, I couldn't get to the register, maybe you can comment on it is the Central Register of Development Projects, I guess he should have some keys to access because he's not available to the public or, maybe I didn't know how to find it. Many of these projects are determined by the political will of the so-called regional co-ordinators of therefore development agencies, and this is my personal position on why the problem is generally with EU funds, is weakly going to the ground where it would be seen directly what are the priorities, which are the projects needed to develop the economy first and then to raise the quality of life in many, many environments. We will probably be able to do a lot of other things by the end and this financial perspective with rule n+3, but the next financial perspective should be prepared again, people should be actively working on it, and without clear, without a clear vision, without a clear strategy that we want to achieve it will not be good. And it's not good if we say this information that today our emigrants are paying each year, or in seven years, they're going to pay far more according to CNB's data, it's just them, those transactions that are recorded, somewhere around 17 to 18 billion of our emigrants are being paid into accounts in the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's far more money than we can withdraw from the EU, and we can't do this job well because our systems don't work. And now finally let me explain what, when we talk about local self-government units, everyone involved. It's not people's fault because the system just doesn't work. I can't have them, someone wrote, I think on these portals dealing with economic issues, it's like playing a game, and the judge in the game changes the rules, and then he whistles and says this has been a violation now he's not, so it happens to our entrepreneurs when they apply to these projects. The procedure should certainly be made easier, something has been done. We need all people who want to deal with this and who have to deal with it to make it possible for the higher level of education, and people who are directly through regional coordinators involved in these activities through development agencies to the ministry to go more on the ground and see what people really need, because here we are, and I'm going to give two examples from my county right now. One is a system of irrigation Capinci – the village, be careful we can't build a irrigation system to just plant corn after, no it won't work, it's not worth it. Or the restoration of castles, it is clear to everyone that it is beautiful, that the castles are restored, but where are they, where is it, where is it crucial where jobs are? And now another thing that appears in public, I want to emphasize it here, because I, I don't have, to say like this, have clean hands like the prime minister said, someone said, I see that in public often declares that pre-war deals are bigger than privatisation, what nonsense, it's a lie. Privatisation is the biggest robbery in the Republic of Croatia, pre-war deals are based on when money is already drawn from the company, and also with lex Agrokora it is not in itself problematic but everything that happens around it in the system. And those are the things to think about. The biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia is the lack of a job and inadequately paid job. They're not the problem, either. They're blocked. They're the executive law. Look at the little structure, so most of these people are less, less than 10,000 kunas in debt and that's according to the teleopers, so the serious state solves it like this. But why, the problem is these people are out of business, they'll handle it themselves. Let's work and make these funds work for the development of the economy above all. Of course, infrastructure is important for the economy to develop, but it's also at company headquarters we see this data published by FINA, we see where the headquarters of successful companies are, so where the infrastructure is developed, where there's traffic connections, so it won't be safe for someone to come to me for an hour to walk around tractors and stuff and cultivators to get to the first highway, then the minister comes here from the police, and now you'll see now that you're still paying the fine because some cop got up on his left leg and that day seemed to him that you illegally bypassed the tractor. Of course, no one accusing the police nor, everyone should do their job, but everyone in the republic should think that everyone should have equal rights and that we can, that we should all be equal before the law and equal citizens of this country, and first of all, in retreat because if we look at all the indicators and the CNB that did this statistical, in fact the poll concerning the introduction of the EUR, then we see here in Slavonia is low payed by the EUR, people don't save, of course, if they don't have them, the most Eurosceptics is right in Slavonia. Why? People don't see the benefits of it, that's the key, people don't see the benefits, and they don't see the benefits because the Slavonia and Baranja project is weak, let's say that it's also a pyr, but let's say that there's the most, there's the most authentic projects that are related to water supply and disposal, but there's going to be problems if many of them are pre-named so that we don't come into a situation that we really have to pay back. I mean, as far as the report is concerned, I don't have that grudge, the report is what it is, you can't write it any different than it is, the dynamics are increasing, but I have to say this little bit right now and in a joke, yet Christiano Ronaldo in Juventus pulls more money than we in the EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142181	We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Ivan Lovrinović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The topic we are talking about is very important, and I think that in the Croatian public, the media, one of the most mentioned words, or syntagms, these are the EU funds, the European Funds, the withdrawal of EU funds, the funds, and only the EU funds will save us. You see, as a serious politician and a scientist, as a university professor, I've prepared well for this presentation, and we change Croatia, we don't like to tell jokes, make a circus in this HS, we're talking about arguments, so our Committees on Finance and Economy, so they've thoroughly analyzed the use of structural and investment funds within the so-called so-called economy. EU cohesion policy. What is this, respected citizens, about? Well, it is about the EU funds being a rescue solution not only for the Republic of Croatia, but for all those countries below the EU's average of standards and development of GDP. Let me remind you, when the Republic of Croatia entered the EU on 1 July 2013, we were 61% at 61% of the standard of living, as you will, on average means the EU. Until today, we have fallen from 61% to 59%, so now the question is how can this and previous governments explain to the people, and they kept saying, enter the EU, it will be better, you will see progress, how that the Republic of Croatia has fallen and under us today is only Bulgaria, and the way things are, will be relatively prestigious. These are hard, terrible things, this requires simple explanation and responsibility, so whoever was saying we're going from first to second to fourth speed, we see, we're going backwards. Now let's talk about arguments for people to see, so how much is this fund they have, what is the common EU fund, gentlemen, it's EUR 137 billion, and you know how much it is? 1% of the total GDP of 28 EU member states or about 2% of all state budgets, all EU members, to make it even more clear to you, is slightly less than the budget of one Austria or one Belgium. Now I'm asking you here as an economist, university professor and politician, so can the EU, with so little resources, meet needs, appetites, so many less developed countries than Portugal, meaning Greece, Spain, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, so... He can't, he can't. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why did I stop here? So give people, especially you from the government gentlemen, so you don't have your own policies, you send a message to citizens, businesses, join the EU funds. Why? So you have no policy, no investment policy, no economic policy, no funds, and there are funds in domestic accumulation, Croats alone have about 25, about 200 billion kuna. About 18 billion kunas we have foreign exchange reserves, gentlemen, and in that accumulation, other countries are developing, but there is no speech in this HS because this HS is composed as it is, the negative selection is and there is no average citizen here, you can't tell him anything new, but only from here come the bad laws. Now, what do I want to say? Look, how this government or its prime minister deceives the public, and after he says so, then all ministers repeat. Here, he said the following, first to quote from your report, on 31 December 2018. It has been agreed, therefore, of the total EUR 10.73 billion available, which is true, EUR 6,63 billion has been agreed. You know what "contract" means? From what you've agreed, which will be realized, it's heaven and earth. Well, this government, with its Slavonia project, has more sown contracts, corn and wheat are no longer sown, and from Slavonia and Baranja people are running away, it's eye caressing, but here's the data. So, of the EUR 10.7 billion at our disposal, how much is agreed, 6.6 billion, but I'm only interested in one and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia how much has been withdrawn and paid? You know how much? 1.7 billion EUR 15.96% of what is available, which is why we are the last country in the EU after the withdrawal of the European Funds, people, and that is true, this is the truth that I am saying, but what do you hear? Here you can hear the following, here's an excerpt from Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's speech, which I am referring to, on the Ministry of Finance's report, he said that Croatia paid 19.7 billion kuna into the European budget from 1 July 2013 to 1 April 2019. So that's how much we've paid effectively. And he goes on to say, while we received 34.1 billion kuna from the EU at the same time, he says further, which would mean we're positive, plus 14.4 billion kuna, point. As a university professor, a serious man, I'm not going to call him a liar, I'm going to say he's telling a lie. So listen to the data now. From this data that you said today, that we withdrew 1.7 billion kuna, this euro, it amounts to you, gentlemen 12.7 billion kuna. So where's the difference between these 34 he mentions, 34.1 and 12.7 kuna, 12.7 billion kuna. So Prime Minister Plenkovic said, without blinking, that Croatia received another 21.4 billion kuna, which is not true, gentlemen. I call on him to face me on television, to bring in the data and explain why he misinformed the Croatian public because if you wrote in the official report that we only withdrew 12.7 billion, that it was paid, and he says 34.1 billion kuna, so that's the difference in 21.4 billion kuna, someone here is misinformed. Have you then come to lie to us in the face? That you're lying to all Croatian citizens? And why is he manipulating himself? Well, this government's been running PR politics all along. Well, she just cares about being positive, so every day we hear that some new jobs are arranged, so how does it end up being agreed on 125% more than is available? Here, gentlemen, this is a policy of deception and manipulation. Please here, all of you in the Parliament, come out, deny this information that I have provided. Discard, please. Here, I'm begging you. Therefore, the service report, most interestingly, this quote was signed by the Government, you are sitting here today on behalf of the Government, and Mr Plenkovic, so he is cheating on us. I'm not going to talk any further, it doesn't make any sense, I'm going to stop here, I'm going to ask the government, on behalf of the party to change Croatia, serious people, citizens, please explain why you're manipulating us that we've got 21 billion kuna more? Therefore, Croatia has made more payments, there is already, it is losing and relative to payments to the EU budget. That's the truth and one final thing. It is dominantly spent on infrastructure from EU funds, and this is necessary. And what does cohesion mean? It means the pursuit of balanced development, that we have an economic, technological one, is marginally invested. That way we'll never get to the average, gentlemen. Because you, like in that Starving Games, are tied to the race for the EU funds, you have no economic policy, you have no strategy, you are totally addicted and that is why you have to listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142183	The replica was sought by Mr. Bunzak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142184	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović. So we see from this report that EU funds have been paid less than we have invested in EU funds. So we have essentially a minus, we're talking about paid funds, not agreed, and finally I wonder why this report hides information about people who worked on so-called. the competitions both in their justice and in the funds spent on these people, so obviously it was about tens of thousands of people who cost the state budget even more, which all points to the fact that we have far, far more spent than we have received from the EU money, and at the same time that money we have received, we have to spend on what is in the EU's interest, not what is our priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142185	Here you are, Mr. Lovrinović, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142186	Dear colleague Bunjac, thank you for this question. So here, let me give you some concrete examples. Unfortunately, EU funds have also become a means of party policy. So we hear on the ground that the most people who are now in power, their acquaintances, etc., which is not mildly correct. From what we got, gentlemen, it's, as I said, 12.7 billion, which is paid, 60% at least goes to the paying of import goods, for construction and sewerage and plumbing, means imports of goods and consulting services, 60%. So watch which of us they make poor people of us, and they assure us that they are developing us. And the other thing, farmers in five years isn't... 3.34 billion kunas have not been paid by the state, and it was mandatory under contract with the EU because they paid EU farmers, and the state did not pay 3.34 billion kuna in 4 years and that is why our agriculture [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On your feet, on your knees. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] On your knees, actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142187	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. esteemed representatives of the ministry with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said in today's debate. Yeah, things are going a little bit better, but the dynamics and the speed that we're responding to all those demands that are set before us is simply something that we can't be satisfied with. That's not what I'm saying, it's facts and data. Regardless of the shifts, the fact is that after 5 years of financial perspective from 2014-2020, if we take the date of 31.12.2018, then we can say that the situation with the use of EU funds is bad. Croatia is the last on the list of countries according to the means provided if we look at the data as of 1 February 2019, we are on the very beginning of the contract and by the total funds paid, specifically by the funds paid if we compare ourselves with other EU countries, we are the last and as we talk about the agreed, then we are the last, only Spain is behind us. We are also lagging behind on paid funds compared to the European average, or the average of EU member states. The problems are significant and this should not be a doctor of science or a special expert in this work in order to understand what the problems are. The first problem is for sure I will say the two-year political instability of the previous government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, as well as the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, in a way until the coming out of MOST and the government itself, and we have lost 2 years in preparation, negotiation and implementation of the projects. And that's something to say, so it's the product of political instability, political turmoil. Secondly, certain qualified management personnel in the structures of the government and the ministries have been replaced, and of course there has also been a re-stalking in that work and this has not led to any more significant excerpts in a positive sense because if it were then we would not be at the very beginning among the EU members using the European funds, these 3 categories specifically as I have said. The fact is that regardless of the number of employees and who work on European funds, I will tell you so much in the system itself, there is still an insufficient number of professional people specialising in this area and the last three reasons but not less important, even what we have the opportunity to hear from the end users, perhaps even the most important, and this is the slow preparation of new, special large infrastructure projects, slow implementation of previously agreed projects and what we are talking about in this report when we talk about irregularities, it is a lack of transparency of the system, avoiding expected public pressure for greater efficiency. I'll stick around when we talk about these three parts of the dispute, preparing new special major projects, slowing down the implementation of previously agreed projects and less transparency on one segment that I know, which I'm very much following, which is the Ministry of Science and Education. It is the microcosm from which we can see what is actually happening in Croatia, more or less in some other ministries, depends on what extent. First of all, it's amazing that ex-ante is a condition for withdrawing funds for a system of education where we are crucial in fact two operational programs and these are competitiveness and cohesion on the one hand and effective human potentials on the other hand, so... and ESIF funds, ex ante is a condition of course as for most other operational programmes, the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2014, too, we had a major problem when, due to the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Administration, we were given the yellow light from the European Commission where we were told that we lacked a plan to invest in vocational education and training and that it was not clear from the Science Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament, in which direction this development is going, and we did not want to bring Croatia into the position of the hostages of indetermination, that by 2020 we cannot withdraw, not only the funds but it was, in fact, that the blockade is then reflected on the entire operational programme and 1 and 2, in particular it was a problematic ESF, we were then committed to the European Commission, that through a clear implementation action plan and through the development plan of vocational education and training, we would trade the way of Croatia and prove that we were a serious country and that what we are going to use EU funds, we actually have a basis in the documents behind which the state. Until today, we do not have an action plan to implement the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology. - Mrs. Crescent. The savage simply did not, on the many committees on which we were asking the question, give an answer when it would be brought and whether it would be brought. It's just amazing, I think that in no system in the country of Croatia, at this point it's not happening but at the Ministry of Education. Why do I say that? Then it is possible to use funds, for example, to introduce information against which I personally have nothing, it may be necessary in Croatian schools, but such decisions are not made beyond the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology, they are not made overnight, they are not made in this way. That's one, that's just crazy. Secondly, when we talk about the implementation of projects within the system of science and higher education that are co-financed from... Funds and this is the most relevant to the scientific centres of excellence of infrastructure projects, there is a problem at the speed of project implementation, huge delays are actually created in public procurement processes, primarily due to the unpreparedness of the SAFU, or the Central Agency for the financing of EU programmes and projects and for the implementation of such projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we're saying, maybe we're counting on when we're talking about project preparation and the whole procedure for major infrastructure projects. As a result, we are threatened with the confiscation of part of the asset at the level of the total allocation for each priority if it is proved to be a failure, and the confiscation of funds can have a significant effect on the established performance indicators which, in that case, cannot be achieved and the possibility of a suspension of payment by the European Commission by blocking future calls for grants. The ministry washes its hands, doesn't help the institutions, and tomorrow if this happens, it will blame the institutions themselves who are simply not serviced in the way they should be serviced. That's another big problem. Or maybe the problem is that we may have a hidden intention in some adjustments financially, which is to cut the total funds, which is why the ministry doesn't actually service itself to get out of any responsibility if co-financing isn't secured, if there isn't maybe enough funding for national co-financing of 15%, so there's something that's actually supposed to look completely different. And the third thing that the media has been talking about in the last few days, these are millions of amounts paid for methodical digital manuals, which is Os 3 you seem to me to have priority axis 3, support for full curricular reform. In the 9 months 2018 spent more than 7 million kunas written by one Central HR portal, the money provided for in the EU project paid to teachers working on the preparation of the experiment, paid amounts to only 50% of the work done by the manual will not be made. Why? Because Assistant Minister Lydia King herself said that manuals do not meet the goals and requirements or represent sufficient value for money. But it would not be a problem that something was paid by millions, multimillion amounts, which now turns out not to be good enough, when we talk about European funds, but there is a serious doubt that the same job was paid twice, that there was double funding, on the one hand from the State budget, on the other hand from the EU funds for this particular purpose. And for those who don't know Minister Divjak in that case should be held accountable. Why? Because double funding is not an acceptable cost. This is not an acceptable expenditure under the rules on financial corrections for projects financed from the EU, a project or part of a double-funded project financed from other sources is not an acceptable expenditure. And she brought herself and those people and the state into a very awkward position. This is a story that won't end so quickly will be told much more, but quite an unserious approach, we can and we're used to playing in Croatia to a variety of non-transparent financing, but we need to understand that the EU doesn't keep that, it doesn't hold water there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142189	Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142190	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. So here is the topic which we and how should be much more interested in than what is visible from the presence of our own representatives, but what I would like to particularly point out is that individual representatives want to baffle the actual importance of funds and the fact that, right now in Croatia, 80% of public investment is actually happening precisely from these funds. It is even more surprising that some MPs have failed to convince their voters that what is important to these funds and what can be done and how it is done. What concerns us is that from 2013 on, and the period before that, when it was to be well prepared for the EU accession procedure, so prepare and staff, and all others, so we did not learn enough in that period how to prepare these projects, what they themselves require and how they can be brought to an end quality and without any consequences. What is important is these figures that indeed EUR 6,63 billion was agreed on from EUR 10.73 as allocated in this period 2014 to 2020 and the fact is that 18.48% or EUR 1.98 billion were paid out of it. Is that enough, it's not, we all know, but we need to look at the period since 2013 and in these last 2 years when and how they have tried and tried to actually speed up and process, and also integrate the entire system to give a better result. I can say that from the experience I have in local self-government, unlike those that have never met at all with one project and we know what the big procedure was for us to have an example project, e.g. Here is the Prince's palace that was nominated, which was achieved and which we had done to the end properly, with countless obstacles that should have been removed in walking, and except one of the great obstacles was the question of the performers of the works and the quality of the performers themselves. In the course of the project itself, the competition had to be repeated so that the project could be completed. So, when reading this report, then you have to see how we are all together as citizens, and even as entrepreneurs were ready for such projects and how much care has been taken about how high-quality projects must be prepared so that projects will not happen if a particular project comes into question that they do not end up or that there is a obligation of the local self-government unit to return the entire funds. During the time, here, this government is also a recognised model of integrated territorial investment, that is. The ITU mechanism, which allowed us to, given that we are too small as units of local self-government and our municipalities and cities, is a quality mechanism that has proved very effective and here, we at the level of Croatia have such 7 locations and 7 urban areas. Among other things, there is the city of Zadar with the city of Nina and 13 other municipalities that are part of this ITU mechanism. Why does it matter? Because in this way we are actually uniting all the potentials and capacities of all the units that are interested in such a mechanism and can in this way make very big, big shifts in relation to what they did as small units and then failed to make quality projects or were able to do it on their own. When compared to this ITU mechanism that the Republic of Croatia has had more than 345m euros at its disposal, 303m euros are for regional development and cohesion, and 42m euros from the EU Social Fund, then we see what the potential is. For example. Here's my city, I can say that the ITU mechanism is already signed on the pre-contract that was 2, not full 2 years ago, and that's indicative somewhere around 30 million euros, and when we see that a complete mechanism can be withdrawn up to 530 million kuna, then that and how it solves a large part of the infrastructure and the drain system for the entire western part of the city, and that actually makes the amount that is larger than the one-year budget of the city of Zadar. So that is 85% of the funds that are non-refundable and thus enable further development of our city and other municipalities that are involved in this mechanism and thus, here, there are assumptions, both for the development of tourism but also for the development of an economic branch that will enable us to develop much more quality and much faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142191	Thank you. You have three replicas. The first line was asked for by Mrs. Crescent. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142192	Ma'am. Peric, I'm so glad you mentioned Zadar, who just discovered the funds two years ago, I think. We are the only city, I guess in Croatia that pre-accession funds have withdrawn 0 kunas and you know it very well, you were then the head of finance, it's not your fault, it's politics' fault. Policies that did not correspond to clean accounts, building infrastructure projects and using funds in a transparent manner. We know that Zadar, and after that it was painted on highways, tunnels, known as the crucible of that model, is half-drinking, half-chart I give the city a commission, not a vision, and it took a long, long time for us to realize that the money is no more in the budget, that there's a lot of it being robbed and that the only thing left to do is to work in order, okay, by law, transparently and to use the funds. I'm glad we came to our senses, better before later.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142193	Answer, ma'am. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142194	Well, unlike you, we've been working all along and we can see what we've done. Two years ago, we opened the Prince's Palace, so we discovered these funds long before you knew about them, and what has been done so far has really been done with knowledge and seen with vision, not with unhappiness and ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142195	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142196	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, it is nice to talk about numbers, millions of people, to display as something they will get and what we will benefit from. So I ask you, what good has Croatia achieved? 350 thousand people have left Croatia. We get money from funds mainly for the infrastructure that we're going to have to maintain, cities and municipalities, we're just asking where it's going to be maintained by this huge infrastructure that it's going to make out of these funds. How many jobs have we opened using EU funds? I see they're just serving looks for day-to-day political stuff to brag about, so we pulled this far or we pulled that far. You've been working. You've been working for a while. If you had worked, Croatia would not have been at the bottom of all the indicators according to which it is today, and Stjepan Radić, many years ago, said a wise saying, which he says like this, you plowed him to the one who is waiting for bread from another's bag, as well to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142197	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142198	So if you had looked at some of the statistics and facts shown here on the Ministry of Regional Development page, then you would see that 2017/2018. shows how much it's arranged by county and here it says how much per capital the funds are contracted. So, find your county, see if and exactly what it says here, and when we look at that right here for this part of Croatia's eastern capital is even more agreed than here, for example. in Zadar County where 7164 swears on the head of the population, then we can see that the chances are great is just the question of how successful someone is doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142199	At the end of Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142200	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Peric, your, our government, Minister Maric, the finance minister announced that this government will do everything possible to speed up the draw-up of EU funds and that this will help the growth of the economy and growth of GDP in Croatia. We see that the growth rates are not exactly as planned and one of the main reasons is that you said that you should speed up procedures, shorten procedures and strengthen human capacities, and there you were successful, over 2,000 people are employed, we voted for the need to strengthen human capacities and the result is only contracted and scheduled tenders and paid little or less, just slightly more than 18% and in particular water supply and water management, slightly more than 10%. So we haven't done it yet, and especially from the HSS, it bothers us that the captains on the ground are still looking at the party, so from some ministries, they only get the money where HDZ is in power, so don't do it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142201	Answer, ma'am. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142202	Not true, in the last 2 years, the average growth was 2.7, 2.8, or 3%. Here in this quarter, 3.9. The surplus budget has been achieved, we reduce public debt, the procedures for withdrawing funds are significantly reduced and integrated to make it more successful, so all the problems that exist on the ground are clearly identified, but in 2 years it was obviously done a lot, but the question of how much has not been done before to achieve even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142203	Thank you. Let's move on, Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142204	Thank you very much. I want to say something about a half-yearly report on the use of European Structural Investment Funds because the fact is that today we have a debate here in the Assembly conflict with some theory and practice on the ground, it always comes to a certain level of conflict due to misunderstanding but also the need to constantly highlight several important moments in the use of these funds. First of all, the most important part of how much we pulled and how much we've done in these few years since we joined the EU, i.e. This first financial perspective where we learn about what we have learned in pre-accession funds and try to apply the knowledge we have learned from 2007 to 2013 and when we have had an open learning process as at the time we enter the Union, we can use these funds. And of course, a big attack on everyone who knows everything, I'm going to go a little bit from the ground, given that I have a view from the bottom, but also from this level to see where we may be wrong or not, and why this story doesn't exactly stand like this that experiment is trying to justify its own contribution to better use of European funds. What are the problems? The problems are in the last part of realization, realization and we cannot say today that we have a construction operation that can meet the needs of all the projects that are being implemented today on the ground in 500 local self-government and 20 counties, the city of Zagreb, etc. We simply came to the fact that we have a lot of competitions that we get one and no offers and we come up with that we haven't even started to think about what we're going to charge for. What happened in these few years, we entered in 2013, so in half a year in the EU, we had one government that didn't exactly show up in the first two years at least in the basic part, which is let's call a contest, let's get a deal and start realising something, it was only about 6% of the funds available then because there's always that 10 billion of those borders that we're thinking about that would be good for us to agree on at a 100% amount, and we all kind of deal with it, so after 2 years, another government came along, so it took us a few months and then this government. If we cannot determine the figures and they are very exact, clearly shown in this report, that is why the conclusion of the 2014 Croatian Parliament was clearly set up, we want to know what is happening to the funds and how we use them, how we realise the possibilities because it was sought by parliamentary representatives and ministries every 6 months. brings some figures here, one of the only entry and exit accounts from the treasury is very easy to check to remove all these stories as much as we've charged and how much we've paid for, so there's not a lot of lying, so we can try to make sure that I know better than you, but basically the figures are exact and we know that in these hells, for five years it means a little bit more, full almost 6, so since we're going into the EU, we're getting 14 billion kuna more in the budget than we've paid for it, and that's to be checked, we don't need to have a big debate here. We also know that it's easier to pay for programs with an unaccounted social fund where we'll pay for several thousand people who care for some older people, etc., than to pay for the realized construction of some unclassified road or any other infrastructure project because it takes a few years for you to call the competition first, so while you choose the performer, while he does it all nicely, so you get 50% of the advance, you have to secure everything else yourself, and then you wait for someone to evaluate it all, so if you've done something wrong and you're a little overruled, and you finally did something, but what's most important about it? That benefit we have from the EU, which is more or less attacked here, which is who in the world today, in which an institution can give us 85% of free money, whether it's a bank, whether it's our citizens, whether it's just us here, whether it's local self-government or not, I don't know which other institution. So someone tells us here's 85% of your value and you don't need to give it back. Are you going to use it or not use it? It's your problem. You're writing your own rules. Well, speaking of those rules, we'd be able to conduct a debate about what's acceptable to us in those rules and what might not be acceptable to us. And indeed there are some moments in competitions that we may not need locally or are not acceptable, I don't know why someone who calls them puts them in competitions, probably has some reason. We sometimes don't know what the reasons are. I don't know why I need an environmental impact study, building a building if it's clear that this building doesn't in any way affect the environment, but there's just a procedure and someone's assessing it. Why? Well, that's where we'd be able to argue and if we needed it, if we were going to put it away in some next contest. Here, I recommend that we move things like that because we write the rules ourselves, not the EU. When I realize it, we have an evaluation after the realization and it happens to us that we are obviously somewhere or in a contest or in a realisation we are wrong. And not only in the moment before payment, we have evaluations and a few years after the project is practically released into some function or road or some object that comes to us and asks us, take out all the papers and tell us, prove that everything we paid is what it looks like on the ground. And there may be some problems. But that is why the EU has made it clear, we have a financial perspective of 7 years and it is not enough to give you three more years to realize it. So for 10 years you have the opportunity to use 10 billion euros, it's clear to everyone. And we're half that and a little over half that road. When will it be the highest payoff? Probably in the years to come, on the 20th, 21st, 22rd, 23rd, that's the last year in which we will withdraw some funds from this financial perspective. And you don't have to lie to people or invent data to convince them that someone has no idea about their job. If we're on some 70% of the available funds now. And that's where the state was, when certain rules were laid long ago, I mean right, when it put one big accent on our first financial perspective on major project tasks to build I don't know railways, to build roads, bridges, what's worth, ports, etc. which requires a lot of money and what the state can do in 10 years and what it can charge in 10 years. If we threw everything at small projects, we'd probably have a problem. Why do we have a problem? Because local self-government today has a problem providing their own part of the funds. Someone can help you if you're under the 7th Development Group, you can really get money on a lot of projects. Here I come from an island community, we have so far managed to meet the criteria of only one competition, so we can get back to you at all. So what I'm going to tell myself now is that I didn't do something or I didn't attract enough if I didn't even have a chance to withdraw I don't know how much money. Which is good, which entrepreneurs understand the value of European funds and in their applications are very capable and withdraw the maximum of what they can get for their own facilities, whether it's in tourism, in some industry, etc., but they do it. That's what farmers do, ask them. Let's not just say it like that there's nothing there, there's, there's, there's, there's good people who know and who will and we all still learn about it in many segments. What's the problem? Agglomeration. Very demanding projects involving several local self-governments in order to meet certain criteria at all, so that we can even enter into the process to ensure a system of disposal or water supply at an appropriate level. And there will be problems until 2023, and there must be a full commitment to how to remove what we are in this problem as soon as possible, but also how to secure an operation that can do so. Let's go to all the islands today or wherever these agglomerations are done, we don't arrive in a few months that we have to build to finish at least the shares of such systems. Simply from summer to summer, we have a few months to work in. And that's the problem. This will be a problem in both large cities and in Rijeka and Split and anywhere else where such buildings will be built. So we have problems to solve in walking, we have procedures that can be simpler, and there's a state to say some moments we have to move to make it easier to negotiate. And the evaluation, sometimes the evaluations last us a year from the competitions scheduled. There are still no results I don't know about measure 7.4.1. if I'm not wrong, which should have given someone something in terms of infrastructure and we wait even though we have the funds planned, etc., etc. We can't start. But we have that biggest problem that we're putting forward and we're not getting back, that's all. We don't get performers who are willing to build infrastructure at all and after a few of them. Here's me calling three times one contest I didn't get any performers. So what now? We have to wait some time for someone to show up. And then there's just going to be a charge in kind of 2021. So let's get the stories away from what's good or not, but if we've done as much as we should have done. I think we're at a good pace.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142205	Thank you. The replica was sought by Mr. Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142206	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Boric. I agree with you in the part where you said some tenders aren't tailored to local self-government units and that's definitely true. Unfortunately, we have some difficult circumstances, and it's not the EU's fault, but it's our own fault, let's put the rules ourselves. In particular, there are competitions in which units of local self-government, cities and municipalities cannot be contacted because they are in Groups 7 and 8. They're like developed. We know what this development is compared to the EU and if it were, in fact, we would all fall out in Group 1 and 2. And those cities and municipalities that are groups 1 to 6 do not have fiscal capacity do not have enough projects. And we've made it impossible for those under quotes rich to withdraw funds and that's the problem. I think we can agree that we haven't withdrawn enough funds and that we have to withdraw more. Cities and municipalities, I responsibly claim can withdraw as much funds as we can, but don't limit us, don't make tenders where the 7th and 8th groups can't run and then we don't withdraw enough funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142207	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142208	Comrade Prelec, we've been indexing, it's been said a lot that just those who are underdeveloped would have arrived and there's no dispute about whether it was meant to be. And just as all the measures that were going towards these less developed not only funds but also everything that the state was doing, first of all, taxes on income and the release of the entire part of the local self-government units, just those local self-governments should have given that fiscal capacity to catch up to these others, and that they obviously had some capacity to work at least part of these infrastructures, I would like us to have a competition on the islands that we appear like everyone else, but if the state or government has estimated that we have to respect each other and that the weaker ones of these more developed, then it's part of regional policy, so it's called so, to reduce inequalities and not have to look at it from one to another local self-government, so there's still time ahead of us, where there's sure to be a lot of it, and of course, depending on the abilities, some of course, are already going to be better at the moment of which we can be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142209	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142210	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, so today when we talk about half-yearly reports on the use of the European Structural and Investment Funds, it is necessary to reiterate and praise the efforts of the Ministry and Government that they have done during this period. Therefore, only 63.97% of the total contracted funds were agreed on 31 December 2018. However, I would pay little attention to who is more successful in these withdrawals or who is less successful, I think we all need to see together the reasons why some units of local or regional self-government are not so successful, which are problems and how their ministry, government and all of us together can come out and help them be better. The HGK published a review and comparison of agreed funds, counties and EU funds between 2017 and 2018. Here, I am pleased to say that my Sibenik-Knin County contracted a billion and 337 million kuna in that period. The most funds, of course, were agreed by the City of Zagreb, amounting to slightly less than 8.5 billion kuna. However, when we look at the agreed funds per capita, by county, because of course the City of Zagreb with its strength and financial and human resources cannot be compared with all other counties, even with our Sibenik-Kninski, then we will see that there is a Sibenik-Knin County far ahead of the City of Zagreb because we have agreed 13.181,00 kn per capita, while for example. The city of Zagreb only 10,531,00 kn arranged per capita. Of course, there is the most significant agreed funds per capita of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which we know is the reason Pelješki bridge and Dubrovnik Airport. It would still pay attention to the difference between the county's share of the EU funds and the share of GDP. The Sibenik-Knin County is far more successful in negotiating funds in view of the share in national GDP, and then here is the call for some others to do the same because the ministry and the government are making significant efforts to make it possible, as I said to smaller and towns and municipalities, especially to the counties to withdraw funds as quickly as possible from the European Funds. She would remember everything as well as the Regional Development Act is also planning to organise so-called "the Regional Development Act". Prolonged hands of field coordinators in all counties who will know in time to recognise a particular project and coordinate until its implementation of a particular tender. There are also financial problems for cities and municipalities that should be participated when an approved specific project from the European Funds is approved, however, and here we have a Fund to co-finance the implementation of European projects at regional and local level, so that in 2018 alone 200 million kuna is secured according to the Regulation and allocated to certain cities and municipalities, of course, they get a higher amount of development than those that are more developed. We also have specific HBOR credit programmes, the European Investment Bank is also, we have confirmed in this HS the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the EU Fund National Co-financing Project from 2014-2020 worth 300 million kuna. Some colleagues have criticized the issue of staffing, of course we would all like as many competitions to come out, the more contracts are being negotiated, the more approved and the faster it is not possible if we do not have quality personnel. In the budget for 2019 We could see that over 29 billion kuna was foreseen for employee expenditure, which is significantly more than we had in 2017 when we had 26.7 billion kuna. However, the expenditures of the state budget affecting the level of deficit or surplus in that table can be seen precisely that all these expenditures to employees who are higher than they were in the previous years will just come and come from EU funds, which means they do not affect or burden our original revenues. So we see that the expenditure on employees in the proposal for 2019, so our original only 24 billion kuna, which is 2 billion kuna and 700 million kuna, is less than we had in 2017. Much more could be said about what we have done over the past period, but I would still devote the last few minutes to what we expect and the problems discussed during this reporting period, and we would like everyone together to find themselves in, that we have the opportunity to finance in the next period from the European Funds. In fact, cities that have over 5,000 inhabitants at this time cannot finance even the very necessary construction of new kindergartens, social homes, firehouses, and I talked a lot about it since the town of Vodice belongs to that category, and here, the city of Vodice has been forced to now raise credit and start building a new kindergarten because this has not been made possible by the European funds, unlike smaller environments that have less than 5,000 inhabitants, so it is possible for them. If we look that in these smaller environments it is possible to finance the construction of promenades, children's playgrounds, then it is indeed an injustice that should be corrected in the coming period. There were also a lot of stories about the elevator construction programme in existing multi-state buildings in the Republic of Croatia, and on several occasions colleagues were looking for a break on the subject. On this occasion, I would say once again that it was possible to finance but through other projects, means energy efficiency and such an opportunity was not used by anyone in the Republic of Croatia, although I believe in the polls and interest of our citizens living in multi-state buildings and having the need for elevators to find it and be possible in the coming period. I was also approached by representatives of tourist communities, namely cities and municipalities can run for European funds, entrepreneurs also while the tourist communities, if they want to build or do any projects, are not possible for them, and tourism is one of our basic economic branches, so here is an appeal to do so in the coming period. All of what the Ministry and Government are doing and the amounts that we have so far, for the amounts for which we have opened the tender or agreed, and what we have managed to withdraw are certainly inescapable at this time if we say that 80% of the investment that is being made from European funds has certainly affected today's here with pride we can say that this quarter, in this first quarter of 2019, our GDP is actually higher by 3.9%, just as the State Statistics Institute announced today compared to the same period in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142211	Thank you. Three replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142212	Thank you very much. My colleague Juričev, meaning 3.9% clearly what I was saying earlier, means the construction operation is in full operation and it is clear that almost 11% of the buildings themselves are actually contributing to such growth in the first quarter, and surely throughout the year, but next year it will certainly be a major contribution to GDP growth, especially in tourism, but certainly the main infrastructure. What I wanted to look at was the question of employment. We heard employment needs here today. Every contest that's been published here has not passed without any mockery and that there has been no sort of dispute or comparison with the ugliest words of entanglement of any kind, and then we have a conflict with ourselves. If we want to, do we want the funds and the people who are going to do this to us or we don't want to do it, then we lose the opportunity to criticize it. And as far as small local self-government is concerned, I think we should start estimating. How much money they get to be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's capable of doing it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mr. Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142213	Thank you, thank you. Mrs. Jurič-Martinz's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142214	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, fellow Boric, the frames are basically the most significant I would say the strongest link in withdrawing EU funds, but there's a lot of questions about how much time it takes to get and educate a certain person, and then it's very easy to lose from the system just because of what you said, we call them arrests, but we can't pay them extra and quality for the work behind them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142215	Next replica, Mr. Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142216	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of Jurič-Martinchev statistics is a strange science, we can present it like this. You're saying we've taken enough money from the EU, I don't think so. We can certainly go far beyond that, and when we look at only the quality of the infrastructure in Croatia, how many cities and municipalities can build a lot of roads, footsteps, kindergartens, schools and all that, I would say that the EU does not have as much money as we need to bring all this to one level. And that's where you get along, too, but unfortunately we've complicated this process terribly, and we've made it difficult for ourselves to withdraw funds from the EU with some groups of up to 5,000 people. I am in the border area with Slovenia as they have made it much simpler. A lot more money was clear and withdrawn and they didn't complicate life. That's what we ourselves have repeatedly the greatest enemies. This should be done, these barriers should be removed and the cities, the municipalities to yet They use money more to make them more happy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142217	Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142218	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Prelec, we'll all agree that we'd like to have withdrawn significantly more funds. There would certainly be the proudest representatives of both the ministry and the government. However, it should be said that by the end of 2018, this government increased the amount of the contracted funds by 572% compared to what was achieved and the payment by 578%. Those figures are also inexorable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142219	And finally Mr. Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142220	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Martincevic, as far as European funds are concerned, I personally think that we have been very late, at least so far, we have not been able to get in, we have not been able to get in, we have not learned what we should do, and we have had time to enter Europe we have seen what Poland is doing and what other countries are doing. We should've gone to see if we didn't know, learn, train the staff to do it. I agree that more funds have been withdrawn lately, and that is good, but we are starting to learn when we should have known, and that is the problem, we are always late for everything, including this and, of course, it's sad that we have such intellectuals who couldn't teach certain people that they know and do it faster. So you need to think ahead of time, not let us come in, and we don't know how to do that, so I could say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142221	Here you go, ma'am. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142222	Thank you very much. My colleague Misic, I would agree with you that the personnel are the most important, but you are looking at it from the private perspective, you know that when you educate your employee, how you can keep it, unfortunately, our system is such that there is not enough method that we can, I would say, bind it to the system that he invested in education, so I would say on these possible trips, all of our people visited, saw and after some time went out of the system and opened their private consulting companies, and that's a big problem, not just the ministries, but everyone in the system. The best-quality people unfortunately leave quickly and leave the system and go to privates.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142223	Mr Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142224	... Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so today we are talking about a report on the withdrawal of the European Funds for 2017. And theoretically, it all looks kind of good. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So, we have some billions of euros at our disposal, all we need to do is design projects, write and people will get the grant money, they will get rich, the country will grow, it will flourish, and it is essentially EU membership a blessing for all of us. But what's the problem? The problem is that the funds that are theoretically available to the Republic of Croatia are not able to, therefore, withdraw. These funds, the infrastructure to withdraw these funds, have exclusively developed EU members, and not countries in the periphery such as the Republic of Croatia, and then it happens to us that we do not even apply more than half of these funds for them, and those funds for which we apply are very slowly paid out. So, from what we're negotiating, I don't know, we're withdrawing 20% of the funds. At the same time, we must give about 3.5 billion to 4 billion kuna as a membership fee in the EU. According to this report we received here, we received from the European Funds less than we have paid. So that's about the exchange, I give you 100 EUR, and you give me 100 kuna, so that's, in any case, we're losing. So we're already at a loss in the relationship between the paid memberships in the withdrawn funds. But what's kept quiet all the time, which is that we have a couple of tens of thousands of people who fill these projects, write projects, fill out forms and other bureaucratic obstacles, and those same people then follow the implementation of projects and these same people then follow the justice of projects. We pay these people out of the budget, so we pay them out of the budget, so, let's say, the employees who work in primary schools in these European projects get money from the education ministry budget, which means that the cost is even bigger, minus is even bigger, so we're talking about the quantitative minus. And when we add this up to a qualitative minus, so the content minus, then we can say that the European funds are nothing more than a common fraud, because if we could keep our up to 4 billion kunas and we could direct the work of employees working on European funds, other things that are our priority, we would profit far better from these funds than from European funds which are, therefore, quantitatively smaller, and at the same time focus on projects that are not our priority, but are the EU's priority. It is also important to note that the EU does not normally pay 100% of the funding for a project, but rather requires that the one who applied to be participated in funding with some amount ranging from 10 to 50% and then many people who would like to participate in European projects cannot participate because they simply cannot pay their share and then it is possible that if someone wants to participate in the European project then they must often take credit. When you take credit, you have to pay interest on credit, which is again buying up the entire procedure and what's worst of all, when you take credits, when you pay interest, they're paid to foreign banks, so in the Republic of Croatia is 99% of the banks in foreign ownership, which means that the EU actually makes money on the money it gives us, it returns one good part of it through these interest rates on loans, and that's what's actually very bad where in fact the EU takes money from us without absolutely any conditions. So we have to give money unconditionally, unconditionally, and when we withdraw money then we have to meet 1,000 conditions we still have to pay interest to foreign-owned banks, hire tens of thousands of people who will spend 100,000 and millions of hours of work and ask the question that is ultimately the benefit of everything. So instead of us increasing from some 4 billion kunas, for example. to introduce a guaranteed minimum pension of 3,300 kuna per pensioner, which would be quite enough, we use 4 billion kuna to pay for some projects that no one has ever heard of, let alone benefit from. Here, for example. I will tell you one such project, see the devil's money from European funds was received by Mrs Ana Stavivic Rukavina, a co-worker of Milan Bandic and a politician, although it is forbidden for politicians to participate in these European funds for the introduction of EU standards into Croatian health. What are the EU standards introduced into Croatian health, what benefit any of them benefit from, apart from normal Mrs Rukavina and her couple, a couple of friends never found out. Is it necessary to give this money to Bandic's associates or would it be better for example? to resolve the issue of homeless people in Croatia. So in Croatia, we have at least 10,000 homeless people who sleep, I don't know by the streets, by the benches, by the parks, and we, with the money we give the EU, would take care of them all without a problem and get them off the street so they don't freeze, get sick, not suffer not to die, but we don't give the EU and we who are at the bottom of the EU, which we are the poorest member with Bulgaria, we finance rich people. So we finance Germany, we finance France, Italy I don't know Spain, instead of them helping us. And that was the goal of the EU, that we would enter, and they would help us, because it is logical for the rich to help the poor, but we are not now in the EU to help the rich and yet to send our workers abroad to be paid there with Croatian money. So the Croatian worker in Germany was not paid with German money, but was paid with Croatian money that the German banks and their bureaucracy pulled out of Croatia through membership fees, pulled from Croatia through interest most in Europe in Croatia. So the bank margins are nowhere as high as in Croatia, etc., so it's a complete disaster. And that is why it is necessary to expose the European funds and to say clearly to the EU that we stop paying membership in the European Funds for so long as we do not have to get back more in black than we have given it. So we can only agree to the European Funds when we have solid, clear and unrelenting proof that we have received back for each kuna and at least 1 kuna and 1 lip. When we're in plus at least a little bit, at least 1% of us can accept it then, and it would be normal fair if the ratios were much higher and we would get at least 2 or 3 kunas for each kuna as a lagging member of the EU. So long as we from Europe get less than we pay by then we need to suspend Croatia's payment of EU membership fee and simply tell them that we will spend the money ourselves for what is our priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142225	Two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Bunjac is absolutely right about one thing, which is that in the last 5 years we have paid the financial perspectives in the European budget about 17,5 billion kuna, meaning in 5 years, 17,5 billion kuna. We have withdrawn funds from the EU by the end of last year, so in 5 years somewhere around, slightly less than a billion and 800 million euros, or slightly less than 13 billion kuna, which clearly states that there is a serious deficit in that part. In this part, however, I do not agree with you last said, which is that the EU should suspend the EU fund story already I would like to point out that this is, above all, the problem of the Croatian government that did not do a good job. So, if the government had withdrawn funds faster, it wouldn't have been in the downer than it would have been in the plus. It's a clear fact. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142227	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Bunjac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142228	Thank you very much. Representative Greek means I agree with you that the government is incompetent. Let's just look at the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, we have 428 municipalities, 128 cities of which 80% of them have never written a single European project because they don't know how to write it, because they don't have people to write it. So we should do different things, for example. a territorial structure so that there would be conditions for those funds to be withdrawn at all. However, it is also important to say that the EU rules are too complicated and that they are deliberately so designed that the funds cannot be fully withdrawn because if there was a goodwill, then those funds would simplify access to them and then it would be easier to withdraw them in fact, because if you have 100% of the funds, and 10 or 20% of them are obviously in the process as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142229	Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142230	Thank you. I am glad to say that Professor Greeks from the SDP confirmed what I said half an hour ago here that Croatia has a serious deficit to lose, more payments to the EU budget than it pulls away, stop lying to people, you prime ministers, don't walk around Croatia and say that we get more, go out to face ourselves publicly, and counterpart Bunjac, why they walk around Croatia and talk wherever people come from, citizens, these are EU funds, it's free of charge, you withdraw, so why don't they tell them in fact that we are actually financing the EU budget, more than we are withdrawing. Is this PR policy-making from this government, can citizens live on it? So what's it just for? Why do people cheat? We just see that it's not true. The farmers have not been paid 3.5 billion kuna, they simply sow manipulation and misinformation around them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142231	Time. Thank you. Mr. Bunzak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142232	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović. And these are also some kind of pre-election promise, which is about a similar exchange when the conquistadors came to America in the Middle Ages, so they gave the Indians mirrors for a kilo of gold. So they and we, they also give us some false glow, give us some objects, some hope, and basically work to take away everything they have, and eventually even our lives because the Croats will have to move to their countries, and here they will remain empty Slavonia, Dalmatia, Istria and other parts of Croatia. So no one's gonna put bread in your hands if you don't give it yourself. No Europe, no Germany, no England, no France, you have your 10 fingers, you have your brains, if you don't take care of yourself, no one else will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142233	Mr. Greek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So, a few conclusions that will not be new will be the repetition of the many data that have been presented here and are mostly standing, which is that Croatia is in terms of EU funds, the country as well as all other members who are being watched in the way that money from the EU budget has been paid into the Croatian budget so far, so in the last 5 years, if you will, I will be very happy to talk about the period in which I was in government, which is the previous 4 years or 3 years, so the financial perspective of 2007-2013. I want to talk about everything and what the professor said, and I'd love to be on the open stage as long as you guys want to talk about this very important topic. And it is important precisely for this reason that we are really paying more in the European budget, in Brussels we are giving, rather than, through the EU funds, stressing, we are returning the EU funds to Croatia. And I don't count on it, so all the support for agriculture, which in five years was maybe about 7 billion, now I don't have the exact data, so when we turn it on, then we're in some small plus and then plus some other programs, scientific and other, where through these programs with much less money helps Croatia. But mostly, that little plus can't be enough and can't justify the politics of this government. So the funds and the funds that are paid, these are the key indicators. What someone said, I'm thinking the same thing, Professor. Lovrinović, one thing is you're gonna set up a project, so you know when SEECEL, so the South East Centre, so South-East Europe project for the Entrepreneurship Education Centre, is contracted? Well, he's five years old and he's not finished yet. Therefore, it is about the effectiveness of the implementation, i.e. the ineffectiveness of the implementation of the projects. We started it, you see it, we broke it. One, he was on the Dnevnik last night, a contribution to the project, he's standing in a wire, the worker's gone, the project's not finished, his function hasn't been established. Who's to blame? Why did the Ciovski Bridge work two years longer? Why is some of the funds returned to the EU budget? Because of the inefficient state and government. So did you hear the data, one day a national media released data that in 2016, it had nothing to do with previous governments, 2016 an open tender worth nearly a billion kunas for the most important part of the Croatian economy, which is the one based on new projects, on new ideas, therefore investment in start-up, in research and development, etc., etc. 3 years after that, the project has not yet been completed. So the program isn't closed, the money hasn't been allocated, and you know what happened to these projects individually? They're out of date. In 3 years, no research project has any value left. Because the technology in three years is totally out of date and it's not really worth it to anyone anymore. Now, even if you give people money, they don't know what to do with it because some other people around them have already developed similar ideas or the same ideas, and it just doesn't do any good. Take the next thing. So we're very often listening, and here's a colleague of the pack who's not speaking here, the problems are from 2013, 14, 15. Oh, please. How can he even say that just during our government in his city realized 35 million kuna worth of investment. In his town, as mayor. Thanks to the very government that worked at that time. And now he's saying nothing was done then, is it? And look, please, this story that the minister tells all the time. I'm sorry we can't put these slides on screens and I'm asking Parliament's leadership to consider this idea a little bit. I want my slides to be seen here and to be seen by the public and to be seen by parliamentary representatives What? [[I'll pass it on to the President of the Parliament.]] Please. [[I'll pass it on to the President of the Parliament.]] Here, please nice because then you'd see this chart differently and everything would be clear. So it's said that we left some weak business, and then this HDZ government increased 500 percent, no matter what it increased? Look at the people, so this European Commission's 2015 chart, meaning paid in Croatia 3% of the funds, is the EU's average just above that, so somewhere at 3.5%. 3, 3,5, 2015. And look at 2019, Croatia paid 16% and you see where the EU average is, to 28%. Who's responsible for this gap here? Well, I guess it's not Milanovic's government, it's the one that's been around for the last three years and a little bit more here in power, right across the street. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, do not practice the previous government. You didn't do a good job, and that's the point, the point, whatever you want, and the big one question whether you're going to move in that way forward. We all expect it from you. So it is certain that by the end of the financial perspective, you will have a huge job before you because in the next less than 5 years, so somewhere 4 years and 10 months or less, 6 months, you have to implement at least 2 billion euros each year, 2 billion euros in investments each year you have to realize to take advantage of these funds that you agree to, quite challenging work. On behalf of the Croatian people, I wish you every happiness in this because it is primarily for the benefit of Croatia, the Croatian economy and Croatian people. I really want you to succeed even though you've squeezed us and not to say everything you've said about our failure, and there's a table on the side of the Ministry run by your government, so it's very easy to get that plate out, which shows that our government has completed the perspective of 2007-2013, you know how? So she arranged 130% of the total available funds that you then got about 22% simply to take and transfer to yourself. I'll tell you exactly what projects. So most of all at Dubrovnik Airport that we have agreed and you are now talking in the campaign as you have agreed, how you do it, etc., etc. Yes, you're in charge of realisation now, and that's what our government has prepared, arranged, and one part of about 20% to 30% spent. So let's be precise to the end. As for the total absorption of funds, the same table says that it was 87.44% at the end of the period. I tell you again, I wish you every happiness and that out of these 10.7 billion available, you also achieve at least 87.44%, now you're at 16 or 18, whatever. Five and a half years have passed, time lost, unfortunately, and it will be very difficult. There's one more thing I want to tell you is how weak this is. Take a look at the budget last year, so next slide, budget planning, Croatian budget by the HDZ government, plan 14 billion kuna, that's about the 2 billion euros that need to be realised annually, 14 billion kuna. Remember? We came in the fall for rebalancing, and in that rebalancing, you put it down to 11 billion kuna. And you know how the year ended, in the realisation of EU funds? Seven billion kuna. So half, only 50% of planned at the beginning of the year. So, we have a huge problem and people, get to work. It's about time. All the money we don't spend by 31.12. and we don't pay, or until the EU pays us, will fail, and this minus and this deficit we talked about will be really serious, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142235	Thank you, Mr. Greek. What you said before about the multimedia display, I fully support especially because it is possible because colleague Allen Prelac here has an extraordinary good presentation just like that, so that's possible, so you just have to simplify it so that you don't have to come forward, I don't know, 2 days before or 1 day before it's possible but otherwise, everyone figured you out here, it would only contribute to it if it was on TV but at the time you were talking, it was a weather forecast in Africa, but as far as television is concerned that there was no possibility of spreading your interesting discussion outside of Parliament. And now you have two replicas yet. The first replica of Mrs. Crescent. Sonja Chikotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142236	Dear fellow Greeks, I am interested in the impact of not using European funds worth 2.7 billion kuna in 2018 on total investment cycles in the Republic of Croatia and the impact in general on the growth of the economy, and how much is this all about? How much do we actually have to pay the membership fee and yet the advantages that we can, which the government itself is small and unambitious plans behind, have even less opportunities to realise? It is true that 7 billion kunas have realised 50% of the plan but I say, not even these ambitious plans, no ambitious plans have been implemented by the Government, so I am interested in the link between these investments because they account for 80% of the public investment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142237	Mr. Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142238	Thank you very much, colleague Chikotic, for warning this effect on GDP. So in the Moody’s report, a few weeks ago it was stated that public investments in the Republic of Croatia are historically low, literally written, at a historically low level. So one of the key reasons for this is said in the same report is the poor use of EU funds. Therefore, this is not an opposition renunciation, this is merely a matter of fact, one pressure, a positive pressure of the initiative that you who are responsible at the moment in the government, really get a stronger hold of that segment and that you seriously overcome the problems that objectively exist. So I failed to mention the environment, so one huge part of the European funds that has been completely, completely missed, so nothing there has been done in the last two, three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142239	And Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142240	Thank you. Dear Greek fellow, you're a university professor, like me, first of all I'm glad, we have to be able to give and receive criticism, right? I'm glad you got your strength ahead of the SDP because it used to show that we're getting more than we're paying, but you're today, that's one plus for me, publicly admitted especially now that there's a big difference between paid and received, in fact, that we're losing. So tell me why this government is so insistent on it, why it spreads untruths, so look how much it promotes in all the media, farmers are called, they offer funds, programs, contracts are made, when it has to be paid off, and then there's no propaganda, especially it's desperate for young farmers, why people are being protected, called, then when they lose their will, then they run out, what's that just for? Here, that's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142241	I appreciate the question. So I have to say one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142242	Mr. Greek, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142243	Excuse me, thank you. So, once again, I want to make it very clear that our government was attacked by many in the sense that we are paying more in the EU budget than we are withdrawing, which was a complete failure for a very simple reason, the Republic of Croatia did not pay any more in the EU budget, so there was no membership fee and everything we pulled from there was plus, as I would say, right? However, since 2013, so, 1.7.2013, until today, the Republic of Croatia has started to pay serious money in the EU budget, and in every situation, it should be compared to what the Republic of Croatia is pulling from the same EU budget and I say, unfortunately, in EU funds we are far below, when we add to agriculture and some other sources of funds, we are in a small minus, but not quite enough, in plus, excuse me, but completely insufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142244	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Miro Bulj, the club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists is as final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142245	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary Žunac, colleagues and colleagues, the fact that we are at the bottom of the scales after withdrawing funds from the EU funds, we all know that and we have simply withdrawn 17% of the funds foreseen from the EU funds. However, I do not understand why the report does not indicate that we have, therefore, an irregularity of 620 million kuna, which is why you are avoiding the esteemed secretary, I would like to hear the answer, 620 million kunas of irregularities in EU funds projects, so what else reduces the withdrawal of funds? Also, when we talk about EU funds, then we do not need to be hypocritical, we must say that when we enter the EU that we are essentially from the EU funds, that we have paid six Peljeka bridges, and the construction is one. Tell me, what did you do about irrigating? In the Croatian state today 2019 When you're just looking at, here's the karst field, the blue field, the vregorska, the motomatic one, which has problems that farmers have, without draining, no irrigation, it's amazing that they're always talking about these projects and they're always doing studies and project documentation, and there's no way to get funds from EU funds. 367, as far as you haven't told us how many irregularities you've made, you've listed 20, it's real 367, which is why you're reducing that number when you're writing false reports, which isn't correct for parliamentarians, first of all, towards citizens. Here, I have listened to a number of EU funds projects in the area where I come from, so is Slavonia, so is Lica, so is Gorski Kotar, so is 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, I can only mention a few projects you are calling on to finance from EU funds. It is Ravce-Drvenik, which is even open several times, here I am recently and set up again another promised stone, a cornerstone foundation that you can immediately get those funds you have, started immediately with construction, when they verticalized towards Imotski, Sinj... The knots, therefore, are all promises from the EU funds, but the fact is that we are still at the bottom, the fact that we have not withdrawn funds and you have no real argument other than to conceal the right things. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, 620 million irregularities are from EU projects, and you do not report it. Also, you say in the report that there are 367 decisions on SAFU irregularities, which means 367, you report that 20 decisions on SAFU irregularities are, so I would ask you to provide accurate information in the future and do not deceive representatives with incorrect information and thus the general public. Once again, Croatia is investing more in funds than it is returning through eu projects, we all know that Croatia will pay 5 billion euros from 2014 to 2020, that it is not even close to returning, that somewhere around a billion and 700, 800 euros from the estimated 10.5 billion euros. And not only with this, but how much is announced that cohesion funds will be reduced, which means that Croatia will be in an even more difficult position as last after the withdrawal of funds if we fail to break off, i.e. to fight for a better position and for a better withdrawal of funds, of course, we will be unequal and we will not be in competition with others at all in order to withdraw funds from the eu funds if cohesion funds are reduced. In conclusion, at the start of the EU after the withdrawal of the European funds, it is 17% last, 17% withdrawn from the projected funds, 620 million kuna we have irregularities, 320 decisions on irregularities and you stated that it has 20. Why didn't you state the exact facts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142246	Thank you, too. And now it's Mr. Stjepan Curaj, who will also present the views of the HNS Club as final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142247	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Very briefly sublime me this whole debate, we have on this side quite catastrophic data, on this side quite optimistic and good, since we are in the middle then probably both most often and true and is in the middle. So what we need to absolutely and clearly clarify, so we need to know what data we're talking about and what we're talking about. Someone's talking about 61.85%, then someone's talking about 16, 17, actually listed in material 18.48%. It's two separate data, it's pears and apples. If we are talking about the possibility of withdrawing the 10.73 billion funds that we have at our disposal, it doesn't even mean that we can do just that, some countries have said that they can do more at the expense of those countries that are smaller. With that in mind, we absolutely should have and we should have been better and that's the fact. Of course we should be better. That everything is so catastrophic that we can hear it, it's not. If we look at the observed report in the last one, we are talking about 18 months here with 31.12.2018, then we see that from 1 July to 31 December 2017, 1.33 billion euros were agreed, then in the first 6 months of 2017. 1,34 and then the second half of 2018. 1.56 billion euros. With this dynamic, we will, if we continue to negotiate more, that is, have time to negotiate more than is predicted. So if we continue in 2019, 2020, four half-years a billion and a half, a billion three, that's 6, if we know we're now at 6.63 it's practically 12 billion. On that side, we can have some optimism. Of course, that's not all and that's not enough. The second piece of information that the opposition first attaches to is what is paid. And of course, if you get an envelope in '14/'20. that in the first year you can't have anything paid, theoretically, maybe technical assistance or something like that because programs and projects last, year, two, three, four, five, according to certain endings, they just pay off when everything is authorized and approved, if all is well. That's absolutely clear. And of course, then we have a shortfall in those payouts at the beginning. And that's why the average of Europe was in 2015, which is Mr. Greek 3%. Now that we're watching '16, '17, especially, I'm asking you how many choices take that time and opportunity. Some say the elections cost the state six months, some... there is no one to sign, call large tenders, sign contracts on behalf of contract bodies, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had one election in 2015, so we had one election in 2016, so now if we had another election in 2017, where would we be? Then where would we be with those numbers? But I guess that's okay, that's justified. Or, I don't know, it's kind of not for me. The main thesis N+3, the time to withdraw the funds can be obtained another three years after the financial envelope, means until 2023. Then we have to follow that. But I say again, I can't be satisfied, I wish it were, if we were in line with at least the European average. Why? Because here it is well said, there is difficulty in evaluation, in implementation, in payment, etc., there is not everything that is agreed upon. Although these percentages that speak here aren't bad. Of course, what's good is that finally the citizens and our units of local self-government realized you don't need to know anyone anymore, or have anyone or be in any party to do a good job for your city and community. It's finally happening. How? The very evil EU, which is a disaster, which takes everything away from us, which needs to be banned. Oh, come on, she also taught us that if you're smart, you're capable, and you can win, and that's what's happening today. It's the same EU. Of the same ones who wouldn't know what they were doing to her, they just took it and didn't give anything and treated her like some black devil. And so I say once again, it's not true here, it's not true, the truth is always somewhere in the middle, but that means we have to do a lot better. I am pleased that the two resolution ministries by the CNS are above the average of the planned funds, and I call on absolutely all to go even stronger and higher because this is a great opportunity and we see what this has to do with GDP and see what that effect has on our local community, and that is why this is an extremely important topic and it needs even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142248	Thank you, too. And now Secretary of State Velimir Zunac will have the final word on behalf of the motionor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the end, I'd like to take a look at it. I'd like to thank everyone who's been taking part in the debate. There were real and constructive and well-intentioned remarks, and there were those that perhaps he disagreed with definitely. Here I would start my presentation with the fact that there were three half-year reports in front of you, so for the second half of 2017 and the first half of 2018, if you remember, until now you've largely resented us being late, that this is data that's out of date, etc., so, by making these three half-years of reports, we've all arrived and I know that in the beginning we've had a lot of delays for a variety of reasons that we wouldn't be entering, but definitely if you remember, we had the first time we've reported five half-year reports, so we've speeded up so that today we're talking about the end of 2018 reports, and we've only been able to enter in 2019. That's number one. Under number two, I would say that we should all be a little bit like that, if this is realistic, so today it is said several times here, so the Republic of Croatia when entering the EU was not ready to use European funds at the appropriate level, of course it always remains the question of why. So we didn't have a clear strategy or a vision of how we want to use these funds, so we did it faster and better, so that's where we mentioned some percentages, so on January 1, 2017, Croatia was at 9% of the contracted funds, so it went through the whole of 2014, 2015, 2016, in order to be at 9% of the contracted funds here... to say as a bargaining is not important, there was no contest, there were no public calls, but it was our reality and really. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 1.1.2018. we came to 35%, 1.1.2019. we came to 62%, today we are at over 68% and end of 2019. we will welcome to 85% is our goal and we will achieve this in order that in the last year of the contract we would then come to 100 to 105% as planned and as a colleague here at the end, Mr. Curaj noticed, dynamics is more than good, it is not great, but it is more than good compared to the beginnings we had and I think these plans are real and so I repeat once again, we have half of 2019 and the whole of 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023, and we will therefore make the most effective use of this to make the most of allocation 10.7 billion euros possible. So the story here has been mentioned several times that the Republic of Croatia is in the deficit of European funds, so it is definitely not true, the data that are publicly available, the official data of the Ministry of Finance say that Croatia is in plus, 14.4 billion kuna, and so we have to distinguish what it says, so these are slightly less than 2 billion that have been paid or declared, so this is about the funds that are to say, these are data on the implementation of European structural investment funds, there are no advances, there are no pre-financing, there are no direct payments, so these are all the money that come and are used but this is a different course of money, there are no comparisons of such two things. I will say only one piece of information that we also had the opportunity to see these days on one of the portals, so since our entry into the EU, our neighbouring country, so the Republic of Slovenia, has achieved a 3 billion-euro surplus, we are talking about the 2004-2019 period. So 3 billion euros made a plus in these 15 years of membership. We will certainly have a better plus, significantly better plus than that plus in the years ahead of us already in our first financial perspective to say this here, so this is our first big allocation, we are learning, of course we are wrong, but we are also growing up and growing up to be as good as possible in the time ahead and also someone mentioned here today that there was no strategy and there was no strategy, so unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, so we want to make sure that we are fully or much more ready when we come to the financial perspective of 2021-2027, we are doing the already mentioned National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, so we want to recognize the priorities that will therefore contribute to better quality, faster development of the Republic of Croatia, which will therefore create additional value and that will definitely make life more efficient and better and that citizens in Croatia. So that is the meaning of the National Development Strategy, which unfortunately the Republic of Croatia does not have of its independence, from the acquisition of independence, and it will be by the end of this year and here among you and there are absolutely all spheres of society, so not only the ministries, but also the academic community, the private sector, the civil sector, so even citizens in some way, therefore, that is what we want to do to have the basis for programming the next financial perspective because it is really necessary to make better use of European funds. It is also said here that Croatia is making a very poor use of European funds. She's using them the way it is so far I'd say necessarily, so mentioned... In 2018 we have normally met, achieved and in the future we are also planning to meet these objectives, which means, this is the minimum amount that must be withdrawn in order to meet this overall planned alocation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is said here that our cities and municipalities do not therefore use European funds, one part of them may not have used in the years that preceded them, there are in this assembly of the Parliament and some mayors and mayors of the municipalities and definitely when you drive the Republic of Croatia, when you enter the Republic of Croatia, you will see, therefore, many cranes and many working machines, batheers, etc. And every one of you, and you will see in many places, indeed in many places, you will see, therefore, the tables that are connected to, therefore, the funding from the European Funds. Of course, it is difficult to say to what extent, but certainly this data that has come out today about GDP growth can be thanked in part and the fact that investment through the European Funds has affected its growth, it would certainly be even greater to make more use of it, therefore, used, increased, but definitely on a good track, we have set goals and plans, and we have quality people working throughout the system, of course without them, it would not be possible and I use this opportunity to thank all of them and thank all of them for what they do because all these competitions, and only in these three half-year periods which today are published 230 public calls and competitions that could occur, therefore, from various sectors, from different spheres of life and what is certain, so over 5 and half of thousands of projects are published from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion and operational programmes, some of which are implemented at this time, in fact, and in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, some of the time in fact, were implemented in fact, in fact, in fact. These are really respectable figures, and when we talk about the rural development programme, so almost 79 and a half thousand, so the projects are through all possible measures that the rural programme has, and there are, therefore, plenty of them all have implemented. So, we wrote down some things, we don't need to keep secrets, for the next report that will come in a few months, for the first half of 2019. We will also install these suggestions and suggestions, indeed all data are public, I have already said several times today that through the portal of structural funds.hr about each project, therefore, about every agreed project, so, for which there is a decision, for which there is a contract, information can be found as to how much it amounts, how much the amount of grants, how much it is its own participation, so the applicant and all the other information about what, details of this project, therefore, there is no reason to hide anything, nor want to hide anything from anyone, because all of this information and all of that means, therefore, that come from the European Funds, and also of course from the state budget, are public and therefore available to each of you. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142250	Thank you, too. We have four replicas on your exhibit, first colleague Sonja Čikotić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142251	Dear Secretary of State, not one of my questions I asked you on behalf of the club, you didn't answer in your final statement. I also ask you to stop fooling the Croatian public with regard to the reports we have ahead of us, there are no more than 60 irregularities that have been identified, and according to the Minister's reply, your Žalac, which has been signed since 29 April 2019, which includes the period until 31 December 2018. Only the Central Agency for Contracting and Project Financing issued 367 decisions on irregularities worth 512 million kuna, here is Minister Žalac's signature, and you in these irregularities, meaning which are numbered in these reports, you have only 60th, which you deceive with these reports and I ask you to bring the right and relevant data to HS next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142252	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142253	Thank you. So I guess, I don't know that information, but I guess it's a cumulative number of irregularities from the first moment to that date. Here in the reports we refer, therefore, to their, therefore, I would say the number according to each report, as I said, so the first, second half of 2017. The number 29, the second, the first half of 2018 was 48 and the first, the second half of 2018, so again the new 59 irregularities, their... I said it was growing and therefore, the rate of agreement, or the number of projects that have been implemented adequately accordingly, of course, unfortunately, we have the number of irregularities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the number, I'd say cumulative from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142254	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142255	Thank you very much. Which is why you haven't given us answers to our questions, and I've asked the same thing as my colleague about, so decisions on irregularities from SAFU 367 decisions, you've listed them for a few dozen. And now in response to my colleague, you don't give that information. Why didn't you say you had 620 million kuna irregularities in EU projects? Why don't you confirm that you just withdrew 17% of the EU funds we have at our disposal? In fact, you have not given a single answer to a single question of parliamentary representatives, but in your report, the least problem is the parliamentary representatives, but the general public. And your ministry is simply a department of deception and lies to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142256	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142257	So thank you for asking, but what's important for the word, so that within one contract or one project there may be more irregularities, that's something that's not good, but it's possible. So, I'm not hiding anything, I'm going to repeat what I just said, so the data is related to these three half-year reports, they're not cumulative, they're not summed up, what was in the first part of 2017, 2016. 2015, 2014 So this is the data that is official and no one is deceived.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142258	Next replica fellow Stazic, please welcome colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142259	Dear Secretary of State, you say in our final address we're making mistakes, but we're learning, we're growing up. But how long are you going to learn this and how long are you going to grow up? You should have grown up a long time ago and been up to the task you took. You say you're comparing yourself with Slovenia, so as far as Slovenia and Hungary are concerned, that's a completely wrong method, you're comparing yourself with what you could have done and you haven't done. You say if you go to Croatia, you'll see cranes and baggers, so that doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything at all, it's proof of nothing. So the only thing relevant is what your colleague Greek told you here, what you did and didn't do. And why didn't you, because you didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142260	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142261	I appreciate the question, it might have been a little easier for us if we had a better starting base, but now that's no excuse for the past. I have provided you with the information on the agreement, so the agreement is necessary, the first necessary step that must be achieved in order to continue to be implemented. These are the projects you were talking about today that took two years, three years, some last and longer, with a number of challenges we have during their implementation. Therefore, the level of bargaining, the dynamics are very good, the level of payment will grow over time, and it is important for us as a state to meet our tasks, i.e. n+3 objectives, and thus we do not lose any funds. Of course, we have a serious and painful job ahead of us, but we're aware of it and we're prepared to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142262	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, Comrade Curaj Stjepan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142263	Thank you. I have, actually I'm going to try another question from what I had, apropo of these irregularities. What is the average irregularity for EU projects at Europe level? It's here if I'm not wrong, I counted 135, that's how it is, 135 irregularities, not 30, out of the total number that's for registration, and what's the average European di we're coughing for Europe here? And the other thing that's most important in the operational programme is competitiveness and cohesion, so the one for the development of the economy and the alignment of the regionals, we're at a 14% payoff level of 63, which is the European average, is that I guess we're doing a little bit on that part, here's the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142264	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142265	Thank you very much. So, we don't have official information on the number of irregularities, but we have official data on how much of the corrections at EU level are, I said here today, so it's 10%. 10% is the amount of corrections that happen to, therefore, the EU average. Thus, when you have a correction, if you recognize it so within your own system before it reaches the European Commission, it is not lost money, it is still the money that remains in the location of the Republic of Croatia. If we do not detect our system, and then it ends up with the European Commission, there is an irregularity and then these money can be lost. Therefore, it is good to detect irregularities as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142266	Thank you. Okay, this concludes the debate on the report on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2017, from 1 January to 30 June 2018 and from 1 July to 31 December 2018, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142267	(a) Report on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds and EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2017 (b) Report on the use of the European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2018 and (c)The report on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2018. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. A, in accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusions, under (a) it is accepted, under (b) it is accepted and accepted under c). Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 97 for, 3 abstentions and 5 against the conclusion that they were proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142268	The next item of the agenda is: - The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2017 The report is submitted by the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War on the basis of Article 9. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Please Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War Mr. Nazor to give an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs, so I can only say that you have received our report that I have nothing new to add except to take advantage of the occasion which, mentions some things that we have not been able to state in the report because they have been completed afterwards. It is one project that in some way and the answer to the second-degree verdict of our six in The Hague case Prlic and we stayed where, for example, General Jelic launched one Project of Croatian Victims in BiH, we believe that when it comes to Croatia, we have answered many questions about many misinformations so that we believe that this is our priority and practically here we are at the end, and while we wrote this report, only the Central Bosnia Project was reported. Namely, the victims of Central Bosnia in Croatia are little known, if even one area in which the Croats live suffered if compared, I think Central Bosnia in the Homeland War suffered terrible losses, and that we in Croatia do not know much about it. We are also conducting the Croatian Victims Project in BiH, so two books are near the end, and here I can only tell you that according to the current list made on the ground and which is now being checked before we go to the press, that around 1,850 Croatian civilians or captured members of the HVO were killed by Serbian troops and JNA, and that around 1,150 Croats and captured members of the HVO killed by the BiH Army. When we talk about crimes, we know that in Croatia we have 150 mass graves with victims of Serbian forces, and that more than 120 individual tombs have been found. What I would like to point out at the outset is that every crime should be condemned, his perpetrators punished independently of their national and religious identity and expressed condolences for all innocent victims in the war both in Croatia and BiH. But the fact is that crimes against Croats in BiH are mostly silenced or diminished, so I would only bring here a few data that I consider important. For example, little has been said and written about the closure and banishment of Croats in areas that are in BiH, for example, under the authority of Bosniak Muslims. During the war, 331 camps and prisons were established where 14 444 Croats were held, of which 10 346 were civilians and 4 098 soldiers. Of that number, 632 campers and prisoners were killed, and 50 of them were brutally executed in a ritual way, in the same way that Muslim extremists would later kill Christians in Syria. There was no record that the Hague court also pointed out that 52,000 Bosniaks were exiled from the HVO area and that about 172 thousand Croats were expelled from the territory under the control of the BiH Army. The territory under the control of Croatian forces has left 9.12%, the area controlled by Muslim forces 43.10%, and the area controlled by Serb forces 47.40% of the total number of exiled and displaced persons in BiH. I think we should make that clear in this House. I would also warn of some toponyms that we have not had the opportunity to listen to in the media in Croatia. We have heard of Ahmić and Stupni Dol, and I repeat, it is a shame for us Croats, these are crimes that deserve condemnation, but should be heard and heard about Gusti Grab, 26 January 93, the municipality of Busovac, the village of Dusina, 26 January 93, the municipality of Zenica, there began this spiral of evil, there began what would later happen in the areas where the conflict between the BiH Army and the HVO. That's where the Croatian civilians were killed. Likewise, Šušanj, in the municipality of Konjic, we have the villages of Orište, March 25, Busčak, April 14th, that was before the events in Ahmići, on the same day that Ahmići happened, we have the village of Trusina where Croatian civilians were killed and members of HVO were captured. This is very, very little being said in the media in Croatia. We have the municipality of Jablanica, Doljani, Gornji Vakuf, Uskople, Bugojno, surrounding settlements, Gracanica, Vucipolje, Zavidovići, Kiseljak near Zepča, Kiseljak near Sarajevo, Varesh and the surrounding area, for example, the village of Kopalari, 19 October, 5 days before the crime in Stupno Dol, so let's say, in Kaknja, Knightz, the surrounding settlements, the most famous are the village of Križanče, Buhine Houses,... Nova Travnik, surrounding settlements, Rastovci, Zenepici, Travnik, surrounding settlements, Maljina, Čukle, Dolac, Uzdol,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The municipality of Window, Gracanica, Fojnica, etc., in Mostar, even in Grabovica, which was deep above the line of battlefields. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to sources, at least 7 times as many civilians, Croats and captured members of the HVO killed some members of the BiH Army than some members of the HVO killed civilians, Muslims, Bosniaks and captured members of the BiH Army. Speaking of crimes by Serb forces, it should be recalled that the Croats were the first to hit the Serb aggression on BiH, on 13 November 91st after burning down the village of Ravna and the villages of surrounding Croatia in October. They killed nine Croatian civilians in the village of Kiev Do. In 92 we have crimes on Kupres, in the villages of Donja Vrela and the municipalities of Bosanski Brod, Vidovica and Kopanica, the village of Church, the municipality of Bosanski Šamac, the villages of Krepšić, Gorica,... It is the municipality of Brčko, on Galica, the municipality of Travnik, the village of Umorak, Vrapčići in the municipality of Mostar, the village of Brisevo, the municipality of Prijedor and elsewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in Banja Luka, I do not know how well it is known where there was no conflict, Serb troops killed 96 Croat civilians, and 465 Croatian civilians were killed in Sarajevo during the Serbian attack on the city. The killing of 8 Croatian children in Knights, among whom about 20.45 hours of mines fell 120 mm from the direction of the BiH Army, to a space that was otherwise protected from the snipers in which the children were playing, was known in the Croatian and world public. Five children were immediately killed, 3 died in the hospital, Milan Garic, Sanja Garic, Dragan Ramljak, Velimir Grebenar, Augustina Grebenar, Boris Anticevic, Draženko Cečura and Sanja Križanovic. What's embarrassing, the video footage of that murder was recorded by local television knights, but no foreign TV house wanted to download and publish them. These are facts about the Homeland War. And lastly, I would remind her, we all know the fate of Kate Šoljic, who was the mother of the people who were killed in Vukovar, four of her sons were killed and her son-in-law, but we don't know that they are similar to the tragedy she experienced in II. Holy shit. The war because her brothers were killed, that a similar tragedy had been experienced by Croats in BiH, Anica Juric of Kovac in central Bosnia, by members of the BiH Army, who were apparently murdered by her husband and 3 sons, Sarafina Lauš, a grassland Croat from the village of Cukla, by members of the BiH Army, by three sons and wives Ivo and, say the fate of Ana Ivandic, who were killed by Serb soldiers in Brisevo near Prijedor by 3 sons, on the same day by her sister-in-law, so that four children were left without both parents in the same day. Otherwise, the village of Brisevo, one of the biggest massacres over the Croats in BiH, I don't know how much you heard and how much we know in Croatia, on July 24th and 25th 92 Serbian forces killed 59 Croats, after which, another 14 were killed in Serb-controlled camps in BiH. Thus, the municipality of Prijedor was otherwise done in 92, so something we can call genocide against Croats and Muslims who committed Serb forces. Here, all that was missing in our history. And I think with these books that we're going to do at the end that we started working on the cycle while I wrote this report that we're going to answer that question. Another piece of information. We're finally at the end of the list of dead people in the Homeland War. Two months ago, we got another checklist and we're currently analyzing our list and our list. And I can't say the deadline, but I believe by the end of the year that at least we'll know about every defense attorney where he died, in whatever circumstances, that we'll know about every place there's been in the Homeland War, every municipality, every county. As far as nationality is concerned, we are waiting for positive answers. Namely, everything exists in the institutions of the Croatian state. The Ministry of Administration or the Bureau of Statistics where the data from the list is 91st year, and each of us declared himself then and according to his nationality, by nationality. It is simply necessary to coordinate the number of people killed and belongings declared in 91st year and we will know exactly how many members of the Croatian people and national minorities died in the defense of Croatia, or how deadlyly they died during the Homeland War. I can only tell you here a few data related to a sample of 8 thousand 225 listed dead defenders. Nationality is such that 7 thousand 621 Croats, behind which is the most Muslims 104, and 65 Serbs, 31 Hungarian, 10 Slovenes, 9 Russian, 6 Italians. There's something and people who are unknown. 12 Albanians. Let's say under unknowns it's 323. It's about 40 people with, say, Muslim names and last names. So somewhere less than 200 Muslims are on that list of dead defenders. These are the things I felt needed to say today, given that we are at the end of these projects. And here's exactly when I was moving here towards Parliament from the printery, our new book came to us. She's a photo of Renat Brandelica. He's a witness to time. That's what it's called. He's one of the few people who recorded that legendary jump by Bellmire Boban. But what's interesting here because we are in the Assembly is that here in this book are photos of several sessions, important sessions of the Croatian Parliament on 25 July when amendments to the Constitution of Croatia were adopted in the 1990s. And of course that historic session of the Croatian Parliament since 25 June 91st when the constitutional decision decided that Croatia would be a sovereign and independent state. So I believe that both photos and flags and characters that are in this book will help to better understand Croatian history and chronology of the events of the 1990s. Thank you. That's it. If there are any questions I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142270	Thank you, too. We have seven replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague, Culey, who's not here right now. And after that, he's a colleague of Kirin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142271	Dear Vice President of the House, Mr. Director, do you, as Director of the Memorial Documentary Center of the Homeland War, believe that the history of the Homeland War II and the history of World War II is based on verified and scientifically proven truths? What do you think of some historians who build their actions and their status on the truths that have not been checked, and we need to know that there are also truths that we cannot give up on, what do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142272	Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142273	I can answer in principle. But you didn't tell me which historians it was. Of course, it is the responsibility of all of us who are in science to respect the methodology of historical science and that when we talk about something, we speak on the basis of the sources that have been verified. The more sources, the closer we get to some objective truth. We who are involved in the development of the Homeland War have the opportunity to have written sources and lips and to check them out. And just when we're talking about this list, for a long time he's been on hold for one simple reason why I don't want to date the final numbers until we've checked every data, as long as we don't have a fully filled column that wouldn't happen to us to date some data as a final date, and we can't back them up. As far as your question is concerned, there's only one specific question I'm going to say. I was on the air, discussing with the man who commented on President Tudjman's transcripts regarding the second-degree verdict in the case of Prlic and others. And when I asked him, "Did you read a transcript from the Office of the President?" He said, "No. I don't do that."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142274	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142275	Unfortunately, these have a lot of media space and create confusion... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142276	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Mišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142277	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, a respected colleague, Nazor, of our crimes, of the crimes committed in Croatia since World War II, can be discussed for hours. But what's the biggest problem, the truth never comes out in the right place. We know the crimes of Bleiburg that are here from the Assembly, and the truth and our media are saying that they are... They stood up, not looking at the walled women, the children, and all the rest so I wouldn't pick it up. [[You don't understand.]] We have crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we also talk about Posavina, we are talking about this Brisevo village near Banja Luka, and also in Banja Luka and everywhere, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. Of course, the truth should come out. However, we have a feeling and I have a feeling that the truth wants to be hidden, and the truth must be public regardless of whose crimes they are. However, as long as we want to put crimes aside somewhere, we never as a state and as a people we will not come to your... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142279	We just can't act like one, especially writers who write. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142280	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142281	The truth will come out eventually. In fact, the fact will come out. We do this to make certain things that, where we have noticed that they are neglected in public in Croatia, but also in the world, we have noticed that even in the Hague procedures are not covered, and they should certainly be given account of everything that has been found there and that is why we are devoting this book to what has been neglected. I think the solution for the Republic of Croatia is what we have proposed on the Council to face the past or the consequences of totalitarian regimes or non-democratic regimes, as you will, one project that would be victims of the 20th century, where data would be collected in a scientific way and on the First World War, which is an absolutely unexplored area with us, the Second World War and the Homeland War and, of course, the porn, which, in time, should be a Croatian project, eventually included international scientists and after 4-5.g. The work of the project, I'm convinced that many things would be clearer, so that we don't get to the final numbers, but there'd be a lot of things [[Intruder: Thank you]] They were clearer than they are now. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142282	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Nazor, I see one big problem regarding the same treatment of Homeland War at primary school, what is being processed at the end of eighth grade when the concentration of students is much smaller, specifically, it is being handled, in fact, the last topic in the school curricula at all, and I think it opens space for one another, therefore, the thing, and that is that such topics, which I think are very important in continuing history, should be processed in periods where the focus of children and teachers is much higher, rather than at the end of the school year, when all the grades are actually completed and when we don't actually have any focus on this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142284	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142285	I think I even talked about it two years ago. here in HS after talking to teachers, it is precisely what is said as a problem when it comes to the topic of Homeland War. We have tried to end this new curricula to be the European Integrations of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the entire programme, so that this topic is still a little earlier, but regardless of whether this topic is going to be the last or the last, teachers have enough space to deal with the issues of the Homeland War on occasion, so we are going back to what we are talking about, regardless of how the reform of education ends, it is the teacher who has enough autonomy to warn some things during his lecture, I believe that our teachers are mature enough and mature enough and aware that the students know what needs to be transferred and there will certainly be more debate, I believe in their creativity, and as to whether there will be a topic last or last, it can be considered and put perhaps a little earlier exactly to avoid lack of interest because of other problems. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142286	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142287	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Nazir, every year, and these, in your report we receive are always impressive figures that can be read and it is certain that it will not be through this dispute related to the Homeland War and the time after it precisely because of you, because of the people who deal with these things and this Croatian Peace Centre itself. What colleagues say about our Second World War and Paradise, Bleiburg, Jasenovac, I would also like to suggest to you perhaps an international commission, to go as a project of the Croatian state regarding these victims, so that once and for all, the truth may be interrupted. What I want to say in particular, I don't know how much you've been involved in this year, for many years we've been working on it, this year we've had an exhibition of crime without punishment, Bor's village, and I see that in one part of it and you've been working on the paperwork itself, I don't know how much and in what way. And one more thing. Please, about [[Intruder: Thank you]] Ph.D. through your center, [[Intruder:...column]] How much would you... [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague]] Had a new... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142288	Don't abuse time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142289	Yes, many topics are open, they are not closed, they are not completed in court proceedings. For example, we have in Bor's village documentation of JNA that very clearly shows that there are very Chetniks because the reports of intelligence JNA have been reported since April of the month that in Bor's village the very members of the Chetnik movement, the members of the Serbian Renewal Movement, and that, today it is known, are armed right from Serbia, it is very important when we talk about the beginnings of the tragedy in Vukovar because it is simply inadmissible, it is chronologically incorrect. So, already before May 2nd, since April of the month very clearly what is happening in that area and what wants to provoke and why this murder happened at all, but when we talk about Bor's village, let's not forget the same day is on the other end of the Republic of Dalmatia, the murdered officer Franco Fox, May 2nd is, date on which it is in the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you...]] 13 officers killed, not just in Bor's village. [[Intruder:...you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142290	Thank you. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142291	Dear Director, there is no doubt that the work you do is valuable and beneficial, and it remains for the future, wherever it is possible to determine each victim individually and the way you suffer, this will be based on history, on your work, political disputes about it can be, as there are today, as there are political disputes about Bleiburg whether the Ustashas or the grandmothers were killed there, I think they were Ustashas, that they were killed without trial, I wonder who they tried in Jasenovac or in the Glinski church they burned. What I'm interested in, question one, one question for you, you're dealing with scientific work, not persecution, but what is your cooperation with the law enforcement bodies, where you find that a war crime has been committed, is that what you're reporting to the State's Attorney's office to do through international co-operation where it is possible to initiate a punishment procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142292	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142293	So there's cooperation, after all, the State's Attorney's office and we're looking for information about the paperwork we have and it's being forwarded there. All these years we've been practically available to the State's Attorney's Office and the defenses in the judicial proceedings that were before The Hague, but you just opened that topic, I'm dealing with the Homeland War, but let's start with every crime committed without a court being a crime. Let's finally start looking from the victim's perspective, then maybe our society will be better, let's not share. My dida ended up in Bleiburg, he wasn't a Ustasha or a cop, he barely got his head back, so let's not talk about Bleiburg or modern history. I said here very clearly, I'm ashamed of the crimes in Ahmiqi. Like a Croat. I didn't do it. But I don't understand how in Croatia today when we talk about crimes against Croats in BiH, when you ask an average citizen in Ban Jelačić Square They won't know how to list two cases of that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We're media strong. very, very.../ [[Thank you. Thank you, time.]] Intruder: A fellow Nazor. /... in an unfavourable situation when it comes to crimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We share where we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142294	I'm begging you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142295	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You've broken the Rules of Procedure. Art. 237, since you didn't give Stazic a warning, he took it as his right to call all civilian victims in Bleiburg the grandmothers. This High House is the patron of the Bleiburg victims, and you, as chairman of this house, had to warn him. You can think of anything you want. But those poor kids, those poor people and women who were shamelessly murdered after he finished II. Holy shit. war, You have no right to call your grandmothers. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] And you can be ideological. [[Intruder: Good, thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142296	We'll continue with the last line. Here's your colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142297	Thank you very much. Mr. Nazor, I sincerely thank you for this report, and I am glad that this report has been updated with some new fresh information. However, what I do wish, that a lot of this material that is in your report in this House of Commons, is found in history textbooks in Croatian schools. For one single reason. Here, today we have a fight over Bleiburg, let's give the truth, let's give the facts while there are still living witnesses. Because that's the only way to ensure our children a peaceful future. Homeland war is for every Croat of the world. In it we defended and created a Croatian state with many victims of Croatians in Croatia, Croats from BiH and Croats from the diaspora. Also, confessing their own crimes that took place, but unfortunately in The Hague court the most were tried by Croats, and then by all others, as if the Croats were not attacked than someone else attacked them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142298	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142299	Well, I have nothing to add, except for the fact that research continues. We, when we were founded in 2005, had not known much to me either, and hopefully, here, you said that the textbooks that will be published in the future would contain more recent and verified data. What is unacceptable to me, and I find embarrassing, is that in 2019 we had to fight through the implementation of the curricula for a simple fact that teaching from national history through at least 10 topics is a commitment. In 2019, we in Croatia have to fight to make the topics from the Croatians to the recent history mandatory, not that everyone can interpret them, actually decide whether to present them at all or not. In the first part of the curricula you now have mandatory themes, which will be in the second part, we'll just see, I'm not satisfied with the processes as they continue because the people who insisted on it to study Croatian history [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Creating a Policy... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142300	Thank you, Mr. Nazor. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? My colleague Djakić, a colleague of Bedekovic's? If not, I ask the government's representative for an additional explanation? I don't either. That's how I open the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142301	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nazor, the Honorable Representative of the Government. My colleagues and colleagues. ... The documentary center is one of the pearls that should have been left in our future generations of truth about the Homeland War, of course it's a huge job and that this truth should be done a lot more and it should be done because it's simply a very little devoted, but only when we see how the curriculum worked, who did reviews, I don't know who at all, it's been said that foreigners are doing a review, and we have these experts, our people who are engaged and historians who are competent, and here I am interested in that question, who was doing a review of the Homeland War in the Curriculum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, when we talk about the victims that we should say that the Croatian state was created in the Homeland War on the victims of all uniquely in the fight against major Serb aggression, against Chetnya and what was happening together, the JNA and the Chetniks wanted to reach the border of Greater Serbia, and of course that should be written about it, it should be investigated and scientificly justified because Croatia was simply not an aggressor, Croatia defended Croatia and it defended BiH, mainly HV and HVO. Of course, when I speak under HV, I also consider the troops of the MUP and the troops of the Croatian HOS, the Croatian Defence Forces, which were terribly at the most difficult battlefields and we should write about it. But when we talk about the victims, of course it's not nice in the Parliament when my colleague Stazic says several times he said he didn't even end the 45th war, that he should continue to kill people, these are terrible messages, and I think that the victims should be bowed down, and that the victims should be talked about essentially with dignity, and I think that you, colleague Nazor, Mr. Nazor, will insist on that and that the Croatian government, whatever it is, will provide enough resources for the truth to come out. Of course, when we talk about the Homeland War, that the Homeland War is in essence, the cause of the Homeland War is a major Serb aggression, that we still have a large number of missing people, which the state doesn't care about, mainly in Serbia where a natural person from Serbia simply pays the judicial costs to the families of ours and the government does nothing, of course, and by law, here was recently the law of a colleague and colleagues, clearly in the first reading of the Ministry of Defense where they propose the Law of the Missing from the Homeland War. I mean, that's when I suggested that it's called the law because of the law on the missing because of great Serb aggression because it's not the cause of these victims, the Homeland War, but the cause of the missing means large-serb aggression, and because of the truth, you should talk about it. I believe that your work is positive, and here you have listed, here you have spoken in the BiH area we know that Posavina, Central Bosnia, Savina, that Croatia also has its independence on that blood, in the blood of these people, and that the work should be really talked about because Posavina has also given a great role in the defence of the Homeland War and as a participant for about a year in the BiH area in the Homeland War, I can once again express regret what in this House is insulting the victims, in this case the victims of Bleiburg were being insulted because I do not think it is dignified, it is not principled so from whom it came to insult those victims. To all the victims should bow down, they need places to mark but to insult the victims that they are the babes as they say or are the Ustashas, I think it is not as nice as he said before, and that this thread is dignified or peaceful and it is not in what it should be and it is in what it should be and that we should go back to the community and look ahead and write our history the way it should be and that is meant by well-founded scientific facts and of course we should talk about it. Once again, I express dissatisfaction because, as far as I know, schools have very little to say about the Homeland War, it is of course not the fault of this report or your work, but the fact that the Homeland War has been discredited, discriminated, and in fact it hasn't been very good. We remember only the messages from the arrest of our generals when we joined the EU, we had to arrest all the generals, we had to worship Carly Del Ponte as a saint, instead of 17 documents from the Office of President Stisa Mesic then 17 helmets, I think, without having removed qualifications from these documents, and later Vladimir Seks continued this persecution during Ivo Sanader, so the governments were involved in the defilement of the Homeland War and of course that at one point caused a bad feeling in the Croatian people and Croatian defenders. Of course, when we talk about the missing, then we need to talk about the missing, here I am now, reminding you of my proposal to my colleagues and colleagues, that we have Peace Day and Dr. Ivan Schreter, then neither HDZ nor his coalition partner accepted his name after Dr. Ivan Schreter and indeed the man we have to remember, it was a man who called for peace, there is much addressed to this problem as Mr. Degorcija testifies, a lot of Milorad Pupovac, but these people today are key people in the management of Croatian politics. So here I am, and today I'm interested, the family is interested, the people in that area, what about dr. Ivan Šreter, while these people are being attacked at the same time, is being praised by a Shoskocan who is mentioned as a Serbian hero who was Ustasha, who are our Croatian police officers and similar monuments in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. Of course we should mention and do so, here's what you said outside the report now in this speech, that's what we should talk about, so this part of the role of war in BiH is that the Croats were essentially those who defended BiH, the Croatian soldier stopped major crimes, the criminal Ratko Mladic in the area of the Bosnian enclave, would have built bigger crimes if it hadn't been for Croatian soldiers than he did over the Muslim population of Bosniaks in Srebrenica. So the Croatian soldier deserves the truth, the Croatian soldier is a victorious soldier and it should be emphasized and without scientific facts, research, scientific means to prove and it is true and without that truth we will be hard to go forward because we will always have and of course the political considerations are allowed but we must not insult the victims and any sides fall. Any dead by someone who has a star on his head, who has an U or... The victim is a victim so saddens me that we still have in Parliament a man says that '45. It didn't end, so we should have continued, uh, I mean it's terrible messages, I condemn it, I condemn for what we were in the Homeland War uniquely in the same trenches, we didn't exactly see who was the Ustasha grandfather, whom we were partisan, but who we created in the community, and I believe that returning to history is insulting the victims of any and victims of Bleiburg, the cross road or any of the victims doesn't contribute to the improvement in the Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, on behalf of the club MOST, we will support this report with the hope that the Croatian Government will find both resources and human resources, I don't even know how much you need it, whether it should be at the Documentation Centre, you didn't mention it here, maybe increase your capacity and as far as finance is concerned, and as far as human resources are concerned, it's simply that some things should not go away, but mostly as far as we're concerned, I'd like you to tell us that this is a very important historical topic for us, and here I expect the representatives of the Government to provide enough resources, and from us fellow parliamentary representatives to support it, and that, above all, this is more of course scientific facts, the truths about the Homeland War, because the Croats have nothing to be ashamed about the Homeland War. The Croatian man carried out a victorious Croatian soldier, a soldier with whom we are trying to be proud, a soldier who freed the Republic of Croatia, and of course who helped survive BiH. So thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142302	Thank you, too. Before continuing, please welcome the students of the elementary school and the pupils of Ivan Benkovic from Dugi Selo who have now joined us. Good afternoon and welcome. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ colleague Željko Raguž. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142303	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, Director Nazor, colleagues and fellow MPs, Report The Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War 2017 is a systematised document representing the activities of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in 2017. Namely, this transparency is reflected through the analysis of individual departments operating within the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, Department of Archival Activity, Department of Scientific Research, Department of Cultural Educational Activity, but ultimately we have a systematic report on the operation of the centre with detailed financial contributions. What is crucial and thanks to Director Nazor for stressing in the framework of the report on the work of the centre the need for scientific research of war in the field of BiH for the reason that regardless of the different interpretations of the war in the Republic of Croatia and BiH there is a connection and that the link, therefore, of the wars in the area of the Republic of BiH, was also the subject of abuse in the public of the Republic of BiH, and particularly at international level through the processes at The Hague criminal court. What is important to emphasise, and which is neglected that although it has been 20 years and more since the end of the war, there are doubts about key processes in the war in Croatia and BiH due to the influence of therefore interest primarily the key forces in the international community that have sought to create, interpret the events of work in Croatia and BiH in line with their interests. In particular, this was expressed in court proceedings in The Hague. Although decades behind the war, especially in BiH, is a very small number of scientific discussions and works on war in BiH, there is a large publicist on the war in BiH, written from the perspective of the interests of warring parties in BiH and which has relied on some of the interests of key forces in the international community. It is less in science in the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately also in the sciences of Europe and the world when the war in BiH is the same as I said about the BiH war. Why is that? Mr. Nazor said numerous crimes against Croats have been committed in the Central Bosnia area. On June 8th, 18 bodies killed by the BiH Army in the village of Bikosa, Malina in central Bosnia and Herzegovina and the municipality of Travnik will be buried within 10 days. When a trial was conducted against the commander of the Bosnian Muslim Army of the BiH Army at The Hague criminal court, various experts were made to seek reality, the fact of the conflict in the area, I'm sorry, Central Bosnia. Interestingly one of the documents done by the UN commission, which, in its analysis, handles the actions and conflicted armies in the Central Bosnia area, but also paramilitary formations as described in the analysis, so let's say the Mujahedin forces, so Islamic volunteers who participated, thousands of them, took part in a war in BiH called the forces that supported BiH. It is in these particulars, therefore, that the UN based on The Hague criminal court should seek the reasons for the subsequent verdicts against the commander of the Bosnian Army of the BiH Army. That is why the commander of the BiH Army was released for this crime committed in Mali in the area of Travnik municipality where Mujahedinians who were part of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army killed 37 Croatian civilians and captured members of the Croatian Defence Council. So if you call someone to support Bosnia and Herzegovina, then you can't bring a verdict to that, so all the mujahedins involved in this committed crime are amnesty for war crimes. Although the mujahedins in this process testified at The Hague criminal court that they were ordered by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army to clean Croatian villages from the Croatian population in the Travnik municipality, it was simply not an argument enough to rule against the commander of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army, Rasim Delic. Not only in this process, in the process of the 3rd Bosnia and Herzegovina Army commander acting in central Bosnia and Herzegovina's field, the crimes committed by any mujahedin, whether members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army over Croats in central Bosnia and Herzegovina, are also being handled. He also received a minimum sentence as well as a commander of the 7th Muslim brigade Amir Kubura, which was appointed by the Government of Sarajevo County in 2012 to 2 administrative councils – the Faculty of Political Sciences in Sarajevo and the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics. There are interesting reactions to international structures, including the UN Prosecutor's Office of Criminal Court, who objected when, say, Serbia's general military Lazarevic came out of prison after a trial at The Hague criminal court held a lecture in Serbia on all organisations not only at international level, but also in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia. But it is not noted that similar relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina in the international community have been completely silenced, including by chief Hague prosecutor Brammertz. The Republic of Croatia because of its relationship with the Homeland War, especially because of the lack of understanding that this topic cannot be subject to politicisation that has been happening for years in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, is simply a major damage. Not only through Hague processes led against Croatian military commanders in The Hague, but especially through processes led against members of the Croatian Council of Defence or the political military leadership in Bosnia and Herzegovina for reasons that did not understand the hypocrisy of international structures that had not equally treated the crimes committed when the perpetrators were members of the Croatian Defence Council, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army or the Republika Srpska Army. It is evident from a series of processes that there is no equal criterion and that there is therefore the influence of the countries that stood in The Hague criminal court to use The Hague as an instrument for creating political solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina especially in the post-war period. So let's say in the aforementioned process Rasim Delic had an alibi for liberating him from responsibility because on that day when a crime was committed in the municipality of Travnik he was only even though he was appointed commander during the day he was reportedly only on the occasion of taking over the commander's duties in the late evening hours. In the process of the late General Praljak similar situation because General Praljak handed over duty in the Mostar area before the bridge was torn down, it was not enough argument, the old bridge in Mostar was not sufficient to justify the fact simply and not processed under the criminal responsibility of General Praljak and the other Hague six-members. Double standards are key. Why in the public of the Republic of Croatia are double standards that are not sufficiently understood today decades after the end of the war on occasion in different ways to interpret events from war not only in Croatia, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina? These double standards are primarily evident in terms of major forces towards the war in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. A short time ago, I said that the mujahedin troops of thousands of mujahedins were called forces that supported Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, of course, those forces were support and great powers when wars began in Syria, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan. So these forces that support democratic processes when they turn against some of the great forces become terrorist organisations. They were also terrorist organisations during their activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But as it is a small Croatian people, it has simply been left to these terrorist organisations to live up to the few Croats in the Central Bosnia area and not to move responsibility towards the political and military leadership of Bosniaks who brought these terrorist organisations to the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. This fact has created in the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina a belief in Bosniak political structures, including Serbian structures in Republika Srpska that Croats are unprotected and that there are simply many abuses in this area. Director Nazor mentioned the crimes committed by members of Republika Srpska's army in Brisevo village between Prijedor and Sansko Most in July 92 when 67 Croatian civilians were killed. These days in Brisevo are the broken monuments of the injured Croats precisely because of the lack of protection of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly by international structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These days, there is also a hysteria in Bosnia and Herzegovina about archives, parts of the HV archive in the Republic of Serbia, until it is at the same time asked what is wrong with the archives of the BiH Army, the Republika Srpska Army and why they are not available for scientific research. The HDZ Club will support the report of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre for 2017 because it is a matter of too important activity and of the value of the institution for contemporary Croatian history because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142304	Thank you, we continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Bauk. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142305	I would like to thank the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP advocates' club will support this report, the centre's activity is based on the 2004 law, it serves to best demonstrate or determine or promote the truth about the Homeland War because we estimate that truth is always the best ally of all those who have fought righteous wars and that part of the truth that may not fit the general picture but is good sometimes to be aware of their mistakes. Since this is already a regular annual debate on the report of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, it is specifically a report for 2017, but I think that in the debate in the Assembly very rarely refers to something that was that year, but is always for some reason talking about things that may be current at that moment, so this is 2019, I think there is no need for a parliamentary debate on the report of the centre and supporting the work and activity of the centre and for future turn into a round table on some topics of closer history or a little further history, and in that sense, I will not engage in that kind of assessment. If there is a need to look at some facts further, let the center organize a round table or in some other way, and then it certainly wants to in that sense, it can respond. And expressing support for the work of the center and the report, that's where I'm going to finish my debate, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142306	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on behalf of the MPs' club, we continue with an individual debate, the first colleague is Miro Bulj, here is my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142307	Thank you very much, I would just briefly repeat what I said, in fact I won't repeat myself, just once again commending myself on my own behalf just before the club, the work of the Memorial Documentation Center, to continue on that path,... If more resources are needed, more human resources within the centre itself, that should be strengthened and I think that you should also talk about it to the esteemed director, to talk about what the situation is, in general, because of better work, whether it takes finance or any other because your work has been noticed, your work is unanimously supported by everyone here and I hope that we will finally speak civilised about the victims and that we will no longer show the victims as some kind of grandmother, Ustasha or something, but that we will honor each victim properly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thank you again, you have support, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142308	Replica, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142309	So now it's the fifth time a colleague of Bulls has twisted my words, so I have to react. When it comes to the victims of Bleiburg, it is generally claimed that they were members of the Ustasha army, a Ustasha soldier who retreated from the Partizan forces, and on the other hand, it is said that these people were killed without a court of law, which represents a war crime and that they were killed there and that they were mostly civilians, women and children, elderly women, meaning grandmothers. I asked here whom these Ustashas judged, those who were killed without trial in Jasenovac, in Glina, here in the square of the victims of fascism where was the Ustasha prison, whom they judged? You who are sympathetic to them and who are terribly sorry that they were killed without a court of law, answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142310	Thank you, time, reply to the line, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142311	Comrade Stazic, a crime is a crime and your statement is at least morbid where you said it was '45. It didn't end and it had to continue on Bleiburg. Therefore, all the victims were made who had a drop star, U, gambling or anything, if the victim, the victim was, I don't justify any crime and I bow to every victim, and what you said about Bleiburg and the victims is more than morbid and sad in that way talking about people who lost their lives in the way they lost and, of course, all the other victims. So I'm asking my fellow councillors here to be worthy of our victims and not to share in our victims, the only thing we can do is bow down with dignity, bow down, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142312	Thank you, we continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Irena Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142313	Thank you very much, I welcome the Director of the Centre and welcome the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture. When we had this report last year, I remember then saying that as far as the centre's funding is concerned, I think that this amount that the centre gets is very modest for everything that the centre is expected to do and we know that, among other things, the role of the centre is very important for the future without a view because it speaks of the past. And about the role and importance of the centre we've already heard about, and we could talk about it, I'm glad that this report always gets the support of all clubs because it deserves it, and what I'm not going to say, I'm not going to talk about individual cases on purpose because I'm going to say something in principle about the role and purpose of the center and what we should be able to think about as Parliament's representatives, or help make it better, because we know that when all kinds of interpretations occur then these interpretations last for decades and sometimes for centuries, and that what happens to us in spite of the great period of time, they haven't received their interpretations which they should have received, and that's why it's important for us to do so. Because nowadays, the role of the centre is even more important because the time when everything is very, very easy to relativize, where everything can be questioned with a few publications on social networks where even more needs to talk facts about the Homeland War, where it is even more necessary to teach young people especially primary school students and high school students about what it was and what it was like to not have happened to us in 20, 30, 40 or not to say 100 years of all historical facts are out of relativized, from trivialised and not to come up with the scientific thesis of falsification of history because I think it can happen that it's not something that's impossible, and we're here to prevent it. And this is the important role of this center and, of course, the role of this centre is not just culturally historical educational and scientific activities exist there and other activities, it is important to be visible with facts. I have seen in this report that a certain level of presence in modern media is as much as possible depending on human resources, but above all on financial resources, but I would certainly as someone who deals with this area of information technologies have put emphasis on the fact that it is very important to be visible on these technologies or on social networks on the Internet for an institution such as the centre so that what I just said doesn't happen. And first of all, it is important today to influence as much as it sounds corny today, to reduce this ideological division as much as possible, not in a way that relativises history, because every historical fact is important and it is not a product of arbitrary interpretation, but in order to sort of clarify what we need not then clear out in the future. It's something that's important because as far as I can see, there's a certain tendency in the media, and above all in the media that are in the so-called media. The region, though I do not like that name, but let's say in Southeast Europe or the Western Balkans, as some call it. The desire to equate guilt or what has nothing to do with facts, which is to relativise the Homeland War, to equalize the victim and the aggressor, I think that this centre is dealing with, but it needs to be dealt with even more naturally and more depending on the financial resources. Because we can't as Parliamentarians expect someone to do their job quality without giving him those basic terms and conditions, especially financial means, if we want the possibility of hiring new people, so if we want to, and that these people have all the conditions they need to have. So when we ask you to go meet with technology and meet with time, then we have to make sure that it requires and certain financial resources, and that's why I stress that. Because we see that they are often used in a section of certain literature as well as in terms of putting it, I found an appointment under the control of an area. The term putting under the control of an area for something that should be said that occupation is one terrible deminutive which at this point may not seem scary to someone, but if this deminutive enters the historical textbooks, in literature, in the minds of people, in the minds of children, then after 50 years it will really be the term of putting under control of an area then it will no longer be an occupation, and we are talking about a time span of 20 or 30 years, and how it will only be 50 years later. It's an aggression, it's an attack, it's not a control of an area, and there's other syntagms that are consciously inserted into certain literature, that literature is further distributed, and it's a kind of information war, and it's a kind of counterfeiting right now at the beginning, and later it can metastasize how it's going to be the course of a certain time. And so we can't talk about civil war either, we can't talk about what I've just stated, and we can't put such aspirations and findings into the world that we're dealing with. We should speak clearly and in fact, and I think that despite the lack in my personal opinion, in my humble opinion of the financial means at this point, it is doing well, and I think that as last year we should support this work, we should thank this work because this work is in the interest of all of us now, and especially in the interest of the future, although perhaps at this point we are not aware. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142314	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Vesna here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vuksanovic is very pleased and I agree with you, of course, that you have touched the questions of the financial resources at the centre. If we look at the financial report, then in 2017, about 3 million kunas and some thousand kunas in total, which, given their 14 years of work, they founded, I remind you, in 2005. and their 18 employees in a permanent working relationship are indeed, I would say, a small amount and therefore, first of all I commend the work of all the employees in the centre, the more the 18 employees currently have 7 doctors of science and four more who are currently in doctoral studies, and as far as I've seen from the data, their doctoral studies are funded from the centre's own incomes, which certainly It is necessary to take into account [[Intruder: Thank you...]] And commend them. [[Intruder:...you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142316	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142317	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Bedeković, as a person who deals with science and as colleagues, we can say that no scientific branch or area should be underestimated, regardless of the socialist or other sciences. Therefore, if the sum of the areas, the areas of the future, I agree with this and I belong to the part of these areas myself, then these areas that are concerned are also important and I believe that there should be a healthy balance in both financing and understanding of the importance of, of course, living from technology, that it is important for both medicine and genetics, etc., but also for the future of our people, it is important to be aware of all the facts and these events that the centre is responsible for not being interpreted in the future in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142318	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Sunchana Glavak, here's your colleague, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So anyway, as my colleagues have spoken so far, I welcome Mr. Nazora's director, I think that first of all, representatives of some of the HS should be familiar with the facts or the jurisdiction of the Memorial Documentation Centre, and then not to speak very superficially or completely wrongly about his role as we just had opportunities and hear, therefore, verified and scientific facts, that is, among other things, what the Memorial Documentation Centre is dealing with, collects, archives the building, sums it up, preserves it, and scientificly processes it. What I would particularly like to stress and praise the role of directors and all employees, it is to present the acquired structure throughout the Republic of Croatia or through scientific gatherings or through exhibitions which were both in 2017 and 2018, and during this year, therefore, throughout the Republic of Croatia, and I think that this is the particularly added value of what they are doing under the given circumstances. I'll just remind you it's 2017. The centre also took over from the MUP of the Republic of Croatia, including the Vukovar-Srijem Police Administration in 1991-1998, the large size of the building and that they were equally systematically working on its archiving, on facts and on everything that was happening in those years. Similarly, scientific gatherings are needed in order to clearly and in the new circumstances or different interpretations of what was happening, to speak clearly about it and repeat who was the victim, and who was the aggressor during the Homeland War, and I think that we need to revive this year-to-year in public space. What I would like to be maybe more, is that through our educational education system, in some ways more of this matter is studied, more of the employees of the Memorial Documentation Centre, so that from those primary schools, through high schools, in an adequate way, everything that happened during the Homeland War, and as I said earlier, scientifically established and factually. I believe that Mr. Nazor and his associates will continue to do so, a colleague of Petrijevcanin also said something about the financial opportunities that the centre has at its disposal, of course and on us the representatives, who are also the center of the report, that we are also concerned about, and that we will also have opportunities when there will be a proposal for a state budget, that we may say a word, a word about it. To preserve the memory of the victims, of everything that happened during the Homeland War, but I think it is equally important to remind ourselves of the new circumstances in our environment, in the global environment, which is that the world has changed, that global circumstances have changed and that one of the important facts is the safety factor, the security we did not have during the Homeland War because we were not, for example, members of NATO alliances, we were not in associations that provide us with security, so these days when we talk about the success of our armed forces, the need to strengthen the armed forces and the circumstances that are here and in neighbouring countries, tensions that are around us, I think we should never forget what happened when we were attacked since then by the other or third forces of the world. Finally, I will support the report of course, Mr. Nazor is doing well with his associates his work, and I think that as representatives we can give our contribution in what I mentioned earlier, from educational institutions to promotion in any way and advocate for what not a single centre can, not a single institution, which is primarily this financial framework that must allow for the dissemination, and also by owning a valuable structure that needs to be adequately said by a colleague of Petrijevčan, and digitising or transferring to new media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142320	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit, this is colleague Vesna Bedekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142321	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, I am pleased that you, therefore, have once again underlined, as have some colleagues before you, the importance, therefore, of the roles of the centre regarding how to organise scientific and professional gatherings and various public hearings, as well as participation in the same, and in the same way as I consider it very, very important and immeasurably important, I would call it the educational activity and activities of the centre related to the conduct of different lectures on our educational and educational institutions, whether it be basic schools, secondary schools or colleges. I personally had the opportunity to participate several times and attend the lectures that Dr. The attitude held up our students and students. And I find that extremely important and extremely important in terms of raising our young generations to avoid, according to avoidance... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142323	... fact and truth about the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142324	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142325	Thank you very much. Well, it's very short. I think they have something to do for the next 10 years to present the building in the best possible way. What you published, as well as through exhibitions and through various conventions, conferences or the like. And in any case, I support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142326	My colleague Vuksanovic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142327	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Glavak, I have raised this replica to you because you mentioned an education system in relation to this report. As we have also recently opened this topic, I think it is very important that we, as parliamentary representatives, become aware of the fact that the education system must achieve a healthy balance between all areas. And it wouldn't be a good idea for a curricula to have certain shortcomings in the sense that it underestimates certain topics and certain areas. This should not happen to us because, I repeat, that people who neglect their history or past in terms of the education system and only put the emphasis on some future state of the area, etc. Not diminishing the importance of one or the importance of another, it will do itself harm in the long run because I believe that history has already shown that it has been in the case of certain other peoples. I think technology is important, but this is also equally important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142328	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142329	Thank you very much. Yes, actually in these replicas we agree on what we wanted to emphasize. The technology, yes, the new media, that first of all and to preserve the building that was coming, we know that it was also collected from private archives, that there was also... and that there were amateur videos, that there were various photographs of course that couldn't resist the time. And that is why it is necessary to digitize it in order to preserve it. But in any case, we need to find mechanisms to bring this back to life in this way that you said, which is, of course, through the education system in any sense, and I believe that we too can help all of us who, in any way, are involved in culture, regardless of what we are representatives or what we do in science. Therefore, each person can give his pain in his own personal way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142330	Thank you. The next individual debate is a debate between fellow Culei. Here you go, colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142331	Dear Mr. Nazor, thank you and the Homeland War Documentary Centre for all that it does in order to give one result in its work that I hope will be recognized in the future and in a true and just way accepted by everyone in Croatia, so that we do not witness these ideological and secular struggles that we witness here in the Croatian Parliament where everyone, according to what he heard from his ancestors, speaks in the way that suits him best. So it's possible when we talk about victims to put them in Ustashas or partisans or I don't know which others, but the victim is the victim. We are witnessing that they are doing so and are already prepared for each such debate, where they will display in their own way what they have heard from someone. I would like to make a contribution here, as I have given it to the five exhibitions that I have presented in the Croatian Parliament, which have not been accompanied by those different worldsmen and witnesses of the true truths that we witnessed in the Homeland War, which is that we all bear witness to what we have survived, to bear witness to the truth and to convey it in the name of those who cannot convey it. Two exhibitions about the fall of Vukovar or the destruction of the City of Vukovar, about killing Croatian defenders from Ovčara to other sites. Three exhibitions about Borov Selo, about the events that were there, killing Croatian directors, not to mention that after all, and also after that third exhibition that I became a witness and we ourselves were the main culprit of the killing of 12 directors to have a mausoleum, a monument as a hero in Croatia. And he who replaced him was freed from the Supreme Court of Croatia. For his commanderships in Borovo Sela as commander of the TO Defence Staff, 83 were killed not by Serbs. We are witnesses of the truth that has happened and we have witnessed these injustices that are being carried out today. If only I could say that I have in my hand document number 81 Report by Petra Lungova to Jordan Mackarrov on visits by foreign officials accredited in Zagreb to the Croatian concentration camp Jasenovac, Zagreb, 7 February 42. The central state archive of the Republic of Bulgaria from the book "Wars of Mercy" Diana Glasnov translated into Croatian and where it is available to every quasi historian to determine what happened in Jasenovac. But we're still burned and we belong to the flossulas that everyone in Bleiburg was a Ustasha. And maybe they were Indians, because they found a lot of braids and long hair there? Maybe they weren't girls? Who knows whose they are? Mr. Nazor, I know exactly what problems you've been facing in your work and I didn't find it hard not to look for a bit. I say – scandal in the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War, "Intelligencer Krajina set to investigate the Homeland War" is one title. What's this about? Each government in an effort to bring its own ideology and worldview closer to its historical truth will abolish the commissions to determine the victims of war and porn, will do much to show some of their truths that could be convenient, suitable for what they are up to. So says – The Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the Government and the Ministry of Culture, Zlatar Vijolic, from the Croatian Council of Directors of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, replaces prominent historian Franjo Šanjek and sets up a relatively unknown sociologist and assistant at the Zagreb Faculty of Philosophy Kron Kardov and Cedomir Višnić. Here's another example of Cardo's mental circuit when it comes to the Homeland War. During his visit to Belgrade's B92 television in November 2004, he said: "When the war really ended for someone it was a relative thing. It ended in 92, for someone 95, and for someone 98." It was even more scandalous that the HMDCDR Council had just appointed Cedomir Višnić, who was the intelligence officer of the military during the war, so-called. The landscapes. There is a document confirming that Cedomir Višnic co-operated in 92 with representatives of the 13th brigade of the Serbian army, TZV São Krajina, that he provided information that he acted in the area. What's going on? Who are these people who were supposed to investigate the truth and write us historical books about the Homeland War? Whose people are they? Who were they working for? Who were they fighting for? Who are these and those who spar with our Croatian for whom the defenders gave their lives? Whose people are these? Whose sleepers are the five-wheelers? We can call them whatever we want. Traitors. With what purpose do they do their unholy work? What are they predetermined for? What history did our children have in mind? If it weren't for such people as Mr. Nazor and his likes who did their best to turn the truth about the Homeland War into historical books, into documents that would testify to what was happening, we could learn in possible future historical books that Vukasin Šushkchanin was a hero of the civil war, that Radenko Alava his deputy was unjustly suspected of being a war criminal. So what was 83 Serbs killed in some school of Bozidara... in Boro's Village next to the Danube? Who does that mean anything to besides those whose families and parents ended up there and their sons? It doesn't mean anything to anyone. Not to mention my colleague, the esteemed Bauk, said he would support your report. I have no doubt he won't. How could it not be if, at the time of the government of Tomislav Karamark, he was the chairman of the Justice Committee, so we met at a working meeting of Minister Sprlje, Minister Tomo Medved, historian and others where Mr Bauk, as chairman of the Committee, did not come, where until the last second no one knew who was going to lead the session, so I also got the opportunity to chair that session unprepared. At exactly 10:00 p.m., the manager came to me and said you'd be chairing this session, Mr. Bauk was prevented he can't come. Couldn't he have told me for a minute? And it was about the struggle for our hashic prisoners for Praljko and others, to appear at the end of that session. And not to say that a fellow lawyer, the esteemed coat of arms, left that same session. He's so worked up with all his strength to help the Hague dignitaries. And for the end, it can't be cream without ending up on a cake. Lora Vidovic, acting Attorney General of the 9th Battle of the Croatian Army, calls the Croatian Army from the Homeland War an Ustasha battle on a fully official occasion at the Conference for 10 years of the application of the Law on Discontinuation of Discrimination in Croatia. Who's Laura Vidovic? What kind of work does she do? It Ustashas, discriminates against the HOS unit that has left 10 of its members for this country of Croatia and is rewarded and paid for by Croatian Ustasha kunas as many like to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142332	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague, Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142333	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, you must once know that this war is about underestimating the Homeland War, I mean the Homeland War. And everyone else you talked about is clear to us that in Croatia the truth is very, very hard to pass. Every lie will pass, but the truth won't. Especially the historical truth of this war, and this Second World War and World War I. We just heard... They don't have anyone because they don't care about that. [[You don't understand.]] The other day, they had an exhibition by Tito, his birthday, and they celebrated HTV before, and whoever canceled the five-pointed, committed a crime for them is still not a crime. Certain people. We wonder when and when the truth will be, let's lie to fight in this Croatian state that we will never come to the real truth and be happy once and say it's the truth no matter whose crime it was. Sam Tito admitted that he killed 570,000 Croats, they proudly want him today To celebrate from the ashes to lift it up and say.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142334	Thank you. Replication response. Thanks, buddy. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142335	Celebrating one of the historical characters that is among the world's 10 greatest murderers can only be a complete ignorant or one who knows the truth about it but is malicious for selfish reasons because one of his accomplices may also be an accomplice to the crime of this monstrous 20th century murderer, Jože Broz, called Tito. The only locksmith in history I know played the piano.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142336	Here you go, pal Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142337	Dear Chairman, colleague Culej and I wanted to commend you in this part that you have at least held on to this topic in most of your presentations, and the topic is the Croatian Memorial Center of the Homeland War, which is very exhaustive and where you have made some of your findings about some of the events that have been and some people, and I think it will also contribute to the fact that the truth about the Homeland War is rightly pointing out because I, as a participant of the Homeland War, am today a witness that some things are trying to prove themselves wrong. Thank God the Homeland War was a war where all Croats or at least the great majority fought on one side and that's why we won that war. Let us not let ourselves be divided again in peace today and return to some divisions of history that are not good and that have never brought anything good to the Croatian people, so we stick to the Homeland War as a standstill for the creation of a new Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142338	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142339	To tell the truth about any war and about the Homeland and World War II can only be spoken from professional analysis and documents showing the role of individuals, groups and peoples. You have to know precisely the causal and consequential relationship, at which point the event occurred. Also while investigating the murder of 12 Croatian directors in Borovo Selo, I managed the testimony of the true defenders who were in the event. I made a round table and only in this way can the truth about the Homeland War be described in quality, written down, and even better true story from police reports that worked by our hardworking police inspectors, who never saw the light of day, and also not because of those who control the whole situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142340	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation of colleague Vuksanovic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142341	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Culej, I only raised the line for the reason that you said that Bozidar Maslaric's primary school in Borovo settlement is Vukovar-Srijem County, but it is in Dalje, it is Erdut municipality or Osijek-Baranja County, so that we do not talk about misinformation, and we disinformation ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142342	Thank you. Here's your answer. Okay. We're continuing an individual debate. The last reported in an individual debate is colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, my respect for Mr. Nazor, Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War and State Secretary Dr. Polack. First of all, I would like to take advantage of the occasion, thank Dr. Nazor for taking part in the creation of a curricula of history, and we know that it was a rather long-term and painful process that required a lot of concentration, a lot of arguments and a lot of patience, and here are some personal contacts with him, but also from here on in some of the events I followed I know that it was quite exhausting process, Dr. Nazor I thank you. I also use the opportunity to praise this report not only its technical performance, the way in which the report was presented to us in its shortened or in this other broader version but also in everything that is described inside it, and it is evident that during 2017 the activity that the centres were numerous and diverse and in some way here I will use my time to make a short summary. Of course, first of all, it should be recalled that the centre was founded as a public scientific institution, first of all, and then a specialized archive. In this sense, as a central archival and scientific institution for monitoring and protecting and archiving archive buildings from the Homeland War and in this sense, the basic tasks of the center are collection, collection, preservation, and then professional and scientific research and what is important is the publication of the Homeland War building. As we have already said, the centre knows that it was founded in 2005. Here we now have with today's year a total of 14 years if the work center, if we look at it from the perspective of 2017, is a little less years, and with that point in 2017, the centre has 18 employees, I don't know if the figure in this year has grown, I'm glad, I'd be glad to, I'll explain why. And it's important to repeat again that among those 18 employees there are 11 doctors and those 4 who are currently still in place and I believe that some of them have completed doctoral studies, and these are what I would say are the capacities of the collection, storage, scientific research and building archiving centre. With some of the employees as I've seen here having passed exams related to the preservation of the archive building, which I think is extremely important. So calling an expert, senior archivist, archivist and two employees with the calling of an archival technician which I think is extremely important for proper storage of archival building. And so these are in some way the human capacities of the center for, when it comes to collecting and preserving and researching buildings from the Homeland War, and as we have already said financing at the annual level in 2017, about 3 million and 300,000 kunas, which I personally consider to be a relatively small sum, is a modest sum for all that the centre does. If we look a little bit more closely at the short-term report then we will see that the publishing activity in that year spent 170 thousand kunas, cultural education activity 40,000, the collection of the very memory material 20 thousand, the purchase of 40,000, the protective recording of the archive material 60 thousand, the information of 25 thousand, I think it's all modest sums for all of what the centre is doing and, of course, when the time comes to create a new budget as Assembly representatives, at least I personally advocate that these amounts increase as much as possible. What I think is the great value of the centre, of course, that comes from one of its tasks, which is professional and scientific research and publication of materials. I believe that just now a scientific approach is important and important for objective and based on scientific facts, the approach shown to lighting up events from the Homeland War. So first of all, this scientific approach for me involves, therefore, the foundation of the display so that everything that happened in the Homeland War, first of all, in fact, facts and, of course, the testimony of all those who participated in the Homeland War, so that the historical method would identify the causal linkages and objectively show all that was happening, and all this is immensely important, as some of us have already pointed out in the replicas so in individual exhibitions that it would avoid the relativeisation of facts and the truth about the Homeland War and also prevent the attempt of revisionism of facts from closer to Croatian history and, above all, of the history relating to the Homeland War and therefore avoid first of all the equating of victims and aggressors. What I find particularly important is that, among other things, it is quite important, with everything I have said about the publishing activity of the centre. I found here a data, one collected that from the draft centre to 2006, since 2006 so when the work started until 30 March 2017, the centre published a total of 80 books on its own or in co-breeding, so this is a very, very significant opus with the organization of both scientific and professional assemblies and public stands, so a number of other works, I think it is a very valuable fundus and of course we all need to give a boost to empowering activities so that this fund will, therefore, be increased and increased. And here I will especially point out that in 2017 it is also an indicator of how this fund is growing from year to year, so we have information that in 2017 it is either issued or prepared for a total of 17 scientific and professional works. I kind of need to get some sort of impression of what the papers were about, so what was written, highlighted some of the headlines of these 17 papers. So the Catholic Church in Croatia and the Homeland War, for example, then the history of women and archives, archivist practice, for example. in the materials of the Women's Peace Associations of the Homeland War. So let's say the work of the Republika Srpska government in '91. '95. A year. So let's say here's my field of cooperation for the Croatian defenders of the Virovitsk region. JNA aggression and troops of rebel Serbs in Zadar and Zadar hinterland. Digital archival material of The Hague Court as a source for research into a newer Croatian history, the special unit of Kutina-Ris police. Then Slavonski Brod in the period from March to October of '92. years, freeing the Croatian south. So let's say JNA in an attack on Sibenik, a brief demonstration of the process of independence, that is, occupation and liberation of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. Very valuable contributions, therefore, the works relating to the chapters in the textbooks for the history of the authors Brigovic and Nazor, therefore related to the elementary school, here we see that it is dedicated to the press, I believe that it is already published. And of course what I personally had a chance to have in my hands and read a very, very valuable book, I would say monograph, which was organized by Nazor and Pushek, the Homeland War, a review of diplomatic history, so one very, very valuable testimony, a valuable book. Why am I saying that? I return to the importance of passing objective facts especially on to our young generations so that the newer Croatian history is based primarily on scientific facts and that the Homeland War and everything that has happened in the Homeland War will be presented in a proper manner as the heritage that we leave to our young generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142344	Thank you, colleagues. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First up, he's a colleague of Ragug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142345	You emphasized the contribution of the centre to the education of young people in contemporary Croatian history, especially the history of the Homeland War and the busyness of Director Nazor to occupy that in the context of the study of history in the Republic of Croatia, important topics from the time of the Homeland War. I would just add that Mr. Nazor has sought within this busyness to contribute positively to school programmes from history in the Republic of Croatia emphasized part of the study of concepts that are important for understanding the common history of Croatians Croatia and BiH such as Turkey, such as Banovina Croatia, because these are precisely the concepts of Banovina Croatia were abused in the political life of the Republic of Croatia both through judicial processes and at international level. And I appreciate that your assessment of the key contribution and education of young people is particularly important because it also highlights the value of an institution such as the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142346	Thank you. Here you go. ... Okay, okay, thank you very much, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, buddy. Replica, you, you, go ahead, Comrade Djakic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director with an associate. Comrade Vesna, you've all described what it is to be an institution that deals with scientific works, gathering materials and cities. And it is clear that in these materials there is true evidence that is actually available to the Croatian public, all of our institutions, but it seems to me that they are being used poorly. If all orders signed by the Serbian province's army with the name and last name and goals were processed, I think thousands would be convicted in the Republic of Croatia. Because the truth is shown in these publications as it is, what's trapped by the material is handed over to the memorial documentation center, there it's archived, processed and presented. And I'm glad there's a center like this that cares and cares about it... who can certainly contribute to our institutions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruding Doncic: Thank you, colleague Djakić.]] The truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142348	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142349	Thank you very much. So that's why I pointed out the importance of a thorough, scientific approach, based above all on facts and then on the testimony of direct participants of all actions that took place in the Homeland War. And the third thing, therefore, is cause for consequential connections and putting everything where it belongs, archiving for future generations, and for future generations, as well as for action by the same, action, bravo, for the functioning of institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142350	Thank you. Now on behalf of the rapporteur, director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, Mr Ante Nazor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142351	First of all, I will take the opportunity to thank everyone who supported the work of our center, who you had the will and the time to attend this debate. And I must point out that during these years as we exist we have really had the support of the largest part of the Croatian Parliament and I am grateful for that. And I think this is a topic that can't be a party and that these reports over the years have shown that this is something that is superseded. When we mentioned finance, it was one of the questions, I completed the 2018 report and it will show that our centre in this year has received 500 thousand kuna more and more importantly what is not expressed through financial resources. Since the second half of 2018, you will see this in the new report one digitalisation project is carried out thanks to the initiative of the Croatian Defence Ministry, which includes our center and the huge resources that we should have and which is even more time that we should spend on digitising archive material, we have solved it, so I think that in 6 months when we count the end of last year and the beginning of this paper that we have digitized over the past years because now the organized team is doing it a little more massively. And I repeat thank you to the Croatian Defence Ministry, which has made it possible for us and these are the funds that are not shown through our financial budget but are also spent. We also got a new employee in 2019, you will see from the 2018 report that we started talking about it and what I consider the biggest grudge in our organization and work that is our website. And that's exactly what the Ministry of Culture recognized on the initiative of the Ministers, she suggested, we both accepted the lunches and together with the Lexicographic Institute we'll have a web platform about the Homeland War in the way they've already worked, they have experience in it, we'll do together to make that subject recognizable, to allow in every part of the world people who want to know something about the Homeland War from that shorter display to the more detailed display. Of course, the ultimate goal, which is why cooperation with the Lexicographic Institute is necessary to have a Lexicon of the Homeland War, where we will pass all persons, all events of course that we know about. I'm just going to briefly answer your questions and that's, you're here saying putting under control, some phrases, some concepts that apply, of course they're in order to cloud the facts. It can be justified that it's some stranger who's talking about our history. And here we have Croatian history in the Croatian state, in Croatian schools and there is no reason why when Serbian forces enter Vukovar we do not call it the right name and that is occupation. Or when the Croatian forces set Knin free that it was not put under control theoretically, but it was the release of territory that was internationally recognised, so we have no dilemmas about it, but you opened an interesting question because exactly the group that advocated such an approach history led that first curricular reform and vehemently fought over what we wanted fasting in this, and now it was achieved that there are mandatory topics from national history that cannot happen that are not presented through the education system. I think it's clear why. I won't go back to scandals at our center about change, but it was embarrassing to change academics and as president of the board of directors and to put a person who fully relativated an event that wasn't dealing with the Homeland War, I don't speak at all, I don't care who, where, any party or any institution belongs, each of us has his own works, I have analyzed these papers and in moments when the second-degree verdict was confirmed that Storm wasn't a criminal enterprise, that Generals Gotovina and Markac are not criminals and put in charge of the Board of Directors of the Centre of Culture, it wasn't part of the other system because it was all the opposite that was a provocation, it was one shameful act, but I repeat, it was only part that had power over the Ministry of Culture, it wasn't part of the other system, because it was also supported us, I said at the beginning, in all of our community support and thanking it. We've solved that question... employee, we have chronic pain, not only for us, but for all archives in the Republic of Croatia, space. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The plans are for the Kerestinec, they exist, I hope they will be realized, so here's something we should always warn about and that's what we're missing chronically. There was also a review of the curricula, a respected parliamentary representative who set it up, no, but I will answer, without false modesty or without some haughtiness with full responsibility, no one knows the history of the Homeland War better than our scientists, people who have been 20 years old. On the issue, I'm saying this from a practical example because the sources for the Homeland War are the MORH and the material of the Serbian implementation that is at our centre, I haven't seen those who speak or foreign, foreign historians that they used this material, and that is the primary material for understanding, especially what was happening in the Republic of Croatia, in our center there are hundreds of thousands of pages of documents of Serbian implementation, goals, who carried them out, everything exists. To this question of a respected parliamentary representative, he's gone, that all of these 20 books, documents, they're handed over where they should have been handed over, so the bodies that deal with it, they have all the data there. It is necessary in our education system to cultivate this feeling of national unity and we are this book that we write, it goes on, we took it a year, we translate it into English, we will also go to English translation, but how many of us are people who are born, go to the former building of the national library, today it is the Croatian State Archives, look at 5 pictures above that are painted, in these few years thousands of students, even tourist workers, no one has recognized all five pictures in the hall of our former national library. You know why? Because our question is, recognize these five Croatian cities throughout history, 4 is easy to recognize because they are still in the Republic of Croatia today, but the fifth nobody dares speak because the question is Croatian cities and when you say the royal city, and the fortress is a hill, everyone will tell Knin, and it's about the Egg. What do I want to say? I don't want to prejudge anything, of course today these two countries are internationally recognised, but we don't have the right to take history and we're obliged to interpret it. When we remember that this library was built in 1912 in secession art, that it was completed in 1913, it was dedicated to the use of the Croatian people on November 29th 1913, that date is always somewhere from the Hague judgments and revolves, then the one who painted the interior of the Croatian national library had a feeling for these cities, today we do not have it and let us wonder why it is so, so I insisted on Banovina croatian, so I insisted that the name Croatia in the second Yugoslavia is not only limited to the word Croatia, but also to Croatians, Croatia and Croats in another Yugoslavia, because Croatians do not only live in the Socialist Republic. I think this project, again we talked about, the 20th century victim in the Republic of Croatia or in the area where Croats live, is necessary if we want to overcome these ideological trenches, involve international scientists, have an international review and we are through 4-5. intensive research, a lot of things we can work out. I do not agree that the Homeland War in schools is not represented, in recent times it is much better, there are manuals, as well as calls for lectures, we often have them, I was recently in Samobor, both in Zagreb High School and in Imotski. So, this need to present the Homeland War exists, and I can't say it's negligible. As far as disagreements are concerned, I think that about the role of the Republic and Croats in BiH, I speak here as a man who, while I read only the newspaper, had a completely different approach to this issue, thanks to the insight into the material and the conversation with people throughout both the Republic of BiH and BiH, today my insight into this is completely different and I believe that in time, it is only necessary to break through that unfortunate media blockade, I am today asking a question and in the past report I asked the same question, how it is possible that in one of the prime TV shows on Sundays in 2 years when it was run, a run process in The Hague, they didn't have any of the commanders, let's say the Croatian Defence Council that could tell us something firsthand about it. A series of people feasted, spoke, falsely spoke, and unfortunately did not have a timely response from a leader who was obviously unprepared for such topics. What I'm saying as an expert is I'm not interested in anything else. Telled a lie Sunday at 2pm that BiH Army members did not, unlike Serbian troops and Croatians, tear down sacral objects today, look at the analysis of how many sacral objects have been destroyed in BiH, you will see that one third is just from members of the BiH Army. How can it promote the leader who prepares for the show is a second question, but unfortunately this witness is that in that prime time we could not get information from the first hand on such an important issue and there is a perception of the public you were talking about, this is the problem of the media in Croatia. As my colleague Bauk said, and the esteemed Assembly Representative Bauk here, we will not open round tables, and I agree with this through the report, but there have been talks about it, many round tables have been established, scientific literature has been published, but unfortunately it is not respected. And that's our problem. I do not have to repeat that the cause of war in Croatia is a large Serb policy, that this was not a civil war as much as we try to find some elements in theory, we can find the elements in everything, but it is this relativization and it may be that multi-spective approach that I consider to be good only in limited, not in comprehensive approach continues history. And here it is mentioned, and that is interesting to me, and that is why the second-degree verdict in the case of Prlic and the rest falls into the water in every scientific debate. This was about elements of the Croatian forces, the Croatian Army in particular in BiH, no one mentioned the elements of the assessment were between 700 and several thousand Mujahedin who were and in the BiH Army here was mentioned 7. The Muslim brigade, there is a division of El Mujahidin, so it is possible that someone noticed the compositions of HV, and not these others, but with full responsibility, I point out that in the war with Muslims as members of Croatian forces from Croatia, the HV was at no time more a formation of 1,400 people mostly scattered in a wide area from Mostar to Uskolje, mostly people originating in BiH, and now that is a problem. And now it's proof of some aggression. Take a look at the report of the First Military Area of JNA, for example, for the East Slavonia of '91. in the year 36, 37,000 JNA members, 9,500 members of Serbia's territorial defence, these are forces that go into aggression. This was an obligation to help, to patch the line. How is it possible for it to pass through such an institution as The Hague? These are the things that we do love. Look at Judge Antonetti's separate opinion, and you'll understand what I'm talking about, that's the man who read 64 transcripts from the President's Office, and I'm sure no one else in The Hague has read more transcripts, and especially not the colleagues I've quoted as discussing it, and no transcripts have read this. So, on my example, I am sure that at this moment when more sources come into the public, people will change their minds about what was happening on BiH territory, because what we were getting through the media was selective, it was trendy and unfortunately we got an opinion formed, and even in this assembly. Here, I get you, I thank you again and maybe just for the end of an anecdote. When we were telling me, when we talked about the reviews of the curricula of history we speak here only for the Homeland War, I know an example when an international review came back as a terrible mistake by colleagues, when he mentioned Kosovo's field not far from Knin, the reviewer said internationally, in a huge mistake Kosovo is 500km away from Knin. It was about that rally in '89. In the year, the Lazarica church in Kosovo not far from Knin, and the colleague replied to the gentleman is not 500 km away but 750 km away from the city of Knin, but we have our Kosovo field and there are the beginnings of the Serb rebellion. Therefore, it is difficult to talk to those who have not received the primary documents, and in part of the current policy of the Ministry of Science the emphasis is given exclusively on international competences, so I ask why we have the Croatian state, why we have the Croatian Institute for History, if they will talk to us about these topics or if they will be reviewed by people who are not interested, nor are they referred to. And I ask you that when that's discussed, to pay attention to it. And finally, Mrs. Honorable Parliamentarian Bedekovic said that we are a public scientific institution. We are, and I never lack the resources, we manage, we have the space we can work, we have our computers.../incomprehensible/... system, we will improve IT, we know how to get in collaboration with other people we get the means to publish a book, what bothers me as a man, as a director I'm a scientist. If I was going to do politics, I'd probably be in a party by now. The scandalous and surreal fact is that I am the director of a scientific institution treated according to some regulation as an official, not me, but also the director of the Croatian State Archives and director of the Croatian National Theatre. Think about the message, it's not, it's not from the beginning it's about 7, 8 years after, after this draft center was introduced into the regulation. Think about it I repeat myself scientist, I want and when I want and when I want to be a official I'm going to be a politician, now the law is going on so take care of it, it's not just me that it's about scientific institutions, cultural institutions, if there's going to be executives here, then we're not getting away from that system that we've been hoping to get out of forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142352	At your final presentation, we have 5 replicas, the first colleague is Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Nazor, you've described well everything you've been through lately. And I was impressed by what happened when the informant was at the head of your board. I remember those days when we discussed it on the War Veterans Committee and when we asked him to be replaced. But it is even harder to see when the state institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office, the Supreme Court, the county courts, do not use your praises of valuable materials that you have collected, sorted, archived and publicly available to them. So that the Hague court, for him, may even consider that he was biased in a number of things, so that when our state institutions didn't make an effort to read what was in those materials that were Serbian... I think he's going through this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Doncic: Thank you. We have an answer.]] /Intruding Doncic: Col. Djakić, thank you, answer./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142354	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142355	I understand your concern, but let's not generalize, I'm sure they've read a part of it, there's a problem in processing for evidence and everything. So, you wouldn't, because we're constantly in touch with these colleagues and people who work in the DORH, so it's just a question of how much things can be connected in these procedures it's another level, possibly that some part of it hasn't read, but let's not generalize, people are doing a responsible job that may not be seen through some results but I would stay away from generalization. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142356	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Vukasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142357	Thank you very much. Dear Director, something I've missed asking about the media. You mentioned one show, so on a daily basis we have over 25 local TVs, we have public media, etc. Whoever's tracking the media downtown and how the center is even fighting some malicious information, misinformation that's being placed in the media. You can't react on a daily basis or it's your job, you can arbitraryly do it yourself or one of the employees. We have the Institute of History, we have a center that is primarily the topic of Homeland War. What if something malicious is involved, some misinformation is released into the media, are you then arbitraryly reacting to this misinformation, do you have access to that media at all, or is someone from the Institute of History or some historian who is closer to the media, given that it is a selective activity for them and is primary to you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142358	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142359	So we react as much as we can and as far as we can and just in the new person who's employed, among other things, it's her duty to place current responses to such misinformation on that platform. A man must know English, of course, because it will go automatically into translation, to make it available to the international public. Because I'm going to tell you in particular now, it's Sunday at 2. I will repeat, seven, eight years ago on the show, the guest said Tudjman killed a third of Serbs, crossed a third, and Pavelic sleeps peacefully. And on some twisted issue of the leader that it wasn't very difficult what he said he just repeated that it was practically a Croatian Nazi state, what it was. And of course we sent a letter to TV, we responded to it, and the result was that after a few years the same person was again visiting on the same show and about similar thesis repeated. For some things, we are a democratic state, so the media is independent but I think we should be responsible and I just didn't accidentally warn about that show because things are repeating themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142360	Thank you. Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142361	Thank you very much. Mr. Director, here's the information I'm looking forward to, I really didn't know about the design, the intention of designing a web platform on which there will be construction available so on the Homeland War in Croatia I would say globally. And of course that's extremely important because I certainly agree with you when you say that no one has the right to take away our history but also that we owe history to interpret and then to pass on to young generations and not only history but also tradition, heritage and identity. And if we work on our own identity then we will also work on the national unity that, at the time of these globalisation processes, which carry a lot of good things but also have a devastating impact on small local cultures, it means a lot to us. And in that sense, what you do in schools and education, so not only education but also many lectures contribute certainly to future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142362	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142363	Mrs. Bedekovic, I would ask you here for cooperation, you are in a place that is very responsible. In fact, we have fought for the kind of curricula that it is, but following the textbooks, the activity of the agencies follows. After what happened, the Ministry of Science signed a contract with the Faculty of Philosophy, so I'm asking myself if it's in the act of shutting down agencies that play a very important role in our educational process that are independent of the Ministry and politics, at least they should be. It's on your board to discuss it. It goes into the second half, the textbooks are written. Will the Philosopher have control again, a monopoly over what was trying to impose these are questions that depend on the future of all what you said and our identity that those who wanted Croatia's history to be ignored in the educational processes that they now regain control over it. And why just the Philosophy end of all the other universities, the end of all the other colleges that we have, that's the question that I expect we'll still discuss... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142364	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142365	Mr. Nazor, you have looked back on the remarks of counterpart Bauk, who said the debate on the activities of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre is not an opportunity to speak widely about the Homeland War in the BiH area. It bothered him because I probably touched some of the stereotypes of Croats in BiH in the public of the Republic of Croatia during the 15 minutes. Recently, a colleague of Bauk spoke of 27 of his folk heroes outside the topic which was on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament I was politely silent. Answering your question why the Croatian military's presence in the border area during the war in BiH was an aggression against BiH, rather than the fact that Islamic volunteers were from allied countries of one the world forces, from Saudi Arabia and [[Intruder: Thank you]] and Kuwait. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142366	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142367	I don't have anything, but I didn't get the impression that Representative Bauk was thinking of BiH but on the issue of World War II, perhaps, but let the MP explain it, I didn't get the impression that he was distracted by the debate on BiH, because when we talk about the Homeland War, we simply cannot separate the areas of the Republic of Croatia and BiH, not only because of the ethnic principle, but because of the geostrategic fact that it is a unique space, that aggression against the Republic of Croatia has begun, so that we talk about the Homeland War, and not having in mind the space of the Republic of BiH is impossible to understand anything at all. [[Intruder: Please, please]] See where the 5th Banja Luka Corps came from, where the 17th Tuzlan attack on the Republic of Croatia, the Herzegovian Corps, therefore, I think it referred to the period of World War II, but we're going to have to ask Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142368	Comrade Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142369	Mr. Nazor, I would like to be in the Republic of Croatia, as you say, to achieve the national unity of all Croats, but it will be an impossible mission, as long as we are slaves of the past and of what has happened in the past, as long as we do not speak the truth about what happened in the Homeland War, as long as it is declared a criminal named Tomislav Mercep, and released by Radenko Alava, who comes from the same area and who know the causes, what are the consequences of the Homeland War. One will be released, and the other will be a criminal in our society. And I'm going to say this, Tomislav Mercep never had a private army of his own, but someone gave him soldiers in his unit, and the same soldiers Tomislav Mercep didn't arm them with his weapon, but someone gave him that weapon, Tomislav Mercep never chose where he would take action, but was sent, and Radenko Alava was tabled in Bor's village at the school of Bozidar Maslaric. where 83 was killed. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142370	Comrade Culey, thank you. Answer if you like, please. Nothing, okay. ... This concludes the discussion of the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2017, and we will vote on the point when the conditions are obtained. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142371	Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of Homeland War 2017. The applicant is the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War for 2017 is hereby accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 106 for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142372	We continue with the next item of the agenda, that is: - Report on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2017. The applicant shall be the decision-making committee of the conflict of interest on the basis of Article 1(1). 30. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and the government also delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? She's with us. Natasa Novakovic, chairman of the commission, if you will, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142373	Here, thank you very much. I welcome you all, Madam Vice President, Honorable MPs and MPs, here is a report from 2017, so from the year I was not yet a member of the committee, so there are with me and two colleagues who were in the previous meeting, which will answer your powers to certain questions if you have them for 2017. Therefore, the Commission decided on a conflict of interest as a permanent independent and independent state body in 2017. carried out the tasks of its work, work and competence of certain Laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest, in the composition of the President of the Commission Dalia Oreskovic, and members of the Commission Tatjana Vučetic, Davorin Ivanjek, Branka Lukačević Gregić and Boris Spudić. In accordance with the powers and competences of the Member States established. 30. The FSC's commission launched conflicts of interest procedures and decided whether certain actions or failures of officials were a violation of the provisions of the law, giving opinions, checking the data from the report on the property status of officials, making... She cooperated with the competent authority to draw up the Law on the area of prevention of conflicts of interest of officials and cooperated with... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] organisations and have achieved international co-operation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the legislative framework, the basic purpose of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, to prevent the impact of private interests on the decision-making of public duties, to strengthen the integrity of objectivity, impartiality and transparency in the conduct of public duties, and to strengthen the confidence of citizens in public authorities. It should be pointed out that conflict of interest is a normal phenomenon, a life situation that occasionally occurs in action and decision-making, the emphasis is that such a situation is foreseen, that prevention procedures are formalised, the clear effect of determining such situations and their resolution, the removal or reduction of the damage that has occurred or could have occurred. Also, conflict of interest is not the same as corruption or the committing of criminal acts, conflict of interest is a situation in which there is a resulting or possible behaviour affecting the credibility of a person, which is why it stands out... prevention and resolution of the situation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to conflicts of interest, it is very important to highlight within the legal framework. 5. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in which it is explicitly prescribed that compliance with the prescribed principles of action is also one of the obligations of officials. It is therefore certainly within the competence of the committee to establish, of course, in the prescribed procedure, that in a particular situation their injury occurred, regardless of the possibility of sanctions being imposed in breach of the principle of action. With respect to all the above mentioned, the Commission is in 2017. in addition to the procedures to be initiated to determine whether there has been a breach of the law for which it is subject. The 42nd prescribed possibility of imposing sanctions has continued to build the practice of initiating the procedure in order to determine whether a breach of the prescribed principles of action has occurred in the behaviour of the officials. A decision on the commission to determine that there is a conflict of interest in certain circumstances in terms of the definition of art. 2. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and decisions which determine that the principle of action of officials is violated by a certain act or failure of officials, creates standards of conduct that are expected of officials. Why am I pointing this out? I point out this because the principles have been problematicd at several levels lately, the Commission is considered to be too broadly interpreting the law, that the principles are something that the commission should not act on, however, as you can see in the 2017 report, and from previous reports, the Commission's conduct in accordance with Article 5 is also extremely important and what the Commission certainly has in its jurisdiction. Given that the procedure before the Committee is open to the public and that the decisions of the Commission are made public on the Commission's website, taking into account that there is also a legitimate interest of the media and the public in general for the outcome and determination of the cases of competence of the Commission, namely by decision, decisions establishing a conflict of interest, irrespective of the simultaneous existence of infringement of certain other obligations, prohibitions and restrictions, as well as decisions which determine that there has been a breach of the procedure of establishing a code of good practice, the conduct of public duties. In 2017, the law remained as it was and was a commission involved in the creation of a Strategy and Action Plan for the Prevention of Corruption in which one of the measures was provided for was an application which would allow the automatic comparison of data from the submitted property reports of officials with data available by other state authorities. That measure was fully completed by the Commission and a complete application for automatic verification of the data contained in the report on the property status of the debtor was completed at the end of 2017. Creating and putting into service of that application is a prerequisite for conducting systematic, regular checks on data from the report on the property status of officials and this is something that has actually started regularly at the end of 2018, which is not currently in question. The final phase of informing the whole, overall working process in the commission was completed with the preparation of that application. As far as the work organisation itself is concerned, so 5 are members of the commission, 12 were employed in 2017, you are very likely to know about the fact that we had problems and there is still a problem with the space in which the commission, however, I hope that we will solve it. So, in 2017, the commission received a notice before the performance of the City of Zagreb, with an amount of more than 300,000 kuna to be paid, the debt today is only more permanent. Meanwhile, we signed a new contract and now the situation is resolved as far as the area is concerned legally, but the debt remains and amounts to around 500,000 kuna. As regards information, at the end of 2017, as the third stage of the information process, the Commission developed an information programme, which I have already said, but I want to stress it once again because it is extremely important, so it is an automatic comparison of data, it is our regular check of property cards that is extremely important and which will require further strengthening of the commission. As far as statistics are concerned, 40 public meetings were held during 2017, a committee in which a total of 126 non-start decisions were taken, 78 on the initiation of proceedings and 75 final decisions establishing or unconfirmed infringements of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Decisions laying down infringements of the provisions of the sanctions law prescribed 16 warnings, totalling 261,000 kuna sanctions for suspending the payment of part of the salary, the net monthly salary of officials. At the same time, 200 cases have been resolved in respect of the requests submitted for the opinion of the Commission and 43 indications have been made. During 2017, in the procedure of previous administrative verification of compliance with the obligation to submit property cards, 173 officials in the prescribed time limit have not submitted a report on the property situation. In accordance with the law of the prescribed obligation, the Commission reached 276 conclusions calling on officials to submit the correct and complete form of the report by written means. Among the most frequent errors that occur in practice when data are entered into the form, which is currently very current, which cannot be considered to be the submitted form of the report to be correctly and fully completed and submitted, failures or misrepresentations of the data in the section of the verifier for commitments and the misrepresentation of credit data, different data on the year, interest, etc. In comparison with the previous year, progress is seen in the percentage of successful or correct and fully completed reports without the need to implement ex post corrections and data additions. During 2017, regular checks were carried out mainly for applications submitted, of course otherwise could not be done because there was no infrastructure. As regards the opinion in 2017, the commission gave 200 reasoned opinions, 43 reasoned indications showing that, compared to the previous years, it is an interest of officials to seek a response from the Commission as an institution and to continue to increase. To give an opinion is one of the most important tasks of the commission, given that it is precisely the opinion that the preventive authority of the commission is being exercised. Opinions and manifestations serve to promote good practice, to build on the ethics of public duties. A positive shift shall be observed in the content of the requirements set. In 2017, the smaller number of applications submitted concerned the interpretation of the law, and the majority of applications submitted concerned the actual ethical doubt of officials arising from certain circumstances which the provisions of the law itself do not give an explicit answer. If several topics are systematised in the period from 2017 to 2017, the thematics of the requested and the given opinions show significant frequency. Among them are the first to enquire the person in relation to the second salary rights, with the salary the official receives for the conduct of duties and the right to perform other tasks. As regards decisions in 2017, the maximum number of procedures was initiated due to possible infringements of Article 7. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or the provision of additional compensation for matters of public duty. In addition to the above, a relatively significant number of procedures are initiated due to possible violations of the prohibition of officials' membership in boards or boards of directors, companies, administrative councils of institutions and extra- budget funds. During 2017, the Commission also carried out proceedings against those officials whose period of 12 months has elapsed from the date of termination of public office or in cases where such former official no longer behaves any other public duty within the meaning of our law. However, in view of the inability to impose sanctions on the suspension of part of the net monthly salary, the Commission shall, in such cases, make declaratory decisions to determine that a certain breach of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest has been committed, however, it may not impose sanctions, or it may not enforce them or impose them. With regard to the occasion of the initiation of proceedings in 2017, the number of proceedings to determine the conflict of interest, i.e. to determine the infringement of some of the provisions of the CFSP, was initiated on the basis of applications submitted to the commission while, in a small number, the percentage was initiated by the basis of its own knowledge of the commission. During 2017, 75 cases of conflict of interest were completed, of which 67 found infringement of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The maximum number of final decisions was made for the purposes of an infringement of Article 7(d) or for receiving additional compensation for the conduct of public duties and for breach of the principle, therefore, of Article 5(5). The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the membership of officials in administrative bodies and supervisory committees. As regards administrative disputes, procedures before competent administrative courts are not only judicial control of our work but also an important upgrade of interpretations that develop an area of conflict of interest. During 2017, 8 administrative actions were brought against the Commission's decisions, 6 rulings and 3 solutions of the first-degree administrative courts in respect of administrative suits against decisions of the commission, all six of which reject the panel's claims and confirm the decisions taken by the Commission. Then the two solutions which were rejected as unlawful, given that they were filed by persons who were not parties to the decision-making procedure. One solution also established the suspension of the administrative dispute over the withdrawal of the indictment of officials. Furthermore, during 2017 administrative disputes against decisions of the Commission, a total of 6 complaints were filed against first-degree decisions, one complaint from the Commission against the first-degree ruling was made in 2016 which annulled the Commission's decision. Then three appeals by officials against the verdicts which rejected these appeals and two complaints against those solutions of the first-degree administrative courts which rejected the lawsuits. Finally, during 2017, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia adopted 3 verdicts and 3 solutions in administrative disputes over administrative lawsuits against Commission decisions. In all three judgments, he rejected appeals by officials against first-degree rulings which rejected the Commission's decisions and rejected complaints against first-degree solutions which rejected the two litigation cases and suspended the administrative dispute. So extremely good statistics. As regards several relevant interpretations in the practice of administrative courts in that year, we would point out the verdict of the business number of the USG 277/17 in which the court rejected the prosecution’s appeal and confirmed the first-degree ruling of the administrative court in Zagreb, which confirmed the Commission’s decision of 15 June 2015, which found that the then first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the official, in view of certain circumstances, was in a situation of potential conflict of interest and that he committed an infringement of the principle of action in Article 5. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. It is the first ruling of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the administrative dispute against such a declarative decision by the Commission, taken in the conflict of interest procedure and, therefore, the same verdict has great precedent. The same judgment confirmed the authorisation and jurisdiction of the Commission to initiate proceedings under its jurisdiction and in the same procedures lays down infringements of the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest for which no sanctions are provided for. Because there are no sanctions for conflict of interest like there are no violations of principle. As regards the determination of this competence, the court has also given its own consideration and the commission has since given in all first-degree judgments of a declarative nature, giving guidance on a legal remedy under which an official has the right to file an administrative action and against those decisions in which there are no sanctions. The judgment of the High Administrative Court of Justice of the SGEI 3652/16 confirmed that decisions taken on the basis of a free assessment by the Commission, the selection, type and the level of sanctions imposed on the officer for the established infringement of the GSC and that it is possible to refute in the administrative dispute only as to whether the decision on sanctions has been taken under the legal powers and in accordance with the purpose for which the authority of the day can therefore not be entered into the amount of a certain sanction. Furthermore, the judgment of the High Administrative Court of Justice of the U.S.J. 2696/16 explicitly confirmed that the obligation of the official to notify the commission was prescribed in Article 18 of objective nature and that it relates to each individual particular business... between the body in which the official is acting and the business entity in which the member of the family of the official has 0,5 or more shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, the impartiality of the conduct of public affairs, or the exercise of them in the general interest, is the assumption of a fair and legal establishment of state authorities. The purpose of the law and commissions is to establish high ethical standards of responsible performance as expected in the conduct of public duties. General principles oblige anyone who performs a public duty, citizens of each and especially officials expect high moral standards of conduct and expect commitment to certain ethical principles. The open and responsible authority related to ethical standards is an incentive to the economy, social openness and democratic initiative. Although in 2017, as in the previous years of work, the Commission called on the number of opinions given on timely submissions by officials to be significantly higher than the number of decisions taken that have been found to violate the law in the perception of the public and even the officials themselves have a much stronger echo than on the day of their opinion. This also points to the conclusion that the building of integrity and credibility and good governance standards that are built through those interpretations and reactions to the observed phenomena that are determined in the Commission's measurement decisions. In the end, I would also refer to the remarks made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the session when it discussed our report, so there are three remarks, I will look back briefly. Firstly, in particular as regards not listing in the work report, working in this report, thank you for participating in the Working Group on the Amendment and the additions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. We remind you that the report submitted refers to 2017. During that year, two working groups meetings were held and three working group leaders and the minister himself in charge of the administration changed. The Commission's first concrete proposals were sent in January 2018, while the working group itself did not work until March 2018. In the light of the report for 2017, we did not consider it relevant to describe changes to the principle of the working group of the Ministry of Administration, but we wrote in general that the body was working with the competent authority to draw up laws in the area of preventing conflicts of interest of officials. In view of the allegations that it was necessary for the Commission's report on the work for 2017 to state the individual judgments of the administrative courts and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Commission points out that, over 5 years, the practice of administrative courts related to the interpretation and application of individual institutes governed by the Law on the Prevention of Interest and in most cases, the administrative courts confirmed the busy views and interpretation of the commission. In this regard, we do not believe that the report needed to state absolutely all the judgments of the administrative courts made over the past 5 years, nor do we think that it would affect the credibility of the report. Finally, all the rulings of the administrative courts and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia are a public publication on the Committee's website. As regards the finding that the report on the budget of the Commission does not comply with the State Treasury data, we explain that it is true that the data in the 2017 budget table accompanying the report are not fully in line with the State Treasury data. In particular, in the financial report, the Commission provided data from the accounts based on the modified accounting principle of the occurrence of events, all in accordance with the Budget Act and the implementing regulations, or the Budgetary Accounting Regulation, the Accounting Plan and the Reporting Regulation, which are partly different from that of the Treasury. We note that the Budget Law, as well as any other regulation, is not prescribed to the content and format of the reports provided by the budget users to HS and, accordingly, is not an obligation to use State Treasury data in financial reports. It is noted that the Commission has also provided data on the cost of financial resources based on data from the accounts and that there has never been any comments on the work report in HS. It is also necessary to point out that the difference between the data cited by the Commission and the data from the State Treasury system is only €3362.27 and is indeed negligible compared to the total amount of the Commission's budget of € 4.6 million. The Commission also failed to provide an assessment of the fiscal impact for 2017, as this obligation is not prescribed to the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and neither to the Government's decision on the process of making statements on the assessment of the fiscal impact, but to comply with the obligations of the Member State. On 12th century 3 of the Regulation on the establishment and submission of a declaration of fiscal responsibility and a report on the application of fiscal rules, submitted a declaration of fiscal responsibility with a completed questionnaire. I'd end up with this, and I'd be happy to answer your questions and your replicas in the end, when I've collected them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142374	Thank you, too. We have six replicas on your exhibit. The first is the replica of his colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142375	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear President Novakovic. Well, I'd like to refer to two facts from your opening argument. So it is clear that this report is in 2007, but it is important to get some information that is up-to-date, since our main concern is to ensure the normal work of the commission. So you have denied Minister Kuštevic's statement that there is a great concern in legal circles about the quality of the commission's decision because the Administrative Court has often annulled them. So we're talking about the untrue future of your exposure we see that's not true. And secondly, I would like to know whether you, as chairman of the commission, have knowledge and what stage the new law has been drawn up since it was an obligation under the old action plan, the new action plan does not state the measure of adoption of the new law, and Minister Kuščević said that by summer we will have the law here in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142376	Thank you. Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored presidents with a member and a member of the committee. One answer to a part of the report where there's a lot of rat information. In fact, you concluded in the 2017 report that the commission made a lot of, 75 decisions on violations of the law, of which 67 injuries, 16 warnings, and the remaining means, decisions to which the maximum number is likely to be sanctioned. However, you have collected only 261 thousand kuna in the name of sanctions imposed on officials for certain violations of the law. It's a very modest amount to me, given the possibilities and the misdemeanor provisions. Why so little?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142378	Thank you. Next up is fellow Djujic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Novakovic. I, as well as my colleague Jovanovic, will look back on a new law that has been announced for 2 years and which has unquestionably disappeared from the public space at all since, on several occasions, Minister Kuščević even spoke publicly that this new law would change him in the direction that he practically rules out the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and, according to his first understanding, your role would be in the future to become just a service for publishing property cards. I wonder if you, like your colleague Jovanovic, are you even involved in the adoption of this law, do you know where it is stuck and why we don't have it until today? And we see that the only thing that matters to the government in this opinion is whether you are involved in a task force committee, which was supposed to be preparing a new law, whether you are not participating, but we do not see any results from that task force. Here I hope the Ministry's representative will also show himself before the debate about the situation and where the new law is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142380	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142381	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Novakovic with his associates. Here, the law has been announced by summer. The minister says the commission will finally deal with important matters, not trivial or, we'll say folkly that you do stupid things. The Minister said, how about that law? Are you familiar with that because the minister claimed that you were familiar with the new bill. Have you seen him and what do you say to that law? And do you, indeed, per minister as an independent body, which should be independent, feel the pressure of the executive authority because you are told that you do stupid things or trivial things? And when the Minister of a Government says so, then it is known to be an eclectic example of pressure on an independent institution that should be equal to each official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142382	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142383	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Novakovic, I answered the replica because I was surprised when you said that your financials should not agree with the report from the Treasury. You then obviously predicted one thing, that this House of the High adopts a report on the implementation of the state budget and it's the only valid document. Any other document of the budgetary user which does not comply with this document is not valid because the Assembly adopted the State Budget Report. That's why you're probably kind of a failure or something, I guess you said this because if, if you're standing who you said you are, then it's contrary to the Budget Law, it's contrary to the decisions made by this High House, and that's something that just can't be like that. Because this House adopted a report on the implementation of the State budget for 2017 and the Commission's data on the prevention of conflicts of interest, I can't tell the difference between that and June. If there's a problem with accounting management methodology, it's consistent with the Ministry of Finance, and I think it'd be good. It would be good to clear this up because it's just not good. [[Intruder: Thank you]] you as the head of this, this commission... [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Shucker]] /Intruder: Comrade Shucker, thank you/ [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142384	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142385	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ma'am. Novakovic, well you have read some of the verdicts and some of the rulings passed by the Administrative Court. Listen carefully, I have not heard that you have also read those concerning the finding that the Administrative Court has concluded that it resorts to the commission at one time to the structures of some officials, which absolutely does not belong to it legally. The administrative court considers that the commission is not authorized to enter into the work of democratically and directly elected executives, as is the case with Mr Bandic, you should have read the segment. You are a commission that is established by an administrative, supervisory body to prevent and all else when you are serving some substituting or calling at an election time, absolutely damages and the commission, as well as officials, so I recommend that none of this ever happen again. The commission doesn't do, like that [[Intruder: Thank you]] before you, so... [[Intruder: Thank you Mr. Djakic]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142386	Thank you. Now we open the debate, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST colleague Robert Podolnjak, please welcome colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, once again respected presidents with associates, a report ahead of us for 2017. It came in front of HS with a full...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142388	Mr. Bull, please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142389	...came in front of HS with a full year of delay. This report came to HS on 30 May 2018, so there was enough time to put it on the agenda before, but I'm only saying that because probably these days the commission sent a new HS report, if that report was sent to 2017 on 30 May, means that the 2018 report has now come somewhere. It would be logical, therefore, that we have united the 2017 and 2018 reports and discussed it together at the plenary session, so I am afraid that we will wait one year again on the 2018 report, it is, in my opinion, a serious failure that naturally goes to the president of HS which places the points on the agenda. So, of course, in the content of the report, this is one of the connotations that we have to discuss now. Some colleagues here have mentioned a new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we have been talking about it for months, there have been a lot of public debates, and there have been a lot of statements from Mr. Kuštević's management minister, but I will say something that many of the individual NGOs have told me, perhaps unlike the colleagues who have asked when this law will be. Namely, they told me not to ask me when there will be a new law because if it comes from the workshop of Minister Kuščević it will not be good, better to remain such a plague law with partially abolished provisions by the Constitutional Court, as it is, it is better than to get a new law as every little bit announced by Minister Kuščević, and which I fear might be here accepted by the parliamentary majority, as otherwise accepts everything that comes from the workshop of Minister Kuštević which, please, colleagues from the opposition and everyone who cares about the conflict of interest, do not ask Minister Kuščević when he will propose a new law, nicely please tell me all of these principles about the NGOs, just do not remind him that such something must be proposed, let the law as it is, better than anything Minister Kushčević said that he could prepare because all of this was trivially, all of the principles about the principles that he had been held in question. Therefore, I will not ask at all what stage the new law is at, which is done by the task force, etc., it is better for the whole project to die while Minister Kuščević is the minister of administration and while he could commit some evil in this regard. But let me now, some things related to this report that have a character that are important today, not just in 2017. One of the most important things that the commission is dealing with is the verification of data from the report on the property situation of officials, the report states that one of the important things envisaged as one of the measures in the action plan in the anti-corruption strategy is envisaged to produce an application that would allow the automatic comparison of data from the submitted property reports by officials with data available to other national authorities. The report says that the Commission has fully fulfilled the measure, and at the end of 2017 an application has been completed for automatic verification of data from the report on the property status of officials. Since we are now in the middle of 2019, there must be some information and data on how this application works. So when you compare the data that officials have filled out in their reports with data that, for example, has a Tax Administration or a Catastre, you could find that there are differences in these data. For example, we have recently witnessed that there have been serious differences in the display of the property of individual officials, so you have, I don't know, a vice-president who gave different information for his real estate in the report and the media have discovered that he actually has a far larger area than he has shown it, but that seems to me that we should actually determine the commission based on that application. So using data that exists, for example, in a catastro or some other database and seeing which data the official gave, it could actually be seen that he gave the wrong data, that's obviously the purpose of the application. Or you have information for another minister who gives the market value of his cottage that doesn't probably match the market value according to the data that the IRS has. And so you should solve that application. We don't really have any data on whether this application is used, in what way and with what results. What we've read has actually been discovered by the media and the result of the commission's work. I don't know if you miss administrative and personnel resources for such a thing, but I think it would be very important to compare data for all the top officials, from the top ones to the bottom ones, not that the media actually find differences in the data of what the officials reported, so that they're in a situation to apologize, that they've made a mistake, etc. It actually has to work systematically, now obviously has certain tools at its disposal to do so, this application is meant to be in function, it just needs to be used. The report says that during 2017 you received 3600, not excuse me, 3462 property reports and 173 officials did not submit a report within the prescribed deadline. I'm mentioning this because I actually told the citizens that we have over 3500 officials at the state and local level who were obliged to fill out this report, it's a huge number. This is one official for every 1,000 citizens and we don't count 8 or 9 or more thousands of local council members who are not officials in this sense but that's a huge number of officials, 3500 by these figures, that's too many officials. But then I understand a job that has a commission when it actually has to check all these reports but we're a state that has too many politicians, absolutely too many politicians, that's what you see in this. In addition to the fact that many officials did not submit a report, 173 of them within the prescribed deadline, so you sent them conclusions and invited them to submit the correct and complete form, 276 conclusions, so a lot of officials who had to correct the mistakes or who had not delivered the reports at all. It is established that, in the event of doubt or some conduct in accordance with the principles of public duties, officials should request the opinion of the Commission and you, on a continuous basis, bring a large number of these reasoned opinions in 2017 around 200. I think it would be a good suggestion, my suggestion, I think, that I have mentioned it years ago, to make some reference, some of these opinions that the commission has made during the year so that all new officials, especially after local elections, for example, when there are a number of new officials, can actually see what it is to do to them, and what are the potential situations of conflict of interest, especially in these situations that very often arise about membership in administrative councils, supervisory committees, receiving some additional compensation for an additional public duty, most often mentioning exactly that situation, although there are entirely some new situations, doubts that are not developed by law but I think it would be good to actually do a manual in which not only would be one of the new officials, but also those who are appointed and some new duties, could have been easier to see what situations of potential conflict of interest or of real conflict of interest on numerous examples, in particular, anonymised. We have new situations relating to Article 5, a very important article relating to the principles of the act of officials where it is prescribed that officials must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially, maintaining their credibility and dignity of the entrusted duties and trust of citizens, etc., not to quote this article further. Very important, the commission often uses it in making its decisions, we see in some new at least one decision of the administrative court to seriously question the application of this article, it has no sanctions but has a certain significant effect politically, morally, ethically and of course it is very important to keep this article in any version of any new law. The fact is that this article has no sanctions in terms of some fines, but in any case it has certain political repercussions. Interestingly, in some cases that occurred and some decisions that took place in 2018, for example, are quite often used in this article 5. As a result, some, such as Minister Kuštević, are probably very unhappy with the application of these provisions, but interestingly, for the public. Art. 5, which has been applied in some Commission decisions, has shown the following. In an important case relating to individual ministers in the Government, you have a situation where you have decided that the Deputy Prime Minister has violated certain principles in its action. 5, and she had to resign at the end of the story. At the end of the story, when we look at it, it's that and that fundamental reason why she resigned. But in a similar, very close situation, the minister whom you also imposed a sanction on by virtue of an article. 5. Because of the violation of the principle, he has not resigned and is still minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia today. This shows that this provision in some situations may have an effect on the political responsibility of a member of the government. And in one situation, the end line and that responsibility proved to be true, and the Deputy Prime Minister had to resign. But then, logically, the question arises, why did the government minister not resign because of the same sanctions of the commission that he violated the principles of the article. 5. It says we haven't built the system to the end. political responsibilities of members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you. Thank you, comrade Podolnjak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142390	Thank you. Next up, my colleague, Felak, is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, pal Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142391	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. Presidents of the committee with members of the commission, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The report submitted by the Commission on the conflict of interest on its work in 2017 in this HS is comprehensive and comprehensive. In some parts, it highlights some problems of a personal or material nature that are not too important for the work of the commission itself and for this House of Highs. The Commission's report also said in several places that it had only established practice according to its own findings in certain issues which had not been finalised by the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I remind you it's an article. 28 The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, specifically prescribed that the team article is exactly the legal position and composition of the commission. Article 1 states that, in order to implement this law, the Commission is a permanent, independent and independent state body which performs the tasks of its work and the competences set out in this law, I stress the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Furthermore, this paragraph, I quote, prohibits any form of influence on the work of the commission that could endanger its independence and independence in its decision-making work. Art. 30 laws are the exact powers of the commission. In its report, the Commission states in the opening section, I quote, the conflict of interest should be understood as a lobby of corruption, i.e. as a situation in which corruption still does not exist, but in which there is a corrupt risk from which a corrupting action may arise, and should include all those circumstances in which private interests may affect the decision-making of public duty to the harm of public interest, even if such a decision is ultimately in favour of private interests, and, regardless of whether the conduct of the public service officer has taken place by the conduct of a public service officer has taken place in the course of some corrupt criminal act and whether it has done any other adverse consequences, the end of the quotes. Who and what rules assess the existence of the very risk of conflict of interest and corruption? If this right takes the commission, it should specify at which point of the law it has a foothold and specify exactly what the risks to a potential conflict of interest are, and then potential corruption. Such a formulation of conflict of interest in the law does not exist. The section of the report, which discusses the legal framework of the Commission's work, also states the reasons for the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, is interpreted. 2 of this law that draws closer explains what a conflict of interest is. Among other things, this article states that the conflict of interest exists where the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest, especially when the private interest of officials affects its impartiality in the exercise of public duty or can be found to have a fundamental effect on the private interest of the official in the exercise of public duty or the private interest of the official may affect his impartiality in the exercise of public duty. The reference from the report itself, the conflict of interest within the meaning of the definition set out in Article 2 of the Law exists also in a situation where there is a legitimate concern that the official may use the powers or circumstances resulting from the conduct of his public duties to protect, preserve or improve his private, private interests or private interests of the connected persons. Who estimates what's justifiable fear, a term that's not mentioned in the law. It is said that, that something can, in fact, be established, that the private interest, that it can be found that the private interest of the official affects his impartiality in the performance of his duties or what I have already read, the private interest of the official may be affected by his impartiality in the exercise of public duty. This commission is of private interest, this commission takes the right to assess the legitimate concern of the emergence of conflicts of interest without clearly developed criteria which all public officials, which brings all public officials to the position that in certain situations, working in the best interest, can be in a potential conflict of interest, and the commission gives discretionary right to judge it when someone is and when it is not in conflict of interest. if maybe you could come into conflict of interest, and when you don't. When we link the provisions of Articles 2 and 5. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest comes to the conclusion that the Commission itself states in its report. I quote: The decisions of the committee which determine that there is a conflict of interest in certain circumstances in terms of the definition set out in Article 2 of the Law as well as decisions confirming that the official has violated the principles of action laid down in Article 5 of the Law by a specific act or failure. The end of the quote. It is further stated that the decision to determine the existence of a conflict of interest or breach of the principle is contained in a clear description of the circumstances of the conduct or failure of the officials resulting from the infringement and, in the light of the reasons for such decision, the reasons and the evidence on which the commission applied certain provisions of the law. It is further stated that this establishes a code of good practice in the conduct of public duties. Finally, in this paragraph, the report is given only in due respect, I suppose by respecting such standards of conduct, an effective preventive framework can be established in the conduct of public duties which reduces the possibility of corruption. This makes it clear that Articles 2 and 5. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and some other articles did not specify precisely and clearly what the actual and especially possible conflict of interest is because they clearly elaborated the principles of public action that public officials would not be in the position of breaking the law. I believe that the establishment of a code of good practice based on Commission decisions stemming from their interpretation of certain articles of the law is not good. More specifically, the rules of the game should have been clearly prescribed before the start of the game, and not that the judge in this case only in walking makes decisions on sanctioning public officials without clear criteria and a real standoff in the law, and then the decisions taken become a code that everyone should all adhere to in the future. If something in the law is not clearly prescribed as punishable or contrary to the law, then it is not the commission that can autonomously determine a potential conflict of interest or breach of the principle of action of a public official. In accordance with its competences, the Commission may submit an initiative to propose amendments or amendments to the law with a view to detailing certain provisions of the law that public officials know exactly how to act. It is also up to the Commission to draw up guidelines and instructions to officials in order to effectively prevent conflicts of interest. Finally, I believe that the rules should be clearly laid down and then monitored whether the bonds of the law respect them, rather than the rules on an arbitrary basis, from case to case, because in such situations it is always possible to question the bias or impartiality of certain members of the commission or commission as a whole. As I was saying in the introduction, the report is quite comprehensively drawn up, we are familiar with the organisation of the work of the commission itself, the number of employees, 12 employees, is said to have taken over from the General Affairs Office on 1.1.2016, and immediately thereafter it is stated that, for this job, the commission has no capacity of its own, so it stands out EUR 67,500 for external services. I wonder why this is still not done by the UZOP or the General Affairs Office of the Croatian Parliament. In particular, the report specifically discusses the problem of ownership and the right to use the space spoken by the president of the commission, and I was hoping that this was resolved so far, unfortunately not, but I believe it will be. It also states how much money was planned for work, and 4,643,855 kuna and 51 limes have been spent, there is some difference in the government's opinion, what has already been discussed, and I agree with the chairman of the commission in this section that I don't think it's any difference of any importance between 3,000 and some kunas and that it doesn't change anything significantly in the financial report. It is evident from the data that during 2017 41 committee sessions, which had a total of 289 decisions were held, the sanctions were collected at €261.00, 200 opinions were given, 43 indications. There's also talk of a register of officials who have been established, I think it's an art. The 3rd law prescribed precisely by the officials, we can discuss whether all must be covered by it, we heard it at the previous point when the gentleman from the document, the Croatian Documentation Centre for the Homeland War, believes that he should not be covered by it and some other position, but well, that is given, it would be possible to discuss it. I think that in that part of the report, data on administrative disputes, education, members, for members of the commission and employees, conferences, etc., all this is well shown. I will touch as well as the predecessors, by adopting amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest or New Law and to skip these certain things, I will only say that an interesting article which is the conditions for selecting the president and members of the committee is an art. 3rd century 1st subst. 5. So, a member of the commission must not be a member of the political party, nor has he been a member of the political party in the last 5 years. Until the day of candidacy, I think that article is groundless, all, at least most have certain political views, whether members of the party or not. We have been bearing witness to this in particular lately, the political arena is being attended by various activists, groups of citizens, and judges, and ultimately by the former chairman of the commission who was president and for this period when this report was submitted, although they are not formal members, not at that time, nor by any political party. But it's obvious that all of them, including Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic has political views, and today it is seen that these views are very eager to advocate, which can ultimately not be bad, but is it not least hypocritical that we are asking for a 5g candidate in the selection of members of the commission. He is not a member of any political party, and then after the end of the commission membership, he can start acting politically on the second day, establish a political party and propagate his political goals. Shouldn't it cast a good doubt at least on some of the decisions made by the commission for individual officials, regardless of which policy options they come from when the Commission was chaired by Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic? Did not some decisions consciously prepare the ground for its political activation and promotion by discrediting then and present political rivals? This would end this exhibition, I believe, I repeat again, I believe that only the report is correct, but the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but the new law is also necessary and I hope that it will be done as soon as possible, to the benefit of all public officials and alone. The commission. [[Thank you, Mr. Felak.]] The HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142392	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club colleague Arsen Bauk, please welcome colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected committee presidents, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, just to look back on Mr Felak's latest statement concerning membership in the political party, I personally don't think that a provision on a certain number of years outside the political party should be amended before the political party enters into office, but I don't think it should be so important to introduce a provision and to limit political action for a certain period of time after the end of duty in the conflict of interest committee, but well, that is now, it is not so important. So this is from the adoption of this Law on Conflict of Interest, which is in force, the basic law, 2010 or 2011, the sixth or seventh report under discussion by HS, and I am saying this because reports for the previous years were adopted almost unanimously, but this did not help most or part of the members of the commission whose reports HS accepted unanimously, to continue to do the work that was doing in the opinion of HS perfectly. And the fact is, in that sense, that these reports are accepted in HS because no one has to do it either for opportunistic or for some other reason, no one wants to sew up too much on this report and complain to the Commission because, always the public might say we're doing it because we're not satisfied because the commission did something in the case or us personally or someone else from our party and then it goes through this line of less resistance, we're going to accept it, we're going to say that they're doing well, that it's good to have it, we're going to say that the law needs to change it from year to year, so it's also the case this year. First of all, all the remarks we have on the implementation or the text of the law are not a matter of the commission, so the laws are passed by HS and the commission implements them, if the provisions of the law are not precise enough, the commission makes some practice, if HS thinks that this practice is bad, then let it change one provision and define something better, we did it in 2015. when, because of the announcement, or because of the hiding of property cards from the Internet, we created a public storm and we reacted within 5 days and added one provision that may have been a little bit and radical, which is that officials are not subject to personal data protection provisions. Now it can be debated whether it's exactly in that formulation constitutional but it doesn't matter. And that was the current reaction, the current reaction to one of the Personal Data Protection Agency's actions, not the Commission itself. The other thing that is very often mentioned are the amendments to the law in which the commission would cut its wings or numb its teeth, etc., that I hold as a sort of deterrent or threat method, but not quite a threat but I can't think of any softer words at the moment, which is that the commission is a little careful about what it is doing because otherwise it could change its power by law and then it wouldn't be like that anymore. So I would like the chairman of the commission to say whether she feels the pressure of the government or the parliamentary majority or by ruling with such views or independently of it is working according to the law as they see fit. Of course the feeling of pressure is a subjective thing, if there are some objective things then it's one whole other thing. It is also the report for 2017 that the Commission certainly has control over the work in the decisions of administrative courts. Here they are numbered, on the back pages are the number of tables of administrative disputes. From what is seen most of the administrative disputes, the commission, or those who file administrative disputes and administrative lawsuits as a rule, are losing but there are several administrative disputes where those who have referred, therefore, filed administrative action and where their action has been taken in full, whether in part. And, of course, in that case, the commission should act on the judgments of the administrative courts, in particular by the final judgments of the Administrative Court. Basically, if there are too many things that the High Administrative Court has stood by the Commissioner's apartment, then it is a matter of concern and, of course, if the Assembly does not agree with some interpretations or judgments of the High Administrative Court based on the interpretations of the law and not on the pronunciation of the legal norm, the Assembly shall react, specify that provision and then act accordingly. I personally had several opportunities when I felt that the commission had misread or implemented the provisions of some of the laws that were in the departmental section of the administration and I had no problem reacting in accordance with the ministry's work, when I was head of the ministry to warn the commission that maybe some things were misread. And as a rule, it was always well-intentioned, well-intentioned, no, no, so the most common thing was that it had nothing to do with the members of my party, so I was there a little bit. One of these cases is also mentioned on this side, on the last page, it is the case of administrative action, I will read the number, I will not tell the official about which S and 13/13 is concerned, so it was about the right of the official to work hours, on vacations, on some of the other things that the officials, the goddesses, etc., where we warned on the one hand that officials had no right to do so but also that they had no obligation to take vacations or work hours, and simply the court confirmed it and the commission afterwards began to interpret such things and to interpret them. But there's one paradox, and the paradox comes down to the next. For conflicts of interest, sanctions are prescribed, and that is a sanction and, of course, it is carried out on short wages, etc., while sanctions are not prescribed for breach of the principle of action but only public reproof. Most commonly known, the most famous decision by the Commission on the violation of the principle of action is in the case of then first Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Karamark for that case MOL, I do not know INA etc.. Such a decision did not have its sanctions, so Mr Karamarko was not punished, only the commission found that it violated the principles of action and the result of that decision was first the government's fall, the new elections announced, and, indirectly, when the parliamentary majority failed to agree and the departure of Mr Karamark, at least so far from active policy. In this report, the case was listed as one of the cases where the administrative dispute was initiated and the High Administrative Court has rightly rejected both the lawsuit and the appeal. So there was a committee in the court's opinion that was right. Whether it was an intrinsic legislator, we can discuss it, but it's not about the commission, it's about the legislator. Therefore, the commission is obviously also able to give instructions in such fluid legal provisions, to determine the violation of the principle of action and to play a very serious role in Croatia's social and political life because many media-exposed cases eventually end up on the commission. And somehow, it seems to me that even more of a role, so greater public interest is causing committee meetings than hearings against officials in certain judicial cases. So more is reported from committee meetings than from hearings in the affair I do not know Agram or in some other cases where they are also former officials or current officials where they are located. That might be better because it's better for officials to be in front of the committee than for the court and the attorney's office. So any political debate on the work of the commission can always be seen as a kind of prevention, but not the prevention of corruption, but the prevention of the stronger work of the commission towards politicians, and therefore it should be, it should be quite cautious. In that sense, we, with great care, expect possible changes or possible text of the new law because I don't think we should take a step back from what we have right now. If there are some things that need to be explained, then let them explain themselves. If there are some things that need to be sharpened, like what Mr. Felak mentioned, let it be done. But what we shouldn't be doing, which is that even with a single point, in a word, in a letter, in a thought, in a piece and a failure, let me say, leave the impression that the commission wants to be silenced, silenced, that they want to be cut by wings, to cut their teeth, or not to use one word that is otherwise used in such cases and possibly, the government's attempt would have caused a much bigger reaction than it was in the case of the Law on the financing of a political campaign, so that we wouldn't be sitting one night rather than a little longer. So if you get to hear about why you want to change the law, there's no problem, we'll give you that, if that goes in that direction, here, I believe that my colleague Bulj will help. But if these provisions of the law weren't carved into stone and there are things to be changed, there are. Now, in the first year of office, we often deal with these formal errors of officials who are not actually conflicts of interest. So, the fact is that by law it was not allowed to sit on the board of some government institutions whose resolute minister you are and that a large number of our government officials were punished for that with a fine, although it had nothing to do with the conflict of interest. So, it was one, the recklessness of the then secretary of the Staff Committee of the Government. Maybe he's still out there who isn't in the government procedure warned it was a violation of the law, but it was the first time. Thus, the law has only just started to apply more seriously with the selection of the old commission, which is 2013 and in the following year, the two were being stalked and there was little too much formalisation. There was this, and that's another case that was listed here where the Constitutional Court annulled that kind of excessively formalized decision, I think it's the P-48/14 case on the side, the first side of administrative disputes, and it's only one official submitted and one official was actually, after that, his sentence was annulled. The others who found themselves in that situation didn't do it, so they paid for it, it wasn't much of a punishment. So, these formal things in excessive formalization shouldn't go, but there were no milder sanctions than that so the commission worked according to the law, and then the Constitutional Court, in fact arbitrarily said, is, they broke the law, for it was a penalty prescribed, but maybe it wasn't very, very well done. The commission has a very large role to play in trying to keep officials in line with principles, they are also obliged to act in accordance with the law. The officials quite, at least I read the Commission's decisions so often, some were logical to me, some were not logical to me, but it was already a matter of debate, but overall, I think that the commission in these few years since 2017 has contributed to the awareness of both citizens and officials that is allowed, and which is not acceptable, and which is not, which is good, and which is not regardless of what kind of political position we have on some issues, so now not to list controversial attitudes, it is relatively easy to determine that something that is 30 squares, is not 70 or that 70 is not 30, that this is, it is relatively easy to distinguish administrative awkwardness from the real desire to conceal some kind of property, etc. And I hope that the commission will continue to work on a level like it did during Mrs. Oreshkovic, as it began during Mrs. Novakovic and here, I hope, President, as I once said, that you will not give in to those who would like your mandate in the commission to be remembered by your initials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142394	Thank you, colleagues, Bauku. Now we continue with an individual debate. The first one's a colleague of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142395	Thank you very much. Respected to a member of the commission. Here, as you said, the head of the commission was not at the head of this commission during this reporting period dii can look back on 2017, but also a colleague before me, Bauk, mentioned, the commission worked according to the regulations, according to it, I would not say much now whether Oreshkovic... a politician, but like, means then as a leader, he now mentions his work and the merits of that time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the consultant's case is not so much her merit, it's her decision to your commission, but it's not so much her merit, there were 12 more people who were in the Parliament ready to interrupt that government, i.e. not to be in most, to be... I don't know what would have happened and if Dalia Oreshkovic had made such a decision if it hadn't been for such people then, because she often mentioned it to herself, thanking herself, but of course her colleague Bauk would have mentioned it, did he, of course, appoint her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's irrelevant. I'd look back here on this part that I asked in the replica. You, as an independent body, should not have pressures from officials, public pressures mainly from those who have executive authority, executive levers. You're the only one you can answer to, it's here with your own report who's basically set you up, the one who's basically named into that whole, it's the Parliament, so here we should condemn Lovre Kuštević to my parliamentary representatives for pressure on an independent, on an independent body on the meaning of the Committee of Conflict of Interest.../incomprehensible/... conflict of interest because what he's doing to me is not desirable and is not good and not democratic and is not at all not, in fact, our parliamentary representatives are essentially making more mockery than with the commission. He argues that the commission is dealing with irrelevant, stupid, trivial matters and that he will finally say what the committee is dealing with. Is there in the law of ambiguity, probably has, whether there are things that can be changed, probably there is, whether the commission must be able to make a decision in some way is not prescribed exactly how the tribal would be prescribed, probably has, but so much pressure to say that it deals with trivial things by me by one minister, who is competent, but good of Lovra Kušević we can expect because he is a man of the task. And it's not good that it happens. I personally about the report that I've been going through, so that's where they come in, you said yourself there are numbers that were basically what was done and done, but I think that your report that was going to be accepted, of course it will be accepted because it was such a report as it was, you weren't then members, but it wasn't, you weren't headed. I think it would be better if the council here sent some conclusion to the executive, government and future governments not to put pressure on independent bodies. It is the same for a minister or prime minister to put pressure on the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court. Therefore, we must protect you, and thus protect the dignity of the home itself because the government comes out of parliament so that we must find some possibility that ministers cannot in this way in the independent bodies that are formed by the assembly cannot essentially put pressure on an independent body, where you simply must in media communication be brought into conflict with someone who should not be involved in your business at all in.../incomprehensible/... whether the law in changing the law, whether you are familiar or not I do not know what it is. You said you had no information about what was in the new law that changed, the minister announced by summer. However, this law is not yet in the procedure as far as I know in parliament, I expect that parliamentary representatives, here we are not in a large number here to finally protect the institution that we have established but also to protect parliamentary democracy from the coup of the executive authority, because this is how we turn out to be small from the entourage of the government, in fact, it should be. In fact, the government should answer to us, and this is not how it turns out that Lovro Kuščević has become the chief sheriff in Croatia. I know there won't be so much of a colleague of Bauk's hard on him, that they're down Bracans, that they're scurrying together, and that's familiar, but I mean, here's a fellow who's here to see if it's correct for an independent institution to put pressure on a minister whose authority isn't to put pressure on. At the very least, it is incorrect, if anyone were to try and answer this committee to anyone, then it is only to the representatives through acceptance, non-acceptance of the report, as founder and as one who is obliged to give the report. I know that the key message of this debate would have to be to remove the paws from the pressure on independent bodies in this case to the Committee of Conflict, to prevent conflicts of interest from moving away and to let independent bodies work in accordance with the law of their work, and what is all unclear, what the tribune to change or which tribune to change, we are in charge exclusively and only us as parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142396	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit, colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj responded to the replica because in your presentation, you were actually talking about the new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests that they keep locked up in a drawer somewhere. Why did I answer that? Because as president of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the strategy and curbing corruption, I have tried everything to win, if we are already changing the law as high as possible. Therefore, only the subject was put at the National Council meeting as a part of the agenda and we failed to get Minister Kuščević at the meeting once. Afterwards, with the support of the Ministry of Justice and Minister Bošnjakovic, we decided to organise a round table and invite everyone interested to clarify on the round table how to pass as much better law as possible and we asked of course that the round table should be responded to and Minister Kuščević, who refused to do so, so we did not even hold that session because it was pointless without Minister Kusčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142398	Thank you. Here's an answer to my colleague Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142399	Mr Jovanovic, as head of a lot of active committee, i.e. the bodies that i.e. I think it's a minimum of what a minister would do to send the very body you're headed to, to see that law, to see changes, to see changes, that, in that I mean, he can't tell the minister himself how the law will look. Then he humiliates the team to come to the vote, and what we're going to be is just a raiser's hand. And of course the tribal would pass through your commission this i.e. You are the chairman of this bill. However, obviously neither round tables, nor any debate except as Lovro Kuščević says, so it must be. And indeed, here's one more time, it's my parliamentary representatives who have to appoint those executives to take their paws off independent bodies that they have to bring regardless of everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142400	Thank you, buddy. The next debate is one of Sasa Djujic's colleagues. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Novakovic with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, at the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that we are extremely sorry that we are only discussing the report for 2017 today, and we are in the middle of 2019, and this is not the only example of the debate on reports in this House where we are discussing with a huge backlog, so things are happening in society, things are developing and it would be good for us in real time to discuss reports so that we can work precisely on the changes that are necessary for this system to work better. So, I'm going to remind you of the start of this committee's mandate, this commission is, the president has been elected in one way that is not good, so that's the way the HDZ over its knee broke the election of the president and where the president was essentially elected without the participation of the opposition, so, Mrs. President. Novakovic named HDZ as chairman with his coalition partners. And then what happens? Then the media already wrote that she was, I don't know, HDZ's wife, that HDZ's staff is in the commission and that the commission is now, I don't know, going to run HDZ's policy. But what happened? It happened that the commission still works well, and that is, it shows and justifies its function, and basically we were wrong about the opposition then, we should have been given support to Mrs. Novakovic and this commission, but because of the way HDZ did it, it didn't happen. The same thing is now with the new law, therefore, the law governing the prevention or conflict of interest should be adopted by consensus of all parties and all political options in this House of Commons. And what happened to us? It happened that today we have a government that is constantly in conflict of interest, where it is rare to find or doubt, that I am not here, that I do not assume the role of the commission, so it is rare to find a minister who is not under suspicion of conflict of interest. And at the beginning of this debate, I hear from my colleagues from HDZ that you are doing this on purpose in order to undermine HDZ, don't use your dinners and dinners in any future election campaigns. Now I ask the question, did the commission plant Mercedes in the courtyard of Minister Žalac? Did the commission form a group of Borg who wrote the Lex Agrokor Act? Who named him? He was named HDZ and the government. That's why she's here. Dalic, by the commission, concluded that she had violated the principle of public duty and therefore had to leave the post, Mrs. Martina Dalic, because of why you replaced Branko if everything was okay, I don't know, here, you've raised your line, so we'll discuss it, all right. The second thing, Zdravko Maric was in violation of the principle of duty according to the commission. Did the commission plant the square of Mr. Tolusic who is constantly in some kind of trouble and in some kind of affairs? Did the commission of Minister Maric determine property on the villa? No, it's not. So that's what this government is doing and this government is constantly in a latent conflict of interest, I'm going to say it like that. Minister Kuščević himself has surfaced in recent days that there are doubts that he may have some hidden property, and then what happens? Instead of proposing a law that will improve the work of the commission, which will define certain things, Minister Kuščević is going into a crusade against the Commission and is proposing to make changes to the laws that would then defacto rule this commission and where the commission should take over the role of the property card publisher without real powers. So, we have certain problems that are not well defined in this law and we need to work on it, so we need to set out more precisely the principles of public function behaviour, I am in favour of extending the powers of the commission, we have a series of examples of conflicts of interest that are visible to the naked eye at local level, but can neither be debated nor decided because they are not at all within the competence of the commission. The entire series of presidents of city and municipal councils in the Republic of Croatia is in a potential conflict of interest. Here, I'll tell you, I live in a town where the president of the city council is 10 years old. the city receives concessions for economic activity on the main city beach, so it gives itself concession approval, if you see, this is at least an important issue to be discussed. A man is not in conflict of interest because he is not at all covered by the President of the City Council by this law, the commission cannot discuss him. Maybe he wouldn't do it if someone told him he couldn't do it. So these are things where, where we should go, not attack the commission and not do what your government does, especially Minister Kuščević, and after the storm that went public, and then he put a new law proposal in the drawer somewhere now and now nobody knows what's going on. Well, I call on Minister Kustević to return to the procedure of the new law's proposal, let all of us start discussing it and let HDZ open up a wide debate and let us all work together on the consensus of all policy options on this issue, not doing what you're doing. We have a problem, an operational problem, therefore, in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest nowhere is the obligation to supply data to the Commission. I read in the papers, therefore, there is a situation where the commission has given up the proceedings or not the launch because it has not received information from the body against which the application is being conducted. We remember the situation when HDZ went to a party meeting on a government plane, I don't know if the commission got the information about this case today, I read in the paper that it didn't, that the government just didn't want to deliver it. The proceedings against the president, it gave up on him, on the decision to travel to America, President Kitarovic, because, I don't know, her office declared the data secret and then the commission couldn't discuss it. So these are some things that we need to talk about and that should be some basis for future law and write down there and write down certain deadlines, so there's nothing to deafen any body to the demands of the commission, state. So how can the government not send the commission the data it requires of them? This commission was chosen by the secret vote of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The government was elected by public vote. But both were elected by the Croatian Parliament. In my opinion, they even have greater legitimacy because they were chosen by a secret vote. Although the government is normally known by the Constitution as the Government so as not to be misunderstood. But the government can't get involved in the independence of the Committee's work. Minister Kuščević when he saw what was going on in the government he should have contacted the Committee and said – give us people help. Let's organize an education for members of the government. Apparently, people in this government don't know what they're supposed to do, so they don't know gross, net squares. We've been listening to a variety of nonsense in recent months in the Croatian public space that raises the question, I don't know, the sovereignty of the ministers. It's not their fault. Maybe they don't know? Maybe they don't know? That's why, Minister Kuščević was supposed to work on conducting the education of members of the government, so that the commission, people who are paid to do so, say that cards are being filled, which has to go in, which is gross, which is net, which is supplementary material, that Mercedes can't fall from the sky into someone's yard by itself, but that you should maybe report it if you have some kind of relationship with some and all that stuff so that officials don't get into the problem they're in, and not he's headed for the crusade. He'll take off their trivial processes. Oh, yeah? No, you won't, and we'll talk about it. And like my colleague Bauk said, we're not going to let you push it under the carpet and disengage this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142402	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of Branko Bacic's first. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Djujic, if HDZ is commenting on the Committee's decisions, does not comment on the reason why he is checking the blood cells of members of the Committee or of the president, but on why he agrees or disagrees with certain decisions. And we have the right as agents to comment on it. We do not deny the right of the Committee to decide under the law how it thinks it should be decided. But we have the right as parliamentary representatives today and otherwise to comment on such a decision. And as for Ms. Martina Dalic, you obviously confused the dates a little, because Mrs. Dalic resigned seven months before the Commission found that Mrs. Martina Dalic violated the principle of duty. Therefore, that decision by the Commission that you said was the basis for which Mrs Dalic had to resign is not true, because she resigned seven months earlier than the Commission had ruled.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142404	Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142405	I don't take your right to comment on the Committee's decisions and to give your opinion on them, as I do. So everyone's right. But there's no right for the minister to put pressure on the commission. So I read in the media statements and the president that she's under a terrible pressure. The pressure in the way I change your law and you won't be able to do what you want and that's pressure. You have no right to do that unless you're satisfied with the decisions. You have no right to say that there is a special war against you because you don't like some decisions. Comment them, but don't question them. As for Mrs. Dalic, okay. The commission's decision was made later, but she probably left because she was doing well. And she and Mr. Ramljak were doing great and they did a great job in Agrokor's case, appointed advisers who then included half a billion kuna for their fee and lawyers who recorded pre-election videos of HDZ, and then probably the prime minister decided to let her rest a little because she did a good job, so she was replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142406	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142407	You encouraged me to come forward because you expressed your dissatisfaction with the fact that it was so long before this item came to the agenda and discussed it. If you look at our consolidated agenda that we have received these days he has 72 points and the last 2 points which means that he practically does not want to discuss them I do not know for what reason, but I do know the points of the report on the work of the Committee on Higher Education and Science for 2016, I stress the 2016 year of colleagues and colleagues and 72th point 2017. So one key body of the Croatian Parliament appointed by the Croatian Parliament in this way shows absolute disrespect for the work of that body. But not just that. This body does not exist at present because for 2 years members and president of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education have not been elected, which only shows how we treat the bodies appointed by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142408	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142409	Not only are they late to discuss counterpart Jovanovic, but also watch the time. So this is a topic that certainly interests the Croatian public and which the Croatian public would like to follow. When are we discussing? Wednesday at 6:00 p.m., as if we couldn't discuss it, let's say tomorrow morning at some point. So, but you yourself said a whole series of reports we in this home are discussing with a backlog even bigger than this. Well, we discussed the state of affairs of the HERA at two years behind. So we're discussing something that was two years ago, and when we were 1.4, we got gas, electricity in Croatia and all that together. So we're also discussing data that are no longer valid. So these are the exact data and it's okay to discuss them, but in the meantime, from 2017 to today, so many things have happened and we should discuss it so that we can pass a new law, a law that would be better, and that would fix the future situation so that these things that have been happening in recent months don't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142410	And the last replica of your exposure to colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142411	Comrade Djujic, you're throwing names here, calling officials, calling the Commission and everything that's done. Is there a conflict of interest to you if a contest for Director Fortica in the Queen, a person who is the mother of a parliamentary representative, is being staged? I mean, when you point a finger at someone, then you have to accept something that's on others, on yourself. I won't mention names like you. You mentioned an official in Novi Vinodolski who allegedly sets up some sort of concession for himself. What about Fortico and Principal Fortice, and you know who it's about, and I'm not gonna say names?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142412	Thank you. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142413	My colleague Klaric, I did not mention the names of officials who allegedly set themselves up, but said that the president of the City Council in Novi Vinodolski was granted concession approval from a body in which the president of the city council has been for years. What you're saying about setting up a contest in Fortition isn't true, there's no contest, I know who this is about again, we can discuss it, we can discuss the process that's been going on and there's no problem, but you're not telling the truth. But I'm asking you again you're the mayor who hired the head of a utility company in his town of man who 3 months before that, the president of the HDZ Kostrena, 3 months before that, 15 days before that, escaped from the scene where he broke the official car of his municipal company and then convicted him, instead of being president of the HDZ, you arrested him in your town. Well, come on, you're talking. I don't mention the same names. You know who he's working with. how the congregation hired him, and the congregation you are one man. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So give it a look. [[Intruder: colleague.]] you can receive from others the same. [[Intruder: colleague Djujic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142414	I'd like to ask you first to watch your time. Another passion is good just put it in the frames where you are and do not in any way accuse and disdain any of the colleagues and the party is not the one who judges, but there are institutions in the Republic of Croatia. I would ask you nicely not to disrespect other fellow MPs in your future presentations. Here you are, colleague Klaric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142415	He was injured in 238, as Mr. Djujic called a person who had nothing to do with this case at all, satisfied the technical equipment, reported a competition, whether or not he had a car accident outside of the case has nothing to do with it. But here, when you're already looking for a language in this case, it was about your mom being placed in that position and being replaced by the mayor, after the intervention and everything else. So to call people It's not good. [[Agreement: colleague Klaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142416	I believe that Klarić was not injured by the Rules of Procedure and that you have misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and humiliated his colleague, Sasa Djujic, with these statements so that he would ask you nicely to stay away from such and similar behaviours in the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague, Djujic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142417	238nd colleague Klaric demeans his colleagues and tells the lie first. I'm not as excited as he is as I am, it's clear to me that after the black swans and the HDZ election flood that you're apart from you, Mr. Vice President, most of the others in HDZ are very shaken and very stressed. And give what within the party to work on it, fellow Klaric is visibly upset give him what calm down here because it is not this, the SDP has won in Bakru where he is mayor so that he would also be upset in his place, I don't know if it's the black swan or Pamela Anderson, but work on those things.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142418	I warned my colleague Klaric not to disrespect you, I would ask you nicely to stay away from it, and as for the tremors, don't worry about HDZ or me. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142419	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here at the end of this debate today, I'm going to take the opportunity to rarely have a subject that touches corruption to say a few sentences because we know that conflict of interest in itself is not corruption but is the lobby of corruption. And corruption is a major problem in the Republic of Croatia so we should take advantage of every opportunity to point out everything we need to do to make this fight more successful. And the prevention of conflicts of interest as a lobby of corruption certainly enters that category. We know that Croatia is located in a circle of corrupt countries both in 2017 and 2018, which is not good because corruption is a cancer of every society that violates fundamental social values and consequently causes a loss of public confidence in the bodies of the state government. You will probably all agree that our response to the elections in the Republic of Croatia is also a consequence of mistrust in the bodies of the public government. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the Croatian strategy to fight corruption as well as the associated action plan that has just ended this one that has brought the fight against corruption involves, above all, strengthening the integrity of the political system and administration, which includes, of course, combating conflicts of interest. Therefore, the fight against corruption involves strengthening the integrity of the responsibility and effectiveness of all public officials and bodies, increasing the effectiveness of the judiciary, strengthening the transparency of labour and decision-making at all levels of government, freedom of the media, strengthening their active role in the development and prevention of corruption, and of course strengthening cooperation with civil society in countering corruption. It also includes the security and strengthening of the role of the Committee for Conflict, the prevention of conflicts of interest, and not its denial, depravation and the inability to do even better the work it has done so far. Only in this way, thus strengthening all these bodies that play a preventive but repressive role in fighting corruption will increase public awareness of the causes and consequences of corruption and encourage every citizen to participate actively in the fight against corruption. If we look at our strategy, the old action plan as well as the one recently adopted by the Croatian government as a first goal highlights strengthening the integrity, accountability and transparency of public authorities, which means, among other things, a measure to prevent conflicts of interest and political corruption. Under the conditions of high corruption in which Croatia is presently located, the key issue is which are the institutions that contribute most to preventing conflicts of interest, fighting corruption and in which citizens have the highest or least confidence standard. According to a survey on the quality of citizens' lives on conflict of interest and the fight against corruption, Croatian citizens have very low confidence in social and political institutions. Here is the worst rating, of course, given by the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian government, the legal system and local authority. Rate level on scale 1 to 10 only 3. At the same time, if we look at a low opinion assessment shared by citizens according to Eurobarometer, 80% of citizens do not trust the government, 80% do not trust the parliament, 71% do not trust the legal system, 86% in political parties, 73% in local government, and it is clear that the fight against corruption in Croatia is difficult to reach a level that would satisfy us when there is no trust in the bodies of public authorities and all those who should fight corruption. So the conflict of interest and political corruption that has grown out of conflict of interest in the Republic of Croatia, including in this assembly, is a major threat to parliamentary democracy. So political corruption, high-level corruption that starts with the lobby of conflicts of interest is mocking institutions and the legal system. This form of corruption is a marked threat to democracy or to the preservation of the rule of law in every society. The conflict of interest is deeply rooted in every form of political corruption. Therefore, political corruption in HS directly dims citizens to go to elections and favours those in conflict of interest, who are corrupt. Change of party uniforms, voters' betrayal is an evident example of the voter's election will being denied and the parliamentary democracy in the Republic of Croatia has been improved. We heard often, forget privately, fight for the public, it was written once in the hall of the great council of Dubrovnik, and today it also writes on the home websites of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. This slogan permanently reminded the prominent Dubrovnik councillors that by entering the hall they forget about private interests and that they only care about social ones, which means that this slogan is also today, it should be worth it, not only for parliamentary representatives, but also for all officials from local to highest state level. Therefore, I will repeat, conflict of interest is the lobby of corruption, and political corruption without suppression leads to systemic corruption. Therefore, if we are to combat systemic corruption, we must first and foremost ensure that conflicts of interest are prevented. Systemic corruption stands out as a special type of corruption that is so widespread that it affects all sectors of society, and leads to a situation where people start to think that the battle against corruption can no longer be won. When it comes to systemic corruption that begins, I repeat, with conflict of interest, then it is thought of corruption that is so comprehensive that institutions, rules and standards of conduct have already adapted in such a corrupt way of action. In such environments bureaucrats follow corrupt behaviours and examples of politicians. Systemic corruption is the kind of corruption that has crossed a certain threshold of prevalence after which it becomes extremely difficult to stand up to it effectively, and in such societies and honest citizens become corrupt in order to survive. So to avoid systemic corruption, the first step is to effectively prevent conflicts of interest. In this way, we will fight not to overcome the attitude that you can already hear among our citizens, which is that only one who has not been offered a very high price is invulnerable. Therefore, our task is to prevent this, and the role of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is invaluable. Also, one study has shown that only 4% of citizens would report corruption and even 96% would not do so. Raising public awareness of the importance of fighting corruption, strengthening the role of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is certainly going to ensure synergies that will allow the Republic of Croatia to step out of a circle of corrupt countries. So trust in institutions and public authorities is crucial. You had the opportunity to probably review the book of Values in Croatia, which we had the opportunity to see promotion here in the Assembly, the book was published and produced by the Catholic Faculty of God and the Croatian Catholic University, which follows values in Croatian society from 1999 to 2018. According to this 2018 survey, the most trust in the Republic of Croatia is this slide, so it has an army 61%, then the education system 51% and police 46%, at the same time the least trust has a judicial system, social networks and trade unions only 15%, then the press, government and state administration 10%, and what we probably all have to be ashamed of, HS 8% and political party 4%. My colleagues and colleagues, for the work that we do, because we are members of political parties elected to this HS, that is something that we all, regardless of the party's color, must be deeply concerned about. However, it is even worse if we compare institutions from 1999 through 2009 to 2018, so this slide, from which you will see that HS in 1999 trusted 23% of citizens, in 2009 only 12, and in 2018 it fell to 8%. In 1999, the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia was trusted by 30% of them, 2009. 19 and 2018 only 15. Likewise, the trade unions in 1999 trusted 29%, 2009. 19, and 2018 15%. What many were surprised, and since the research was done by the Croatian Catholic College, therefore, the data is certainly credible, in 1999 the church was trusted by 64% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 2009. 53%, and in 2018 only 38%, so fall from 64 to 38%. The only one who still trusts other than the military and police is an education system which, therefore, is trusted by 51% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, but we have a 64% drop in 1999, over 57% in 2009 to 51% in 2018. Therefore, these are data that need us to be concerned, and we should be concerned that in the current action plan against corruption, the government did not include a verification of the credibility of the diploma of all public sector employees, in public enterprises, because it would obviously also throw trust in the education system in view of the very current data from the education system where false diplomas are found daily, and the number of departures from the school system of those who do not want to be caught with their fake diploma was increased. Therefore, support the commission and try to give them even greater opportunities to work even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142420	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. We have replicas, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142421	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Jovanovic, you have listed a really large number of data about the actual state of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, the very perception of corruption that is indeed still, not in the fall, but in the growing and you have listed a number of areas where corruption is actually emerging. Isn't it then, and that's what citizens say every day for the past two years that there's been a fall in the index of democracy, but then the increased departure of citizens from Croatia is precisely those who state that corruption is one of the main reasons; then it's strange that Minister Kuščević is dealing with the law and that he is too rigorous and wants to ease it even more instead of strengthening the work of the Committee itself to prevent conflicts of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142422	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic. [[Intruder Alfirev: Excuse me.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142423	My colleague, Alfirev, it is very doubtful and I am surprised that I have also spoken to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice a lot, with the very minister who does not really approve of this behaviour by the Ministry of Administration and the competent minister who wants in some way to prevent the Commission from doing better and better quality work. We should aim to ensure the fight against corruption because young people leaving Croatia point out that corruption of society is one important reason, but not only that. In our research on youth attitudes we can see that, I quote: “Young people are on average inclined to justify opportunistic behaviours that include the use of personal or family ties, which also consider them the main factor in achieving success in Croatian society.” Therefore, this attitude of young people almost shows that systemic corruption has started to appear in every segment of Croatian society, which will certainly not be good in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142424	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you explained to your colleague Jovanovic what a conflict of interest is, which is a corrupt action and everything else. But I would remind you that on 9 January 2013, when you were Minister of Science and Education, a competition was opened in Slavonia's Voice for a job in valosotherapy in Opatija, which was only January 28th you were elected there as an employee. When you're so much fighting corruption, which was rather an eclectic conflict of interest when the minister in charge of the University of Osijek asks the dean... in Osijek to open a tender that will be for him alone? [[You don't understand.]] Well, I think it's to drop a man off his feet when he sees this kind of data that's publicly available and made public. That's what you did when you were at the mercy of Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142426	Dear fellow Djakic, I would like to ask you to stick to the subject and not to disrespect your colleagues in any way. But here's an answer to the replica of the esteemed colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142427	I expect you to apologize now after what I say to you and publicly here because, among other things, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has applied against me and has freed me in every respect of any violation of the principle of credibility and especially conflict of interest. So I wasn't in a conflict of interest. I have a solution to the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and I ask you and your colleagues not to use these false accusations against me in the future, and I expect you to apologize publicly to everyone in front of the Croatian public for what you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142428	Thank you, dear colleague Jovanovic. Next is a debate between respected counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Presidents of the Committee, respected members of the Committee, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. I've applied for an individual debate to say a few words about this report and about the work of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. I must say that I support the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that I was a member of the Government when the law of the original law was passed in 2011 and today's intention and today is that the law and the Commission which is the basis of the law and appointed here in the Croatian Parliament in a certain way is a prevention that will contribute as little to the conflict of interest as possible that they are aware that in their conduct of duty they must be impartial and that any bias is not subject to their private interest. So it was a fundamental task of the law itself. And on the other hand, to educate a number of MPs, officials so that they would not find themselves in a position to come into conflict of interest. But I'll talk about that education later. Now I'm going to say what I said on the Committee on the Constitution and what I think is right for me is the interpretation of the law. I've been talking about it for a long time. There is already, here in the Croatian Parliament from the first day I am speaking and commenting in this sense on the Commission's decision when, in my opinion, I confirm that the Commission takes over those powers which are not given by law itself in jurisdiction and that it arbitrarily interprets the law when it determines that an individual official has violated the principle of duty. I claim it's an arbitration interpretation and for reasons that a violation of the conduct of duty is not subject to sanctions. If there's no sanctions, then it's not a violation of the law. So if, for something that you're determining that an official has violated one of the principles is not a sanction, then I think you should refuse such an application and find that the official is not in conflict of interest. Because a large number of citizens, almost all of Croatia's citizens, a professor at the Faculty of Law at the Department of Constitutional Law are before... From this same pay phone, he said that, that, if Mrs. Dalic or someone else were third, some official who had found that he had violated the principle of conduct of duty should resign, believing that he was in conflict of interest. [[You don't understand.]] And you, in that way, when you find that an official is in violation of the principle of conduct of duty, you expose him to the public because the public realized that you as a committee officer who decides whether he is in conflict of interest or not, in fact, you have found that he is in conflict of interest and therefore must bear sanctions or should bear sanctions, and, behold, this same law because you told him that he is in violation of the principle of conduct of duty, did not impose sanctions. I keep what I said and on the Committee of the Constitution, that it reminds me of a situation where a private prosecutor personally sues me that the particle I'm keeping, arranges, let the parcel in his possession and the court through the implementation of the evidence finds it my plot, not that prosecutor, but then the judge so little the same... That I don't treat this plot with the attention of a good master. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not my plot, and it's not the prosecutor's right, but it's my fault in a certain way and because I haven't been swimming, which isn't a vineyard, but it's a forest or maquis, so then I'm not a good master of that plot, according to that particle that's mine and I'm holding that it's not my way and it's practically coming out of those frameworks that the law itself gave you, to you, to me, as I interpret the law, the principle of acting as a duty and other principles are tools and instruments that will prescribe whether Branko Bačić or some other state official in conflict of interest or not. So much for arbitrarily interpreting the law. As for the educational part, namely, that reminds me of Mr. Sasa Djujic, I am sorry that he is not here, when he said that your decision on the principle of principle, on the division of the principle of duty was a cause and in, the reason that Martina Dalic resigned, so I told him nicely that he was wrong for the very reason that your decision came after Martina Dalic resigned, therefore, that was not the reason. But I am now interested, reportedly last week, the Republic of Croatia's Administrative Court on the case, Martine Dalic, has annulled your decision that it has violated the principle of duty. I, I have such information, so you, deny me because in your lawsuit, she stated that you were supposed to be the president of the case in which you decided on her conflict of interest because you came to the post of chairman of the commission as former HUP employee whose one of the biggest financiers was Agrokor or Ivica Todorovic, I don't know, that's what I have information, if it's not right, you publish it, is that in that case you should have asked HS for an opinion if you were in conflict of interest when you decide in a case that is affecting the possible conflict of interest of Martina Dalic because of Agrokor who was the main financier of yourself, alone, the HUP itself whose employee you were. Here, if that's true or not true, then you can deny it or not deny it. Why am I saying that? I am saying this for the reason that once an official can act unconsciously whether he is in breach of the principle of conduct of duty or not, when you prescribe a certain penalty, or when you prescribe a measure, norm, as it will be called by that legal language, I am not a lawyer, and in this way political harm is done to the official whether you or not, for something that you cannot punish by law, how complicated it is to have that procedure to verify whether or not it is, this information says if it is correct, that you, as chairman of the commission, were able to find yourself in a conflict of interest because you acted in one case, which is why you should have been excluded if that information is correct. So, I would like to say that it can be noted, that in any way, any official, any Croatian official, may be given a certain warning, but that it is not possible to leave an impression behind your decision on whether someone has violated the principle of conduct of duty, the impression that this official is in conflict of interest, I say to the extent that this, such a decision you have made, I say to the professor at the Faculty of Law here at HS, Mr. Podlonjak, is the basis for someone to resign or not. That is why it is necessary to correct in this sense and it is right that the Minister of Administration is right and I agree with all those who say that this clear distinction should be done, which is a classic conflict of interest, which is a violation of the principle of conduct of duty, it is very important that in this way if someone does something that according to your assessment, which is arbitration, I say, according to your assessment did not act in accordance with the law, your decision remains a mark and marks the work of that representative, or that official, does not have to be a representative, may be a minister or any other, for the entire time of his term and is put under his nose, if I may say so, the decision of the commission itself. Therefore, I think that, not only that, but some other elements that should be prescribed by law, which should clearly define the work and actions of the Committee itself to prevent conflicts of interest, and in this sense, it is necessary to amend this law, and here I am supporting the Minister of Administration to move towards amending the law so that, not only that, but also other decisions of yours that the Administrative Court, not for your term of office, but also before, and in your term of office, will be annulled and that your work will then be where and where more transparent and clearer and as regards the Commission itself, and as regards us officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142430	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. We have several replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142431	Dear counterpart Bačić, you mentioned the educational part and gave several examples. I'm asking myself the whole question, listening to these discussions, the question, is that we have to publish, that we have to give information, that we have to have a property card, and I'm asking why one of us, why would anyone be able to read what the address of the president's apartment is, for example, what property does she have, if she's got her name, which is her income, does she have two, three apartments, does she have a garage, does she have land, what do you have of it all? So, I personally think, and I don't know that there are such examples in the Republic of Croatia, my colleague Bauk, in his debate, touched all this when it came to the moment that all this was made public because it was a big pump in the media. Now the question is, how fair is it to all of us, our families and everyone else? So I'm talking about 3,000 officials. ... You can tell. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now I Googled yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142432	Thank you, dear colleague. Please don't replicate with the parliamentary deputies. We have your colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Klaric, there was a word when the law was passed on to the extent of the powers and the powers of the Commission itself. It seems to me that part of these powers was the Constitutional Court and reduced if I am not mistaken because it was the possibility of questioning the Committee of Intruding in the work of the Tax Administration, the banks, etc. where individual officials' accounts would be questioned. I believe that it is good for the hygiene of Croatian society, that it is good for raising the level of democracy in society, because of the public work of an individual official to establish, I am not running away from our property being available to everyone so that everyone can look at the property so that at the beginning and at the end of the term of office or later compare the incomes and i.e. the growth of the property as it moved in relation to the incomes of an individual official. That's good. I'm not running away from it. I wouldn't hide an absolute asset from a single official. In fact, it is good to establish the real assets he has when he enters his duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142434	Thank you. Dear colleague Djakic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142435	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, you spoke of the doubtfulness of certain decisions and the initiation of proceedings of conflict of interest. I'll only name one. When an official assigns the institution 5 million kuna, 5 million kuna and then becomes employed and elected in it and it is not an equident conflict of interest. The solution is that it's not the gentleman's fault. I think I either don't understand the legal provisions or someone's misreading them. Yes, and some judgments are equally binding and we must respect all decisions of the courts that are in the second degree and stick to them as well as the Committee, not to mention that they are some kind of flatulence or who knows what kind. That shouldn't happen and that's what this report actually stands for.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142436	I thank my colleague Djakic. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142437	I agree with my colleague Djakic. It may be indicative that someone assigned an institution while acting as a certain amount of money so that, at the end of the term of office, you could secure a job and in any other way benefit from the institution where the funds were allocated as an official. That's why I'm saying that it takes such things from this practice that is already behind us for eight years based on all the data that we've received, based on the work of the Commission, based on these questions that you're asking this law, is going to pass a law that will also be able to prevent these things that you said or which will go beyond this law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142438	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142439	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you have touched a number of topics that are very difficult to prescribe by law. However, I think that here today, because of all these stories here, HDZ passed the Law on the financing of political parties, HDZ passed the Law on the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. Everyone else had the opportunity to upgrade after that law. So all these balalaiks I heard here today are something that just doesn't stand. However, what amazes me about this law change story, so the Commission is based on its experience and the things that it practically comes across, it makes some kind of suggestion. We, in our own political experience, make some kind of suggestion. And I think that this kind of behavior you'll forgive me for saying "two goats on a hill" doesn't lead anyone well and it's simply something that shouldn't happen. Why? Because the law brings this high house, and the commission submits its report to this high house, and I think everyone has to keep that in mind when they say things.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142440	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Shuker. The responsibility in the preparation of the law is with the Government and the restoring ministries, and the adoption of the law is at this high house. And that's why the government, and we're also members of the ruling majority right now, whether we're okay or not, we've prepared that law and we've passed the test in the election. And to us, at least, that right which we are founded by the Constitution is given that laws should not be troubled. Anyone can go to the election, go to the election game, come here and sit there and make the laws the way they think it's the right thing to do. Well, to me, like you said yourself, it looks like a ballad on this side that's been in power for four years, and it could have created these laws. And this law and the law relating to the financial aspect of the work of officials and the behaviour of officials could change and do it the way they think it is, and not resent something that we have brought and have not entered at all... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142442	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Marin Schibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142443	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I would agree with some discussions of previous other parliamentary deputies who stressed that it is bad that the 2017 Report is only coming now. This 2017 report refers to former Commission President Dalia Oreshkovic, who believes a large part of the public that Dalia Oreshkovic has done the job well. After that, he replaced HDZ from that function. She tried to find herself in the political let's say arena, but from that cycle of election processes we see that she has not achieved any more significant results. The conflict of interest is a phenomenon that is becoming more and more pronounced in Croatian society and we see that the political authority that should be an example and a role model for Croatian citizens is actually something diametrical, that political power is a negative example that de facto encourages other segments of the social community to such irresponsible and harmful behaviour. It should be said that lately the media has often announced the conflicts of interest of individual HDZ ministers means we have a situation that every so many media outlets reveal a potential conflict of interest of the other minister. I think it's a worrying situation, but as a society, because we have an exponential growth in the behavior of certain individuals who behave responsible functions, we've become more and more tolerated at such things, e.g. In China, officials who enter water functions mean them by prisons that they can visit those officials who have engaged in corruption at their functions to see and to regain awareness of where they will end up if they follow their path. Well then, in this context, I think that such a thing might be good in Croatia, as this concept of conflict of interest escalates at least in this current HDZ government. The prevention of conflicts of interest must be conducted not only through institutions, I believe it is the responsibility of each individual to point to certain conflicts of interest. The conflict of interest is not only in these public institutions which act as a certain authority, but also in certain other segments of the social community, formal or informal, meaning everywhere in society there is a potential danger to conflicts of interest and if individuals in society are. Croatian citizens will not become increasingly aware that this is indeed a problem, this cancer will affect us that we will no longer be saved. The conflict of interest has already been recognised as a possible problem in the judiciary, so the rights of many states have provisions that prevent the conduct of judicial proceedings to persons who may be considered or directly related to parties in the dispute. In Croatia, such things often happen, my personal impression is that even when people report these things that there is no timely and actually valid reaction to such details in our system, and therefore more and more people do not believe in institutions, does not believe in the judiciary, the judiciary has become a cancer of our society's wounds and more people are simply in that position that they are depressed and defetistically looking at our institutions and system. We have recently had the situation that the judge from Rab, Mirela Rodin, has sent a request for a previous decision to the European Court on the law that I have proposed in the Croatian Parliament and such a law is generally known to assist Croatian citizens who have entered into credit contractual relations with illegal creditors. Otherwise, since we entered the EU, there are only 12 such previous questions to the European Court of Justice, which means very little, but Judge Mirela Rodin felt that a law should be reviewed that helps Croatian citizens and asked in my opinion very trendy questions. However, she has every right to do so and every judge has the right to do so. But we're running into a problem? We're facing a problem when she publicly admits that her husband's brother has a loan right at the party in the process, so it's this Raiffeisen St. Stefan and there comes this problem because she also says that she lives in a property that is mortgaged and Raiffeisen St. Stefan's a cooperative. And so such a judge of all possible judges was found to question the law and send a preliminary question to the European Court of Justice. And not only that, after she asked the previous question, she withdraws from all court proceedings in which she tried with Raiffeisen cooperatives on the grounds that she sued citizens for libel, but that citizens' initiative means none of them ever got a criminal application. And we have reported this to the competent institutions and the DORH and USKOK and certain other institutions, 6 to 7 months have passed, there are no answers, since the citizens believe our Croatian institutions they are headed to Brussels and then they have reported it all to OLAF because it has taken proportions and European institutions so that right now there are a number of cases on OLAF and I believe that if Croatian institutions cannot and do not have the will to investigate such things, then there may be a lot of such things, then some other European institutions may be more interested. Officials shall not be in any relationship with persons who may influence their objectivity, citizens shall have the right to know the behaviour of officials as public persons who are involved in the conduct of their duties. Let us remember, for example. only Mr. Todorovic and how many politicians he has actually hired after the end of their mandates, can it be said that they acted objectively and their function when, immediately after the end of the term of office, this one was employed by Mr. Todorovic or, for example, by Mr. Todorovic. in the Croatian National Bank we also have a situation that people working in the Croatian National Bank that are closer to them let's say the closer part of the family relationship worked for certain private banks and are closely connected to these certain banks where there is a clear financial interest. In Croatia, such things are at stake. However, I think that's a really crucial problem with us. But we can see that this is happening in some more orderly states. Here you have now seen in Austria recently with the Vice-President of Austria, which is why the Austrian government eventually fell. So we're no exception. It's simply related to the nature of man. But we should certainly work to minimise this conflict of interest. In that context, I welcome this commission, the work of the commission. I believe that you, as chairman of the Committee, have continued the good work that Dalia Oreshkovic has done. Therefore, my support you have, but it should be said that I would personally give greater authority to the Committee for Conflict of Interest. I believe that sanctions should be much higher, punishments should be much higher, and then public officials might learn a little better lessons than they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142444	Thank you, dear fellow Schibol. We have replicas. Dear colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142445	Dear fellow Schibol, I can support most of your performance. I would only warn you because you mentioned that he replaced Dalia Oreshkovic with HDZ. Dalia Oreshkovic has expired. And what kind of person it is, you're from Rijeka, like me in that neighborhood, in the media you can read her views, her statements about this part when she caught the politics after the Committee. It calls the legitimate action "Walk for Life" totalitarianism, constitutionalism, and has used such words that I think someone who has been on this job is in no way agreeable. And in this case, so she hasn't been removed, she hasn't been removed by the HDZ, and I don't know how, she just expired.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142446	Thank you. Dear fellow Scybola response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142447	Thank you, Mr. Claric. I can agree with you that it was really inappropriate statements and that one person who led the Committee of Conflict of Interest should not make such statements and insult certain groups in society who have the right to present their opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142448	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142449	Thank you very much. I agree with the conflict of interest of the judges i.e. Justice in the judiciary. People who work in the judiciary, however, this is obviously not regulated, so you set a good example. These are examples... The credits of our damages that you have proposed to the law of integrity by you is also called. [[You don't understand.]] I'm in... The mandate talked a lot about it. [[You don't understand.]] And it's really amazing that what a savings cooperative... Austria is not allowed and is persecuted by the State's Attorney's Office here in Croatia by a law which has been adopted unanimously by two-thirds of the majority of MPs than I do not know which law is passed unanimously by another judge to question, and that, personally, in conflict of interest or members of her family, they use the same services of these savings cooperatives. How is this problem solved by the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the rest, that's the question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142450	Thank you. The answer of my fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142451	I agree, Comrade Bull. Well, just because institutions are not effective with us on dealing with these things then certain officials and dare to do such things, question and de facto be in conflict of interest. How to solve this general problem of the system I don't know, but I certainly think that we should increase sanctions, because when sanctions are increased, when punishments are stronger, bigger and more in scale than they are today, then those who get those things will think twice about whether they'll go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142452	I'd like to thank my colleague Schibol for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142453	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Committee of Associates, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here today, when we talk about the report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest in 2017, I would say that it is clear to all of us that the Commission should work in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that almost every single one of us officials must have some kind of objection or demand that something in this Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests be changed. However, this is another topic, and it will certainly be the topic of discussion very soon in this assembly, and then we will be able to express our satisfaction or dissatisfaction on the subject. However, in your report, your report also states in the law that the Commission is obliged to carry out the procedure and recognise potential conflict situations of interest. He says, "The subject of interest can result in abuse of position." And here I think there is a great responsibility and responsibility on you and a great opportunity to reconsider certain situations. However, just in 2017, which we are talking about here and whose report and which we have on stand benches, although the report would say more statistical data than thematically processed which I think would be just as good, because then this could benefit us from the adoption of amendments and the addition of this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So in 2017 after the local elections, specifically here I was Mayor of the City of Vodice, the new mayor came to town, coming to town a memo to show whether changes and additions to the spatial or urban plan had occurred in the past, whether there was an expansion of the construction area or a change in the agricultural sector in construction and whether the former leader had a particle in that area in his possession? At first, I thought it was a report, but my colleague, Mr. Josip Boric, is Chief Lopara, the same memo came to him, not all colleagues were surveyed, but mostly such correspondence went to the local self-government units of municipalities and cities. Namely, the one who came to that idea should know, if something is brought in transparently, it must be urban and spatial plans. That there is both public insight and public debate, 30 days means open to any objections from any citizen to come, look and make their remarks. A number of consents from public authorities, institutions, ministries, public administration offices, etc. they also agree, ultimately, with a spatial or urban plan of the city or municipal council. So the mayor doesn't sign that. Now, I think if we're gonna go this far then we can say that I don't know the mayor or the chief is going to build kindergarten because his wife or daughter is a raiser and he's going to find a job or because he has kids and it's appropriate for him to open an area of school in his area. I mean then we can go before, too far. In addition to our families being marked and not allowed to deal with cities and municipalities, our friends, godfathers are not allowed to be employed in any institutions now we are still punishing people who have land next to our land. So it's never going to expand the building land or change for one particle, it's on multiple dozens of particles without saying 100ths. And if he happens to have a municipal chief or mayor there, then we have to bypass that area. It's clear if we, I'm from Vodice, born in Sibenik, but my parents are from Vodice, my husband is from Vodice, his parents are, and it's clear that I have land in Vodice. And so the whole area for all the duration of my mandate should never be built and punish all the eye, all the surrounding neighbors and particle owners. That's a lot of revolting for all of us in the field, and I'm glad I didn't hear after that that, that you went this way. I know that any move we make is subject to public condemnation, that the perception of the public is that the mayor is the mayor, and the sheriff doesn't know what he's doing, but I think no matter what it is you're tasked with identifying potential conflict situations of interest that you should still consider where this possibility is greater or less. And one more thing, the report says that you also have a duty to keep tax secrets under the General Tax Code, I don't know exactly what that data refers to since I see that from the amount of rental shares and all the possible data in our card are available to all the media. It says you're only required to deliver certain information to public authorities, but I don't know what our journalists don't have. Here's the appeal that everything the law tells you to do, but if you say you need to recognize potentially controversial situations, that you're not making anything very big out of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142454	I thank my esteemed colleague. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the final word of the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142455	Thanks to the well-respected chairman, the respected president with his associates, colleagues and colleagues from the conflict of interest that separated the Croatian and national interests and national resources, which essentially sold out because if we start from telecommunications, from energy companies such as INA, all of these national resources essentially made it a conflict of interest, so that we lost telecommunications where today we have foreign teleoperators where we have the biggest profit in the Republic, and it was all a conflict of interest from the Mudrinić who started, the SDP who ended up such a case was also with INA, the white nights that started this with Linic, ended with Sanader I don't know that all this was going on, but there was always this conflict of interest and it was visible through judicial means of proceedings that always the conflict of interest was the one who grew up not only that the felga on the vehicle was steel hand and that the key was important to say that the same importance of the Minister in the conflict, which the minister was important to the minister's opinion. There is no problem that he will propose the law, give it in the procedure to us parliamentary representatives, but he claims that the commission is engaged, until now it has dealt with irrelevant matters or trivial matters, as he says he is dealing with the Commission's nonsense, which is the humiliation of this independent body and bringing the public perception that essentially the body is not necessary. If it deals with trivial things as Lovro Kuštević says, then we better shut down that commission if we have formed it or we will give them the strength of an independent body that we are all subject to to this body no matter what we personally have as officials perception about it, but we must not allow one minister to humiliate us first as parliament, our parliamentary representatives this body that we have established. So we have to stand up, no matter which government is either on the left or on the right. So here is the question of our parliamentary representatives, but the fact here is a colleague of Shkybol's was just talking about the Raiffeisen damage case, Raiffeisen's savings-credited these credit associations which in Hungary are unable to access, which in Austria, therefore, are coming, it is forbidden, pursued by their state's attorneys, but in the Republic of Croatia they operate through judicial judicial bodies, which unanimously passed this law on the integrity of these loans, unanimously, to now appeal to the European Commission, the European Court of Justice, so that it would be a complaint and that judge is essentially still in the judiciary today. What is the responsibility of these people who are in the judiciary, whether they have any conflict of interest, and it is evident that they have, which means that much more large things that are financial character, this is a damage to the state, financial, it is a huge amount of amounts, there are numerous damages, these are all the islands of Rab, I don't know, people who are under these worthless loans, who, that life is back, can't pay interest back and that are illegally against and the CNB didn't stop for protection, but it's also against the law and against the monetary, impacting monetary policy, but it works in us and of course it emphasizes trivial things, trivial things, it's stupid, I mean, we have to here as representatives and representative body of our people to bring the best laws and preserve independent bodies, we are obliged to keep the independence of these bodies, and if it's not right, then we have to change it if something is missing in the law of conflict of interest. We have an anti-corruption commission here in HS, we have people who are relevant, we have people who are professional, we have round tables, but the fact that everything in the Republic of Croatia is moving through a conflict of interest, and it's not now a question of one party, two parties, it's just so based that, it's old that everything is passing only interest is eternal, and while this interest is being carried out in essence, Croatian national wealth has spread, everything that has been tribalded, therefore we have 2/3 of the RH empty, even HEP Tribbao is sold 25% of the shares, as reportedly will be bought by INA and so, so, all of it is absorbed by the interests and the mention of fellow Bauka where Dalia Oreshkovic, da Dalia Oreshkovic, has acted, and it is known that the case of consultation has taken place. So, I can't have Jozo Petrovic putting together a government that's a consultant, it can't, I won't let it, now I don't know who's putting it together, it's less important, Valentić, Greguric, it doesn't matter at all. So conflict of interest is a problem for Croatian society and has diverged Croatian economic resources And destroyed the future. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142456	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. In the name of the rapporteur, the esteemed lady. Natasha Novakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142457	Well, if I'd known it would last this long, at first I'd have responded to everyone, but well, now it's too late to repent. So, first of all, a few questions were, therefore, Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Djujic, Mr. Bulj, for starters they asked what was going on with the new law and whether we were involved in making a new law. Which is the fact that we were involved until May last year, so until the time we were in the task force, as well as the other members of the task force. Afterwards, the conclusion at the last working group meeting was that before the law went out in public, the ministry would send all members of the task force to do so. However, we never got it, nor did other members of the task force, we saw it in August when it was publicly published, when all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia saw it. After that, then, that was before, now it'll be almost a year since there's been no communication, so we don't have any communication with the Ministry of Administration, we don't know where the law is, we don't know what form it's going to go out or when it's going out. Now, I've asked my colleague from the Department of Administration if he knows anything, he says he's ready, but he doesn't know when the law will go into procedure, so that's about the law itself and the knowledge that only the commission has. Mr. Podolnjak stated the fact, among other things, that the 260.000,00 kn in the name of sanctions is little, I would agree that it may be a small one, and I would point out that we have problems with the payment of sanctions, and since they cannot be charged after the official is no longer in that position. Also, the fact is that if you really look at me, we don't say very often those high sanctions of 30 and 40.000,00 kn even though there are such officials, and even those who repeat them more times, so they get 30 and 40.000,00 kn sanctions more often, I don't see that preventing them, actually, that the level of sanctions in that is preventing them. As for Mr. Bulj's presentation, and regarding Mr. Kuštević's statements that we are dealing with trivial matters and that we need to be narrowed down by powers, which I would add to Mr. Shuker's statement because I think Mr. Kuščević and I as two goats, I suppose that was true of me and Mr. Kuštević. So, at no point did I initiate a conflict with Minister Kuštević, so when he attacks us through the media, I just fight back because I won't let anyone attack the commission, I never, nor have I turned over, I always say the information that is such, a year and something we don't have. The attack is definitely if someone tells you that you're arbitrary and they're going to cut your powers, so it's an absolute attack through the media, I'm not going to shut up about it, nor should I be silent about it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142458	Just keep going, I'd like to ask you nicely, colleague Shucker, don't get into Mrs. Schooker's word. Novakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142459	So that was, then, two weeks ago and the fact is that that's when I answered through, through the media, Mr. Kuštević, and I still think I should have done it. Is that why we feel the pressure? Well, since he's a resolute minister who makes us a law at the very end of the line that we don't know what it's going to look like, that's a certain kind of pressure if someone tells you that they're going to stop at the end of your will, which doesn't even explain what our will is, because we don't know what it is today, because we don't even know what it is that we're on our own free will. As for Mr. Shucker's remarks, I'm really not a financial expert and I can apologize, I really might be right, the financial part for the office's representative, he was in contact with the Ministry of Finance and what I read was made in communication with the Ministry of Finance, they were wondering, I'll do it, if that's the case, I'll really try to correct it, what's true is that 5. This is what our reports look like... Okay, fine. [[You can't hear a Shucker raider.]] But in any case, the reports are as they are, and no one has ever asked the question about $3.00.00 how much difference is there. Mr Djakic, concerning the ruling of the Administrative Court, therefore, a few months ago, the Administrative Court made one decision that he said we should not deal with among other principles. However, this first and first is not an unlawful decision, except for that decision, you have 5 different decisions of the Administrative Court, and you have the decision of the High Administrative Court which is under that Administrative Court, so it is nothing to be taken into account at this time, and since it is an inadmissible decision. Let's move on, Mr. Podolnjak, so the fact is, and I would agree that it's better if the law stays the way it is, if it's going to be worse than it is. The proposal for a law that was under discussion in August last year cannot find any significant improvements to the very conflict of interest institute so that it should be considered if it is going in the direction in which these changes are going. As for the regular check, Mr. Podolnjak said that we should establish the property cards ourselves, so that's what journalists often do, that's the fact, so we have over 3,000 property cards we can't even at any point with the regular check we started with at the end of 2018, we can't control all the cards. The additional problem is that land books are not arranged, so when you get to some real estate you can check the part after that especially as off-book property you have to write to all courts to get concrete information and to say that the regular check is clean, it's very difficult. However, the fact is that property cards are transparent precisely for the very reason that the public can control, because the public knows better than I do what anyone in Dubrovnik or my card has. However, it is also true that there is no address in the property card, that it is not pleasant, the fact that it is not pleasant, but if you are an official, you have agreed to have your property card published. The opinions and the manual, yes, we should, we should issue a manual absolutely, but what's also true is that we hold education, last week we held 4 educations, these educations really are not some big response. I would also say that last year, at the 9th month, we invited the government and the RS Assembly to organise a round table on which we would discuss what is wrong with the law, which we should change, to see your perspective, to see where we are wrong, where you are wrong, because we ourselves consider the law to be rigorous and unnecessary, but from the government to the day we have not received any answer, after the haste the Assembly replied to us to describe ourselves a little bit more, so we have described it in more detail, so we still have no answer, we have no answer. Mr. Felak, therefore, he referred to the fact that it is crazy to be politically independent before we are elected, and that after that as former President Dalia Oreshkovic we can agree on it but not in a way that you can't erase it, that you're not in a political party before you're in the commission because it would be very bad, that someone who is politically active being in the commission that then decides, but we certainly have no problem with putting.../incomprehensible/... i.e. a period of payment and for members that they can't be in a certain period of politics, so it's not at all a question. As for Mr. Bauk, I would just like to say that conflict of interest has no sanctions nor principles, so conflict of interest does not exist sanctions for that and someone else has said that. So, principles and conflict of interest alone do not have sanctions for this, precisely, that is exactly what it is related to, and this is about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. So if, if the justification for not running the procedure by principle was because there were no sanctions, then there would be no way to prevent conflicts of interest to initiate the procedure, and it is the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, therefore there is no logic. Yes, we also believe in the commission that some things should be changed and we are still open to change although we do not know whether, now, whether we have time, what I would like to mention is that in December 2018, GRECO issued a report saying, among other things, that before the adoption of the new law, there should be a big broad debate on the law itself, that they are aware of certain problems related to the new law, but it has not yet happened, so since December to this day there has been no debate on the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, nor the legislator may have intention, we do not know, but nothing such a type has been organised. Mr. Djujic said that the local level should be more controlled, we agree with that, we had a few suggestions in, for the new law to be a little bit more covered and every time we went to the field really in the local communities they rebelled themselves and said that you should perhaps follow a little more because there is everything there and that we really think that, but simply there was no, there was no hearing on the other side. As regards the delivery of documents, Mr Djujic also referred to the fact that there is no sanctions, so there is a need for state authorities to forward the documents without delay to the Commission, but the fact is that in some cases not after 5-6 months, after 3-4 haste we do not receive concrete contributions, we even get an indication, so we are correspondence but we do not receive contributions, sanctions for this do not exist. Mr. Bačić, he talked about the principles, we talked about it on the board, but as I do now think that, I just think that, my position is that you're wrong, I'd say that Mr. Shakespeare said that the legislator of the law was the one who was and that the principles should be run normally, I don't think we're acting arbitrarily. So the conflict of interest also has no sanctions, no principles, none of that matters to me, so it doesn't matter to me that there's no sanctions. In addition, we have the judgments of both administrative courts and this one Mr. Djakic mentioned which is the opposite, and we have a High Administrative Court that has no problem with principles and I really don't think there is a need for that explanation at this point. And with that, I'd say that in all these years, no one has ever formally questioned why the principles, so you said that you stood out, but I really haven't, I haven't written down anywhere to have a problem with principles, the principles have become a problem here about two months ago. It is also interesting that you have told Martina Dalic, namely this verdict has not yet been published, so it is interesting where you even get the information about it, but it has not been annulled, so neither the court has entered, whether I should have been exempt or not, the court has entered into that it has not been formally decided on the exemption, and this procedure will have to be, so first we will have to address the competent body, which will then decide whether I should be excluded or not, and then ic will re-trial, has nothing to do with the principles, so its principles and my exemption have nothing to do with anything. Furthermore, I have worked at HUP, Mr. Todorovic I have never met in my life, that he was one of the members of the HUP, was the president, as well as the mass of them, so I know almost all the members, members of the management of Croatian companies, so I worked in that position, so it wasn't Mr. Todorovic that I knew anything about any other, or in any way, that could have brought me to Mr. Todorovic, and that would be discussed by someone else who was in charge of it, I should have given myself an exception, absolutely not, there was an object in which I was exempt and when I felt connected with the person I knew, Mr. Todorovic, I don't know, nor was ever my position anywhere dependent on him. As for the property cards, they are on the web, they are published, however, what we have pollemized, I apologize for being in the middle of an I.D., there is no address, so you can't see the address on the property card, so on that side probably people know where you live, in that place where you live, but they don't know through our property cards. Mr. Schibol said that sanctions should be greater, perhaps even, perhaps some great sanction would deter others from committing some law violations and preventing conflicts of interest, but in the autumn, we should be a preventive body, but sometimes it is a good punishment for prevention that no one ever repeats, so I can agree in that part. Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, therefore yes, you had the procedure, so there was the application, I consulted my colleagues if I didn't, I wasn't here that year and the fact is that they were requested as in any other process data, but you finally got a decision, the procedure wasn't initiated against you, so we acted as in each, we simply have to fill out the application. What is the fact that your families and godmothers don't have to be excluded, they can't, it's not the problem that they're employed or having business relationships, the problem is that you're involved, so nobody says, nobody says they can't, and it would be crazy that they can't get a job, but they really have to be excluded, you really can't participate in this process. I think I've answered everything, if there are any further questions, I'm at your disposal and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142460	Thank you. Novakovic on this final word. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142461	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Novakovic, thank you very much for your answers, for the questions I personally asked, I am pleased with your answer, but I am not satisfied with what is being created, I will repeat it always here, creating pressure on an independent body such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, and you yourself have said that the minister with his, meaning, statements in the media of pressures, saying that he will finally deal with important things, that it is a lot more commission to deal with this way, it is simply a huge pressure, and we as parliamentary representatives must protect independent bodies from the pressure of individuals from the government. We are the ones who can ask you, who can ask you for responsibility and all that, but we must by no means allow the MPs of Parliament to allow one Minister Lovro Kuščević to put so much pressure on independent bodies in the Republic of Croatia, it has been unprecedented so far. Let him move, let him move his paws [[Intruder: Thank you...]] from independent bodies. [[Invader:...respected colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142462	Next replica, dear colleague Joseph Shuker, Ivan Shuker, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142463	Thank you very much. Well, to be honest, I was a little surprised by your speech about law-making, it's exactly how the law is passed, who may be the Proposer, and that's where you went completely contrary to what the procedure is. You as interested can make your remarks and suggestions etc., however, you must ultimately know that the laws, I ask you to listen, to the laws, so elemental jurisdiction and to you I address, the laws are passed by this High House and you must understand this and therefore I have said that two goats on the hill, not saying, not paraphrasing to anyone, the laws are passed by this High House, and I also... I expect not only you, but also in every debate, from every independent body submitted by the report on the High House to say in his report where they meet and where the problems are in certain provisions of the law, and then it's an initiative to change the law, and when we conduct such a debate in the House of Commons and when they are such reports, believe me, there won't be any debates like this. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I wanted to tell you. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142464	...respected colleague Shuker. Answer, Your Honor. Novakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142465	I agree on the legislative procedure, however, you must also understand that we were members of the task force and that the Ministry of Administration absolutely does not have to accept our proposals, but if we all agree and write in the conclusion that we will be delivered to the law before it goes public, I think it is the minimum correctness that can be done without, therefore, it is a signed conclusion, without entering into whether or not they have accepted our remarks, but I think that we should respect the bodies, in the extreme line we are implementing that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142466	Thank you. Dear colleague Shuker, colleague Shuker, I would ask you, you had a debate, you had a replica, you got an answer and please don't enter the word again. Let's move on to the next line, dear colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, ma'am. Novakovic, it is difficult for me to understand that you from this pay phone can say that you are not in conflict of interest when it comes to deciding on Mrs. Novakovic's request. Dalic around your exception because until yesterday you were an HUP employee whose biggest financier was Agrokor owned, the majority owned by Ivica Todorovic and you here say dead cold that you are not in the interest and that you don't know the man, you said that, I can't imagine that it was said by the president of the commission, it's not up to you to decide whether or not, because if it were up to the official to decide, you wouldn't exist, you understand, it's on the body or the commission to decide or on an HS, on some body, you can't decide whether or not, whether or not you know someone you know or don't, that I couldn't understand that you as the chairman of the commission here, for this spoke HS dead statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142468	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. The answer to Mrs. Crescent's Novakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142469	Of course, my exemption will be decided by the body as competent, and it is not a commission, because the commission can't be about me as such, I said, yes, that I thought I was in conflict of interest to exclude, Mr. Todorovic I don't know, Agrokor is a financier the same as other large Croatian companies, Mr. Todorovic was not active in the association, he was the Honorary President of the Croatian Employers' Association, he was neither mine nor mine, nor my position at any time could depend on him. Why? Because the presidency is a volunteer function of the Croatian Association of Employers, my concrete any advancement or anything dependent solely on the CEO, possibly the Executive Board, honorary president like Gordan Dernje has nothing to do with my career or this. That's not up to me to decide. That's what the body will decide. However, the case of Martina Dalic and the principle has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142470	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Novakovic. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the chairman of the commission, Mrs Natashi Novakovic, and her associates. I would also like to thank the government's representative to State Secretary Mr. Darko Nekic. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We will continue tomorrow at 9:30 with agenda point Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session adjourned at 1920 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142471	Work report, just to read the point, Report on the Commission's work on the decision-making committee to decide on a conflict of interest for 2017. The applicant is the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. Come in, Comrade Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142472	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142473	Comrade Bauk, I'm sorry, but we've taken advantage of today's break, a colleague of Maras did it on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142474	I thank my colleague, Marasa, for being strictly sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-29-0.u142475	The debate is therefore closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 89 for, four abstentions, the conclusion that it was proposed by the constituency working body. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, today we mark HS Day, yesterday I announced, so we will be working until about 12.45, at 13 o'clock is the reception ceremony, and at 15 o'clock, then we will continue to work. So, congratulations now, but I'm going to make a special address at the 13 o'clock reception. Today we begin with the point: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the allocation of the status of associated member in the Organisation for Nuclear Research, second reading, P.Z. No. 639. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of Art. 207a. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that laws confirming international contracts under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us the respected Tomo Anticic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, please welcome the Secretary of State.
