ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u148230	Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues from HDZ and SDP. As a younger man, I thought you were incompetent and corrupt and that in that incompetence and corruption you were ruining the country and destroying my generation. But you're actually geniuses, ever since I entered Parliament, I can only conclude that the one who steals this much and still changes in power to this extent must be genius. Every law you bring is against the interests of the country and its citizens. And I wonder what's the difference between SDP and HDZ. And she's gone. These are all the same people with the same policies and common goal of getting rich and taking care of a few generations. Because of yours, I learned the meaning of the term kvisling. While at the state level there is no crime after crime, while billions of kunas are coming out of the budget at the local level of a rampant robbery of even greater proportions. There are 576 units of local self-government that must be calmed by party thieves from all parties and there are and with their number increases both the number and the billions that must be distributed. And between the various mayors, mayors, party colleagues, friends, godfathers, relatives, hordes of thieves trying to settle for life. And most of all, it's stolen through public procurement and competition. These jobs have been overpaid especially in the city of Zagreb. For 2 million kunas of 1 million kunas, it remains clean money for the contractors and that is after giving fees to those who set him up. What's the difference between this example I just gave and the bank robbery? Well, the difference is, this robbery is legal. Criminals have made laws so they can rob them unpunished and even a few honest judges can't convict these people. In the land of everyday affairs, people forget very quickly. The DORH doesn't do his job well and the judiciary doesn't exist. It's a week-to-week exchange of worse and more rude robberies. The living wall discovered a Pishkornica affair where the earring director Mladen Jozinovic paid himself millions of bonuses. The living wall has discovered that in Brodosplit Shipyard, the owner of Tomislav Debeljak is getting loans from HBOR and that these loans are being spent on purpose and of course all of this is reported to the DORH. We warned of an Immunological Institute that was deliberately destroyed. The President of the Living Wall discovered 33 irregular procedures and incorrect withdrawals of money from the office. Everything's also been reported to the DORH. We have discovered crime both irresponsiblely and arrogantly available to our money and in Croatia post office. In 4 years 200 million kunas were stolen there and 600 million were lost because of negligence and haughtiness. We first called Minister Krstičevic for the acquisition of fighter aircraft F-16 Barak and warned the public about the safe crime that will take place here and for some future benefit over the remont. As early as 4 years ago, we stood for the problem of solving 150 thousand tons of carcinogenic cost from the Sibenik TLM in Biljani Donji, so-called. Red Hill, it hasn't been settled yet, we're hoping they'll get rid of it now. We gave public and managerial contracts in Vukovar of 1.5 million kunas that HDZ directors received during the SDP rule. In early 2018 we were the first in Ulanik and warned about the future and inevitable bankruptcy of the Uljanika. Not only did we expose and warn but we also reported punishment. We've submitted a hundred criminal charges. For example. Kirina for the extraction of city money 17 million kunas of city money, the installation of the tender of Ivan Penava, Mayor of Vukovar a month in advance Live Wall knew who would win the contest, Damir Krstičević, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister for the acquisition of fighter aircraft, Milljan Brkić, Vice President of the Parliament for money laundering and tax or customs evasion, etc., etc. We've offered some solutions, but all our bill proposals have been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u148231	Thank you. Time's up. Dear MPs and MPs, I suggest that I form an art. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS are held in a united debate on: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the laws on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 659th and - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, second reading, P.Z. No. 661; Are we in agreement with such a proposal? Since we're all in agreement, I'm determining that we're going to have a united debate on these two points. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, and I would now ask the proposing representative to give an additional explanation. With us is the respected Predrag Štromar, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167587	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, today we have two amendments to the law, which concern the reform processes that we are conducting in the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning. These are the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. These two laws regulate the performance of professional work in the field of spatial planning and construction, as well as the way of structure, authority and membership in 4 professional chambers dealing with spatial planning and construction, which are chambers: Croatian Chamber of Architecture, Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineering and Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering. The basic amendment relates to the abolition of mandatory membership in construction and work leaders' chambers and the introduction of the possibility of voluntary entry into the chamber. In addition, in accordance with the requirement of the Services Directive, architects of urbanists are allowed to carry out spatial planning and in their own office, which so far was only possible in the joint office or legal person. It is prescribed that construction engineers and workers who are not members of the chamber should not be placed in a more unfavourable position than construction engineers and workers who are such and that the conduct otherwise considered discrimination. There are several key reasons for these changes. First, they are part of the continuous reform processes carried out by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning within the framework of two government economic policies, administrative discharge of professional services and the introduction of the euro as an official currency. Secondly, they result in an administrative discharge of €9.9 million per year, which is in line with the proposals from the Government of the Administrative Discharge Action Plan in 2019, which was adopted in January of this year. Third, they pave the way for free competition and growth in the productivity of the Croatian economy, which suggests measuring the regulation of professional services used by the EU Commission and the World Bank. In accordance with these measures, the regulation of compulsory membership in the construction chamber and the workers' leaders is an obstacle to the freedom of competition. At the same time, the World Bank estimates the potential for growth in the productivity of the Croatian economy to about 5% if a certain level of reduction in excessive regulation is implemented. Four, they return responsibility to contractors instead of transferring them to performers, or construction engineers, thereby protecting the profession. Amendments to these two laws will bring a few benefits. Construction engineers and workers are facilitated by access to the profession, as well as the European Economic Area market following which they come into a more favourable market situation, construction engineers and workers are made better by financial position, not paying annual membership and professional insurance which they do not need because only labour performers are responsible, the employer is relieved of paying chamber contributions, the professional position of construction engineers and workers remains the same, and they choose whether they want to enroll in the chamber and get free access to the repositories of Croatian norms, chambers receive incentives for active action and strengthening services to members to attract them, which contributes to the development of the profession itself. Between the first and second readings, we took into account all the objections and proposals that were reasoned and in line with the reform processes. I'll mention what changes were made between the two readings. Construction site engineers and workers who are not members of the chamber shall not be placed in a more unfavourable position than construction engineers and workers who are members of the chamber, and the conduct of the contrary shall constitute discrimination within the meaning of the law governing the prevention of discrimination. The architects of urbanists are allowed to carry out all spatial planning tasks in their own office. So far, urban architects have been able to do these jobs only if they were employed by a legal person or through a joint office of urban architects. Urban architects had to change their organisational form so they could maintain the ministry's consent to carry out spatial planning professional affairs, which they won't have to do now. Auditors from the European Economic Area are allowed to carry out cross-border operations in the Republic of Croatia, and, as requested by the Professional Qualifications Directive, which they could not so far, they had to ask for the ministry's consent. The audits shall be entered in the audit class set up within the registers of authorised construction engineers, since the audit is an upgrade of the profession of the authorised construction engineer. During the drafting of these proposals, the ministry met with strong resistance from professional chambers and several major objections. The first objection to the chamber, that persons performing the work of construction engineers and safety professionals, must be secured, and the European Commission itself has denied this in an official injury no. 2018/2285, and assessed that those experts do not belong to the security sector and that the provision of compulsory professional insurance for those persons is questionable. Another objection to the chamber, that solutions will lead to the emigration of our engineers, which makes no sense because mandatory membership does not mean professional title, nor right to work. The third objection to the chamber, that additional costs are imposed as the project management activity is extended to the project preparation stage, which is necessary in order to manage the investment rationally and efficiently from the very beginning, especially in the investment of public contracting authorities, and all of this in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The fourth objection to the chamber, that new burdens were imposed by prescribing the obligation of the manufacturer to ensure responsibility for the damage it could do to the investor or to other persons. This amount is not prescribed, but determined by the performer himself, and this obligation is necessary in order to equalise both domestic and foreign performers. The fifth objection is to delete the conditions for the performance of the works and activities of the management of the construction project. However, this is in line with the Public Procurement Act and applies only to public contracting authorities. I'd like to inform you that by amending the law of 2015. the obligation to join the building chambers and work leaders. One of the remarks of a county chamber of construction engineers was the following, I quote, we do not see the purpose of including construction engineers and chamber workers except in additional burdens of any poor budget of the same, we see the purpose of this only in filling the chamber budgets. At the Ministry of Construction, we feel that the chambers are reluctant to remain unaccounted for by mandatory contributions. However, if we want to strengthen the Croatian economy, liberalise the market and implement reforms that are crucial to improving the economy and profession, this quality is a well-founded legal solution. In the Republic of Croatia we talk about reforms all the time, but when we go into their implementation, we find resistance, that, that can't be the reason to give up. In the context of these two laws, we have taken care of all aspects of the change we introduce from security to tradition. I will note that the Republic of Croatia has as many as 300 regulated professions, and the EU average is 200. Therefore, if we want to be a competitive country, we must implement reforms. It is these amendments to the law that are part of the government's reform plan that was adopted last year. According to the global competitiveness report, the Republic of Croatia is 135th in place due to excessive market burden. The Croatian market is about 30% more regulated than the EU average. With all due respect to tradition, we must avoid the old habits, the press, the seals, the walks around the counters, and the change we are making in the ministry is exactly what we are doing. We'll either change or they'll skip us all. In this context, I recommend that the Croatian Parliament, all of you MPs and parliamentary representatives vote on these two final drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167588	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We have 14 replicas. First up, fellow Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167589	Dear colleagues, this law of course is not perfect. You must have received this letter from the Croatian Chamber of Architects with 16 points that oppose this law. I'll let you guys take a look at it later, if you don't have one. We primarily have 15 thousand engineers and members of the engineering chamber in Croatia, if they oppose this law what we have to say about it here, they're a profession, aren't they? Because here it's all theirs, when I read this letter, there's no respect for waist or safety. The works can be conducted by engineers with two years of work experience, the main works of some. When we add that to the Croatian State Bureau where it takes 30 months for a building permit, we don't have a country, we all know that, but you've been sitting here. In normal states, you have a geodetic device, satellite video, and it's all on the Internet, you get your PIN number, it's all there. We don't have it because the pilot projects, everything's digitized but nothing's solved. We haven't even solved the land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167590	Thank you. Here's your answer. You don't want to, okay? My colleague Maras, you're second.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167591	Thank you very much. Mr. Stromar, today we are hearing about this law but what the Croatian public is interested in and we are here representatives whose name you propose this bill since we see in the media that the prime minister thanked you for your cooperation, that there are no coefficients for teachers included in the budget. So I don't understand whether you're still the minister and whether you're going to be doing it tomorrow, whether you're going to be, whether you're going to support a budget for which you're not or are not resigning today. It's very important for this debate. And I think Croatian citizens expect you to give it as the first answer when you perform at the Croatian Parliament and certainly the MPs also expect it because it is obvious that the government will continue to drive on to the chips of another new, fresh-indicted mayor for what time and it only shows the situation of Croatia and the Croatian Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167592	Thank you. Let's move on, Comrade Vucelic, go ahead. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167593	Dear colleagues, we need control and responsibility of the profession now because there is a wave of import labour that someone in Turkey is already stamping out papers in Croatia and agencies are already open in Croatia. The Chinese are working on the Pelješki Bridge, the government is lifting the obligation that foreign construction and work leaders must meet the requirements of Croatian engineers as well. You don't listen to the profession, listen to the chamber, the members of the engineering chambers and what they think. Work on your own for the interests and interests of individuals at the expense of our people. Here's the minister, what's left of me time, you're really lying to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament here after this pay phone. I don't have enough time to say everything here, but as far as you said, I haven't heard it before. And it's not just this year, it's last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167594	We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167595	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you injured article 229 relating to the session's chairmanship, Mr. Stromar wanted to answer my question but you didn't give him a word to answer and say whether he resigned, whether he would support the budget tomorrow or not. So it is amazing that you do not allow your coalition partner to declare here to the Croatian public what he thinks of the Croatian government and his participation in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167596	I'm not even gonna say anything. Let's move on. Dear colleague Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167597	Dear Ministers, the chamber only has instruments to control and sanction engineers who are unconsciously working through insurance against professional responsibility to protect engineers and users. The question arises, therefore, whether this is a fruit of the interest of private insurance companies or the Agency for the Import of Workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167598	Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167599	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Vice President Štromar, you mentioned competitiveness, one of the main charts by which a man gets the impression of what competitiveness is and how competitive your country is is doing a business scale. The SDP government left Croatia in 40th place, and now we are at 51st, which is considered a great success of this government. But where we have achieved the worst results is the issue of building permits. So I ask you to tell us what you will do to speed up the time of obtaining a building permit, the cheap obtaining of a building permit so that not only investors who want to invest in Croatia but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can finally do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167600	Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167601	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, I am ultimately for every law that represents a step forward. I hope this law is a step forward, if it's not a step back. My question would be whether this law will introduce order into spatial planning and construction. I know the area of our coast, in fact, as much as we allow the devastation of our coast, as much as we allow the devastation of cities and municipalities where we order, there is no law. I hope that this law will be a real step forward but that it will be advanced towards everyone. When are we going to start punishing some state officials who are supposed to be a role model for citizens who work without rules, without regulations and without a building permit? When this Croatian state will be equal to everyone. This should be a rhetorical question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167602	Comrade Macar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167603	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Declaratively, we will all agree that we are in favour of administrative discharge, but when that happens then opinions are divided, criticisms, different attitudes. I am interested in the following, by 2015 we had no mandatory membership of construction engineers and chamber workers, after which membership obligation was introduced, we now propose voluntary membership. I wonder how this reflects on the quality of the work done by the engineers and builders? Did it ever go great from 2015 until now when it was mandatory, before that not or will there be any further problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167604	Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167605	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Secretary of State. Today, during free speech, the distinguished representative Mrak Taritash said that it was not necessary to bring amendments and additions to this law, because without specific checks, the parties will be able to come freely to our market, and I would like to say why, as well as in any way. If you look at the 2015 debate, you will see what the profession then said and about which amendments and amendments to the law. Another thing in this law is that it is pointed out that a foreign professional can begin to provide his services immediately after the statement and the delivery of complete documentation. So the statements aren't true that there won't be any checks. And something else we got, ate with these amendments and the additions of the laws change the conditions for the performer or they stay the same about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167606	Thank you. My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167607	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. My replica will be linked to the replica of my colleague, Macar, just about these professional chambers. It is precisely if you want to give rise to and on the importance of the profession that it is designed to be solved through chambers, if it is now membership voluntarily raises the question of why someone would even join and have an additional cost. Now we come to the possibility that ten or five of them can join themselves in their own associations, I believe that there will be one chaos between the chamber, associations and all other legal forms. Wouldn't it be more desirable if membership were mandatory, if the membership fees were minimal, but to see how all chambers, not only to finance this profession again, were to come to terms and, of course, their members? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167608	Now you're a colleague of Babic Vedran's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167609	Thank you. I honestly remained a little bit and found when this amendment to the law that abolished the obligation of membership in the chamber for part of construction engineers called reform and from a series of your arguments especially made me laugh next, and that this abolition of mandatory payment for part of the builders would mean the implementation of a strategy for the introduction of the euro. I'm really interested in what way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167610	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167611	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. I have one question, so since the media is already talking about this law and the edge of the chamber is most addressed to the Secretary of State, Mr. Uhlir, so not to you. So who is the author of this law, whether Mr. Uhlir or you personally, given that in one media, the fact that even after this law, there will be an application for conflict of interest. So I'm just quoting that diary that Mr. Uhlir has seven applications for conflict of interest, so is there any possibility that even after this law, what case does the eighth application for conflict of interest appear?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167612	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167613	Thank you very much. I am extremely pleased that Minister Stromar is with us here today on these two laws. In this way it gives importance to these laws, and I expect that in his address he will respond to all our replicas because he obviously decided not to answer individually. The main replica refers to the status of engineers, but my replica refers to another fact and to another law regarding spatial planning and spatial planning. Our spatial plans are a sublegal act, a directive you are calling on from 2006 says any country when it comes to services can define its spatial planning. This amendment of the law allows you to absolutely open your hands to all colleagues who are members of other EU members so that they can deal with spatial planning, so I expect that in the future we may also have spatial plans in the Polish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167614	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not exactly the height of political wisdom in the course of the parliamentary crisis to come to the Parliament and not answer the question of whether you are staying in the government. I guess you're staying in the government and if that government were good, we'd be proud to say we're staying, and that's the best government Croatia has. What do we have in the paper today? So Plenkovic breaks, we don't give in to HNS, HDZ to vote the budget, and you don't answer the question of your colleagues, Maras, are you staying in the government, and are you perhaps going to vote against this law as a representative the day after tomorrow? Here's Mrs. Macar's sitting then changing you in the Parliament, if the secretary writes you a solution to get out of the government, you'll come to her seat and possibly vote against the law that you yourself have proposed as a position, but we'll see how it happens. Therefore, Mr. Vice President, the minimum of political correctness, and wisdom would be to tell the public whether you'll be Prime Minister tomorrow, will you vote for the budget if you stay in government and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167616	And we're going to the last line, colleague Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167617	... Honored Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. [[Specially enabled.]] One of the topics, or one of the areas experienced by the creation of the Croatian state, is the most frequently changed and the most common legislation is the area of planning and construction. I'm interested in whether the process of issuing building permits, and we know that it's decentralised from state to county level, is there another degree of decentralisation being considered, would it be cities and municipalities or the sum of cities and municipalities? Because I think there's a narrow throat in that part and there's just an extra administration. And I think that the cadastre is one of the narrow throats and is thinking about who we have records and editing about fixing the situation in space and the permits in the catastro... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167618	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'd take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of IDS-PGS-RI MPs and respected colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167619	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister with State Secretary and Associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the IDS Club, the PGS will briefly refer to these two bill proposals. The proposals of both laws in the first reading, but even now in the final proposals, so to speak, have raised a lot of dust, arousing the public, arousing the professional public, which is certainly very worrying. The ministry has no hearing about the arguments of the profession, which clearly show that the bill's proposals will lead to the deterioration of the achieved standards of quality of construction. In one regulated state, the ministry respects the opinions of the profession but unfortunately not in Croatia where instead of getting a quality and enforceable law, we have received a legitimate revolt of professions. There is again healthy communication, there is a lack of dialogue and consultation with the professional public. As I have already said many times, and it is obviously the same on this example, we are stamping the laws by justifying the implementation of reforms under the pretext to meet EU requirements. Legal amendments to the law 4 years ago, construction engineers were statusally aligned with designers and supervisory engineers, which in practice proved to be a good solution because they were better positioned on the market, but also among fellow designers and supervisory engineers, as they were given a very professional and equal fit. By regulation of construction engineers or construction manager, the director of works in 2015 achieved the dignity of their profession and the deserved position on the site. Such proposed amendments, with the removal of rights acquired, also reduce the necessary conditions for access to these professions, calling into question the security of construction in relation to the current situation. So it's a very worrying fact, which is that, contrary to national interests, the profession of the building manager, i.e. without a reasonable reason, is derivated by the profession of the building manager. the head of the works that can have real consequences for the safety of construction. Unfortunately, compared to the 2015 legislative changes that have received a number of positive results for the construction profession and which have sought to strengthen the professional chamber system, the proposed legal solutions are now aimed at reducing the public authority of chambers and weakening the professional chamber system by introducing volunteering elements, leading to the mixing of two legal forms in the same chamber organisation and association. I remind you that the chambers carry out a number of tasks of the state administration that have been transferred to the chambers on the basis of public authority. It is obvious that construction engineers are placed in a subordinate position compared to their current status as authorised engineers and chamber members, while on the other hand all public investments are burdened by the legal obligation to contract project management with the project manager, which certainly increases the cost of the total amount of investment. The project leaders are certainly not a profession that has an impact on public health and safety, not a participant in construction, nor a regulated profession. It is therefore not necessary to define the activities of project management by law at all. It is a manager's role, and investors themselves need to assess whether they want to appoint a building manager or not. In fact, the construction process at the site of the building regulations is sufficiently controlled by the participants in the construction in accordance with the law. The proposed amendments to the law turn construction engineers into actually performers whose work is supervised by the employer and supervisory engineer, thus losing access to professional and legal counselling, protection of chambers, insurance against professional responsibility and access to Croatian norms. This means that they are placed in a subordinate position relative to the status that they currently have as authorised engineers and chamber members. In addition, contrary to the ministry's allegations, our economy will be less competitive on the external market, which issue eu certificates for its members on the basis of which they can work in other Member States. Now they will have to go individually through a complicated and expensive procedure of nostrifying their documents, which will mean new burdens on the economy. I'm asking one logical question now. Why change something that has proved to be good in practice? As one of the objectives of the proposed amendments, the Proposer points out the administrative dispensation in the performance of works in construction in such a way as to replace mandatory membership by optional enrolment in the chamber directory. This means he could do for all the professions and activities involved in the construction. This certainly cannot be the real reason for such a legislative solution, which has obviously been taken without considering the legal consequences of such a procedure in the area belonging to the security sector. We will agree that the rate of disbursement from the payment of membership fees of individuals of up to 1800 kn per year is very difficult to take as an excuse, especially because the direct effects and the measures for business on the market are almost minor and adverse consequences for the chamber system and the profession are enormous. The damage is even greater when we know that by paying membership each member gets a professional liability insurance policy, free access to norms, legal and professional assistance, free seminars, lectures. It is really worrying that the ministry has failed to explain the reasons for the proposed changes in both proposals. We can conclude that there are no valid arguments for the proposed changes, so it is evident that there are no meaningful changes. So we have changes against which all four chambers and architects, construction engineers, electrical engineering engineers and engineering engineers have joined together. A survey has also been conducted in which 79% of authorised engineers have made clear against the proposed changes to the law. Then, dissatisfaction was expressed by engineers in numerous individual letters, a petition was signed. Such a solution is opposed by investors. The Croatian Employers' Association and the Construction Union also provided support to the chamber. Even 19 companies and contractors, but that's not enough, because the ministry's resolution continues to persist in these changes that are objectively not a good solution. An objective question is being raised. Who is behind the proposed solutions, and what interest groups are favored by the Ministry of Construction? Given the reasoned warnings that come from the profession that this is about unquality legal solutions that represent a major step backwards for the profession itself and long-term dangerous risks to human safety and health, we in the IDS cannot support such legal solutions. We therefore propose that the proposed legislative proposals be withdrawn from the procedure until a harmonised solution to the ministry and professional clarity is reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167620	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167621	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. These two draft laws did not today on the parent board or on the first reading receive the necessary majority to accept the legislative proposals in a way that speaks of these proposals as coming from the parent ministry here on the agenda and in the debate. The message is extremely bad because, let's say, when someone thinks about the Ministry of Civil Engineering, then his first thought, of course how fast investors will get a building permit, as we think about health care, everyone thinks about the order of waiting, when it comes to reviewing, on therapy, it should mean core business for you to sort out the system of issuing building permits, you're constantly dealing with trivial things by damaging one group, changing the rules of the game over and over again, and no matter what, here, at the beginning of the year you've been x times since I don't know who you're all not alerted to change the Construction Act in terms of making more quality building permits not on a good path, you've rejected more than 80% of the remarks, which of course resulted in the Doing Business Board Croatia falling from 126 places to 150th place. It wouldn't be a big deal if it were the competition of 1,000, but the competition is out of 190 and that's what you're doing, by messing with the ministry, you've knocked down the ratings and the whole country, and you just have to be aware that you're not doing your job well, and you're asking for an excuse, which you're announcing that the year will be better results, we know that it's simply not because by passing the law, you've simply paralyzed the entire system of building permits, so it's such an unprepared release of the new law and forcing it at all costs to get into effect we have parts of the offices that haven't yet reached the end, it's been more than half a year, they're not able to issue permits. Not to say, among other things, that the place where the biggest economic activity is the City of Zagreb does not at all use your system e-Allocation and it simply speaks about your way of working, and also how much they respect what you do and how you can have the authority of the City of Zagreb, which has the greatest resources to simply not accept it. When we speak on the Doing Business scale where our country is located, I just have to point out that all the countries in the environment, I don't even want to list them in front of us, a lot, and as far as your areas are concerned, it would be much easier to list those who are unfortunately behind us, and not those who are ahead. By listening to a bunch of these arguments that are here and the minister listed me to justify the effort to deprive or to see building leaders, I will be correct, that means that they have no obligation to be members of the Chamber of Construction, tells the fact that you simply do not know the profession, that from the same rank you are able to throw out, remove the builder of the site next to the designer or supervisory engineer, saying that the contracts are signed with the company and such irrational things because with the company you can sign and design, and you know very well, simply throwing a bunch of arguments, one system that you recognize four years ago, now I don't know why you're doing the opposite. In the replica of the minister who did not respond to anyone's replica, the first thing I heard was the argument that the abolition of mandatory membership for construction leaders contributed to the implementation of the strategy for the introduction of the euro. Here I just can't do it, I can't just understand that fact because reviewing the strategy isn't, and that action isn't listed either. Furthermore, you pointed out that, you're referring to it as an exaggeration because someone was put in a chamber four years ago. What does that mean, is your attitude being removed from the chamber? When we talk about your political option, you were on the bumper of the chamber, the Chamber of Commerce. I remember that from our government. I don't know what's changed here, you've simply led yourself to the fact that even those who want to represent you simply ask you not to do it anymore, that you don't represent them. You've also come here now. So you have, in continuity you are at war with all chambers and I am convinced that this is simply not the right way because you can't be so sure of yourself that you are doing a good job when your feedback from the field is as bad as when you adopt a construction law related to building permits, and for this case that you would realistically and not have to be as cruel as you want to stress, but simply to your team would say even by raping the law you've simply brought to this so that your laws don't pass on to parent committees where you formally have a majority. I won't be longer, I'll let my colleague Grgić continue the second part of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167622	Thank you, colleague Babic. Here you go, colleague Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167623	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here comes our minister, who mentioned the figures of this action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy in 2019 and even defined the value of approximately how much this law will contribute to this discharge, but I am asking another question and this is a new burden that will indeed be the result of these two laws. In fact, the insurance policy of professional responsibility that members of the chamber receive under the membership fee they pay, the said insurance is in the interest of all the participants in the construction process, in the event of the termination of the chamber membership of insurance policies against professional liability for construction leaders or works, will be more expensive because they will have to be negotiated individually. What does that mean? Today it's 15,000 members of the chamber. They all have single security and a chamber for all of them, which means that far better conditions are what we're going to get. ... If we, the two of us, the three of us or the few of us are looking for that insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the building manager should be required to know Croatian standards related to the construction of materials. According to the price list of the Croatian Institute for Standards, access to standards for 5 users e.g. amounting to €25600 per year per user, chambers now have agreed collective access to the norms for their members who represent an average of 85 kuna. Look at the difference. And now if we mention the chamber, if we mention the members, will they be part of that chamber or not? We need to talk about a serious institution, a chamber that represents and represents the common interests of its members in front of state and other bodies. In fact, the chambers are not associations to attract voluntary membership, the chambers are legal persons performing part of the tasks transferred to them by the state administration in the form of public authority. In fact, the proposed law prohibits one category of engineers from having the status of authorised persons by membership in the chamber, which is discriminatory and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The responsibility of checking the professional and educational qualifications of engineers working on construction sites has been transferred to chambers, preventing the ability of an authorised builder or works manager to perform a potential for having a false diploma or under-work experience. We are asking how will supervisory engineers in the future control the credibility of the diploma and the expertise of the building manager? While the ministry has called for EU institutions in defence of the bill, it is important to know that they do not have the power to regulate or deregulated professions in certain Member States, so that the European Commission does not require the Republic of Croatia to deregulate the profession of an authorised head of construction or works, as the ministry states, since it is about professions directly affecting the safety and health of people and it is a matter of protecting the national public interests in which it decides only the Member States. Let's see our neighbors, let's see our Slovenians. It is interesting to note that the chamber construction system in neighbouring Slovenia is also the older EU member, fully in line with European legislation, while the Croatian model is unfounded to be incompatible with European laws and directives. According to the successful Slovenian model, the activity in the field of professional activities of authorised architects and engineers is regulated within the chamber for the architecture and space of Slovenia and the engineering chamber of Slovenia and the engineers who take the state exam have the right to perform all the tasks in the profession, meaning design, professional supervision, design supervision, construction management, management of works, design and study and project management. Also, according to the law there, all members have an obligation to contract a policy of professional responsibility insurance, so the same ones that the Croatian chamber provides to all its members or authorised engineers. Does this mean that Slovenians simply better protect their national interests through the protection of professions that fall under sector security because of the impact on human health and safety? Finally, I would like to list the letter or document of the President of the Croatian Chamber of Architects Željke Jurković, president of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering Željko Doric, president of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Civil Engineering Nina Dražin Lovrec and president of the Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering Zivko Radovic, who are asking that this law not be adopted. Now the final question is, if the whole profession stands against this law, why would we accept it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167624	I thank my colleague Grgic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Liposjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167625	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. We have a united discussion on the final law amending and supplementing the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction and the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. The purpose of the adoption of these laws, as we could hear in the opening section, is the administrative dispensation of professional business services, which is part of the ongoing economic policy implemented in accordance with the measures set out in the Administrative Dispensation Action Plan 2019. In addition, the measurement of administrative burdens for construction engineers and or workers, by applying the standard cost methodology, has shown a significant administrative discharge for around 5500 chamber members who would be required to replace the mandatory membership in the chamber by optional enrolment in the chamber directory. The total discharge would be around 10 million kuna a year. They will no longer have to exercise their right to work by enrolling in the register of chambers and by paying annual membership fees, but they will automatically exercise that right at the time when they meet the requirements laid down by law. Engineers of construction sites or workers according to the law governing construction, are not involved in the construction because they do not carry out these tasks professionally and economically independently and cannot therefore take responsibility for the performance of the contract. Since engineers of construction sites or workers like all other performers are responsible only to the employer but not to the investor, professional insurance is not needed and cannot be discussed in this context about the need to edit this profession as a regulated profession. By equating the rights to works of construction engineers or managers of works enrolled in the chamber and those not entered in the chamber, the professional name as well as its formal addition is unnecessary. Therefore, the need for further enforcement of the right to an professional name will cease, and this right will be exercised through the fulfilment of the law of the prescribed conditions by performing the work for the benefit of all construction engineers or workers who are being disbursed by this partial deregulation. The new legislative solutions also facilitates access to the profession of the European Economic Area market, making construction engineers and labour leaders more market-friendly. The professional position of these professions remains the same, the free choice decides by enrolling in the chamber and free access to the repositories of Croatian norms. It is worrying that according to the Croatian Bureau of Standards, the Croatian Standards repository uses only about 22% of the total chamber membership, so mainly designers and supervisory engineers. In addition to all of the above, the conditions for the contractors remain in order by law and the fulfilment of these conditions at the site is controlled by the supervisory engineer as it was arranged by 2015. The regulation of compulsory membership in the chamber for construction engineers or workers constitutes an obstacle to the freedom of competition. The Croatian market for professional services is at least 1/3 more regulated than the EU average. The World Bank estimates the potential for growth of the productivity of the Croatian economy to about 5% if a certain level of reduction of excessive regulation is carried out teaching the already implemented liberalisation measures. Also, the indicator of the restrictive nature of professions which is the development of the European Commission shows that the Republic of Croatia has at least 10% higher overall professional regulation than the EU average. In doing so, architects, construction engineers, lawyers, auditors, tax advisers, and accountants are viewed. The reason for the adoption of this law is also found in the fact that professional chambers are changing the framework of competence as well as public authority. Namely, all chambers are obliged to form a directory of construction engineers and a directory of engineering works and the Croatian Chamber of Architects is establishing and running a directory of landscape architects. In order to further comply with the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, the Croatian Chamber of Civil Engineering Engineers shall be empowered to establish and maintain audit classes within the directory of authorised engineers, as well as the records of foreign auditors who carry out temporary or occasional project control activities in the Republic of Croatia. This allows foreign professionals in the European Economic Area to carry out project control activities on a temporary or occasional basis. Following all the above, the HDZ Club will support these two legislative proposals, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167626	I'd like to thank my colleague, Liposchak. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Ana-Marie Petin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167627	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here today I will speak as a responsible person in one local self-government unit and in the role of investors since I am actively as other mayors and mayors participate in the construction process and I need to point out the good side of the proposed changes, but also some of the problems we face during the implementation of infrastructure projects financed by EU funds and are directly linked to the legislative framework precisely from the area of construction. First of all, I would refer to the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Space Planning. The objective of the amendments which seek to protect the public interests and interests of all participants in the construction process, and in particular the desire to further disband administrations and parafiscal givings in a way that changes public authority and competence by professional chambers. We at HSS as well as any economic and economic dispensation we welcome but unlike the current obligation to pay fees to the professional chambers, the contractor will be able to appoint for the performance of the construction works of the person as prescribed in Article 9 of the proposed amendments, which I also welcome as mayor, because I am also locally seeking to find models from our district in order to facilitate business for entrepreneurs and attract future investors to our area. However, what seems to me to us at HSS that the future for investors might be a problem is on the one hand prescribed a smaller professional preparation and years of experience for engineers who will lead the construction and, of course, there is a policy insurance issue of professional responsibility. The investor will have to check in such policy cases because although it is mandatory now only remains on the employer in which he will ensure the process of construction while for the authorised engineer of the chamber member it is understood that he is insured on the subject of how Article 31 so far says that the chamber assumes basic insurance from the professional responsibility of its members of the authorised architects, authorised architects of urbanists, authorised engineers and foreign authorised persons registered in the register of chambers that are obliged to pay remuneration for professional insurance. This is a major problem especially with the financial corrections prescribed by the EU where the contracting authority cannot protect itself in the event of a failure of the profession. The second Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction conditional upon changes in the powers and competences of professional chambers, but here I would refer to the new concept of the participants in the construction process and this is the project manager. On the one hand, the amendments to this law seek to disburse the economy financially and since 1.1 this year, we have been imposed on public contracting authorities new financial commitments for capital projects through the appointment of project manager, or now by negotiating project management from the planning phase to the realisation of infrastructure projects. Although it seems that a municipality or city like my Orahovica may not have infrastructure projects above certain thresholds of 10m 35 or 50 million kuna without VAT depending on the purpose, believe me that local self-government units are at the disposal of huge EU funding and are not impossible to realise funding, for example. construction of municipal infrastructure, roads or some public purposes above those thresholds. For example, a project of the town of Orahovica from the project Slavonia has been agreed and has works worth more than 35 million kuna without VAT and that this service would be an additional financial cost at the stage of implementation. This project has been planned for years through a feasibility study, an environmental impact study and financial analysis with state support and technical assistance because otherwise it would not have been approved for European funding. I must admit that we do not know who is issuing these licences for the project manager, as much as in Croatia at present is the availability of this profession, I suppose not great and of course the price depends on it. What is the order of size compared to investments compared to e.g. with a design or professional supervision service. When we talk about specific problems in the area of building for investors, of course, it's dating, the big problem with the construction permit. I would also like to welcome the effort to start the e-authority procedure through the e-conferencing established in April this year and to decommit the supply of unnecessary special conditions of construction and confirmation of public legal bodies. However, we have heard criticism these days that in only 40 countries in the world it is more difficult for an investor to obtain a building permit than in Croatia. It is frightening to do the business of the World Bank in the category of issuing a building permit according to whose scale Croatia is on 150th place which is a significantly worse result than 2 years ago when we were in 126th place. Although I hope these changes will help to improve this data in the future, I am not sure that digitising the main project and reducing its content will speed things up and cut our costs. The investor still has to order analogue form of documentation, all administrative procedures that are only within the authority of the designer and not the investor are certainly excellent for private investors by introducing an e-conferencing. But when an investor of the local self-government unit is again about our extra cost. Our practice so far is to get out of our own terms and confirmations, to submit requests and to run all administrations because public legal authorities are most often in our environment, we always have firsthand information if necessary supplements, we have a clear insight into the deadlines and enforcement of the design contract and now that the investor can no longer even submit the request we expect to collect design services that are not happy at all. Any commendation if the number of public bodies and confirmations in the process will be reduced and if the e-registration platform will submit huge amounts of data when loading digital projects because we are witnessing a frequent decline in systems of similar applications that we use in implementing projects such as Agronet and IMIS systems, so any praise if the declines of these systems are to be reduced as large amounts of data are introduced in digitalisation, the introduction of digital projects. With all these changes to the Construction Act, I will now return to the question from the very beginning, which is the responsibility of the designer when it comes to public procurement and EU funding. By implementing several infrastructure projects, we have come to a frightening conclusion, which is that we are bombarded with threats to prescribed financial corrections, including due to inadequate labour costs or technical specifications. As far as I know, the entry into force of the Construction Act, the coster is no longer an integral part of the documentation for the building permit, even moreover, that term is not used in our legislation or in sublaws. Today, the only obligation to write about the main project is to assess the cost of construction. As we also negotiate with the main projects projectors without which there is no investment, we are witnessing that we get everything and everything, and that they are in line with the Public Procurement Act and the EU Commission guidelines, through the instructions issued by SAFU, that we do not even speak. The coster was previously reviewed in the authorisation process, but now everything is left to us who are responsible for their quality or disadvantages. The other and the mayors and the mayors met with this problem, so my question, which of the underlaw of the Construction Act was arranged how is the cost-effective made? If there is a Regulation on mandatory content and equipment of construction projects, e.g. For the main project, I don't see any reason why there's no such rule on content and how to make a cost. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 contains only the basic allegations in 6 points of which the coster consists, but not a description of how to draw up in accordance with the EU Commission's guidelines. Therefore, according to the Public Procurement Act and the SAFU Guidelines on the Construction of Costers and the Finance Contract, only the beneficiary of EU funds, i.e. the investor as a contracting authority, is responsible. We are advised to clean up public procurement costs, but not in what way the city or municipality hires a project team in order to have employees of the profession of architecture, construction, electrical engineering and engineering because all of this contained a work coster had more serious construction. We pay the coster in the contract to interpolate the provision that the designer must make it according to the Public Procurement Act and the SAFU instructions and what happens. Already in the first paragraphs, it is clear that without correction, the coster is immediately receiving financial correction and the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. The document rarely has a hundred pages, certified by an authorised designer, and also to arrange for external experts to clear it, it is in the domain of counterfeiting the official ID. In addition, external procurement experts are contracting for the procurement process, not for a poorly-assembled coster. When we return the document to the designer with the comments on the basis of the contract, we get a correction, but then again, who guarantees that it is correct and someone needs to review it again. Local self-government units are not design houses, nor are SAFUs whose activity is to control public procurement documents, licensed experts in local self-government are mostly lawyers, and for this task it turns out that they should have completed four more universities. I am saying all of this to clarify that we cannot by contract oblige the projectors to meet and pay the costs to the investor, if later control of public procurement finds that the EU user is being determined by the financial correction due to the coster. And my question is, when will something be done to remove this burden from the EU user? For example, when will the Regulation on content and cost making be adopted, similar to what is prescribed for technical documentation or projects that would unite all, professional norms, public procurement requirements and the EU Commission? Until then, we'll be paying for the mistakes in a cost-effective that we don't have the capacity for, which we can't, and by law we can't correct and modify. It can only be the designer who prescribed the coster, it has nothing to do with it except the contract with the client. The guarantee that 10% of the amount of the cost contract available to us is negligible in relation to the financial correction measured in percentages of the investment, the price of the works, and everything else in the contract at the moment would be useless. So, in the end, we at HSS would like to say not to force these proposals to be amended by the law against which all our fellow MPs have spoken, but that the ministry is dealing with the real problems in the area of construction, which we are facing on the ground, and which are making it impossible for us to or are putting extra financial burdens on local self-government units so far, and for this very reason, we at HSS, our club will not support these proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167628	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Representatives Club, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Today, we are again discussing the amendments to certain laws to which the amendment is a profession to which it has given its judgment as unacceptable amendments. Whether it is true or not, I believe that the ministry has well recorded the situation, conducted all the necessary talks with the profession, coordinated this and that the changes proposed by us here in HS really relate to improving the legislation. I'm not an expert in that part of the debate, so I'm going to set myself up in a way and in the name of the club that we're going to accept the ministry's proposal by believing and expecting that all aspects of these amendments to the laws that are before us are well and thoroughly reflected. We often hear from people from the field, we hear from designers, of course, owners and companies who perform the work, we hear from fellow Petin just before, and people from local self-government who are therefore in an expansion investment process on the ground primarily funded by EU funds and are all dissatisfied. The kid took his film back there somewhere in 2008 when I had the opportunity to participate in a greenfield investment by an Italian investor then in the town of Križevci in the production plant, so not the commercial, production plant that he said then was the walking building permit in Croatia, then in the Križevci made several times faster than he would have done in Italy. Somehow today I get the impression that we've made all the additional changes that have been happening in principle somehow backwards that every time instead of simplifying and improving and speeding, we've actually taken a step back. I also got some tips from a projector's company, and people asked me to point out that and specifically say what problems are going on and what's going on. In fact, when we make amendments to the law here, then there is a whole series of activities that must be done by the resolution ministry so that this law can be implemented so that it can be implemented after that. On the last amendments to the Construction Act that we've passed under what I've been writing here, it hasn't happened. So there was no follow-up to that trend and it just blocked that system. I will really read a few of the hints that I received but I am also interested in getting a reply from the Ministry's representatives as to what trend construction permits are after the last amendments to the law and after the last adoption of the law was here in the Croatian Parliament. Did the number of building permits issued has accelerated, which is the average time of issue of the building permit, what happened? Because these are indicators that, at the very least, can give us an indication of whether we can trust what's being presented here, which we're told here is going to be like this, that kind of improvement if we get into a situation like this later. It is still waiting for the Regulation on the content and equipment of the main project although it is currently in force by the rule applicable to the previous law. Of course, he is contradictory of the existing law, so it cannot be applied. He says the geodetic project stopped being called a geodetic project, it's called a geodetic elaborate and there's no content and equipment of the labs, no one knows what to look like. The system of e-authority is not networked on all institutions, here is an example of the city of Zagreb because they are from here, there is software for themselves that does not work. The requirement to comply with the conditions shall be submitted in a way that provides for a paper request with the CD on which the project or the corresponding number of copies copied and as intended for all operations to be done electronically. Officials do not know how to use basic design software to read the draft because they are not educated. At present, there are a large number of projects just because officials do not know how to use the e-authority system and the designers claim that the reason they did not go through any training on the same thing today. I'm told by people in the profession who deal with the need first of all to resolve regulations, educate officers and adapt computer equipment and introduce the software needed for law enforcement. So my question is with what I said that we as a club will support these changes but really the question of the ministry are we ready and prepared after the Parliament adopts these amendments to the law and apply the same laws in practice and will there be improvement? And not that again after a while, with some new changes, we hear that we didn't go one step ahead but a step back and then we keep going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round. So if we do something then we have to do it from the beginning to the end right, we need to know where we want to go, what we're going to do, when we're going to do it and how and what are the improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167630	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. Next debate on behalf of GLAS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167631	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, or assistant minister. There are two laws ahead of us in the second reading. In the first reading, these two laws also caused quite a heated debate in this distinguished House and in the second reading, by the number of representatives who are discussing these laws, it is evident that it is good to discuss and that they have caused a number of disputes on the ground. When I acted as a minister at the Department of Civil Engineering, then there was a respected representative who was a minister before me and everything the ministry came with, he explained why it was against, why it wasn't good. And then I said, "I'm not gonna be like that one day when I'm a councilwoman." And then, unfortunately, you have to be very often and deny yourself for the simple reason I don't think that the laws are carved into stone, I think it's the obligation of every ministry to follow regulations to follow the law to talk to the ground and to change them in a way to be better for each and while we at the GLAS club share those laws that are professional and those laws that have certain political connotations. Those who are professional, every law that is better, we support it. For the simple reason that the upgrade has a result in the field. When there's no improvement, that's what to say. So you have to understand why someone's going to change the law. I have to admit, I don't see any single argument as to why these laws change. Not one single argument. In doing so, I must admit that Mr. Hrg took my tongue a little bit because he was discussing building permits and I'm going to tie one part of my debate to that because everything has a consequence on building permits. The e-building permit project is a good project. This project needs to be developed. To develop, you need to listen to what the field is saying and you need to see what the problems are. When preparing to amend the law so big, you need to talk to the designers, you need to talk to those who deal with building permits, for those who give special conditions and see what the problem is. Croatia is not Zagreb, by the way, Zagreb has never introduced an e-authority at all, but it has its own license that is not compatible with the e-authority at state level but allows are issued everywhere. Someone explain to me how he can betray, use for a real e-authorization project by someone who doesn't know about the computer? We have an EU report for 2017, 25% of employees are computer illiterate at EU level. There are those who need to give special conditions at all so that someone doesn't insult themselves in some community, city, he doesn't have anywhere to put a CD because he doesn't have a computer. These are facts, and when you develop such a project, you need to take care of it. Therefore, we should not listen to what we say. And you don't need to listen, but you need to see how someone's experiencing us from outside. When the government in which I was a minister ended our term, then we ended up on the Doing Business scale in 40th place. This estimated great effort was made at the level of building permits, now that this government ended in 51st place, we are, so it fell from 126 to 150th to building permits. How do they judge us? They judge us by the procedures we have, the number of days needed for issued building permits and money how much the building permit costs. In doing so, without blinking our eye in this House, we voted for the amendments to the law because we introduced two new procedures, dead cold. One of the new procedures that we have introduced is that the projectors have to get points about professional training again, that's 2015, and now we've reintroduced, and we have no problem here. It is another procedure that the electronic signature, that the request is handed to you by the designer, that the designer has an electronic signature and you give the building permit to the investor. And when they judge us, it counts as a new procedure. So, the way we're rated is very simple, let's take the procedure of a few countries, and we have to say that Mr. Uhlir knows well, he was also the deputy minister of my term, and then we did some of these laws together, and they know well how Croatia is assessed with building permits and they know well what they got, why we fell from 150, or why we fell from 126 to 150. When we introduced the email, then Serbia called us to listen to what we did, how we passed the laws, how we defined the procedures and now Serbia is among the 10, and we are 150, what happened here? So you have to follow, you have to see what's on the ground, and then the law, changes and additions to the law, should be the result of what the projectors tell you, as investors tell you, as the people who issue the permits tell you, there are about 2,000 bodies in Croatia that issue special conditions. At the local level it is a local plumbing, local sewerage, local HEP, local gas station, at the state level and all of them, they must all be trained to participate in the e-authority procedure. Just to understand what we're talking about, I'm going to go back to these changes and supplement these two laws. What was 2015? In 2015, we had the next situation. In order to be able to do the work, then the ministry had to give consent to the companies to satisfy, just to remind you, that they had the conditions to be able to do the work, to have a number of employees, to have certain equipment in machines, to have a number of things, and that was the only country, at EU level was Croatia, so we have a strong need to be reregulated in everything and not to apply it. So, we like to have as many laws as possible, as many regulations as possible, but then we wouldn't apply them. Then we said that consent was the cost, it was recession, it was the result of the recession, we harass the performers, we'll put all those involved in the execution that the members of the chamber were, and in this way we'll actually cover that part and cut off at that point the performers with that agreement being on the deadline, so they had to extend, but nobody controlled whether what they wrote in order to get consent on the ground was appropriate. We also introduced you, until then, that a member of the chamber had to, he actually had his own name and last name, but he had to work at a certain company and we said it was crazy, you're a member of the chamber, your knowledge and your name, and not what you're doing in some company and we said when you go and you're expecting one plug, so let's not be a stepmom to domestic designers, performers, control engineers, but help them because someone else from another EU Member State is going to be working with us, and then he's going to have to meet the criteria that apply to them and not the criteria that apply to us with the idea of collecting points, so if you don't collect points, you have to repeat what. And that big burden really was 2015. What I am in the explanation of the minister who is no longer with us but as a lot of parliamentary representatives went to listen to Mr. Plenkovic, he said one thing then, and I can totally agree with that, when you start introducing any reform, then they are basically all for, but if it is in their backyard, then it is, then they are against. It's only from what he said under these laws, I agree. In these laws, I have nothing against, even more, I think we should open up to the EU market. We think that when you open up to the EU market, and it can only be better, I think it can also please some competition, so that you, if you didn't want to be the first in the village anymore than you wanted to be on that big market competitive and if it were in these two amendments and the additions to the law, I would say, well done. We might have done this one way or another, but it's all good, but it's not these laws. These laws are a mess. What all the chamber engineers say about it, don't throw us a mess, we have a certain order in which we operate, but who's going to feel that mess? Let's be honest to the end. The engineers in the chambers will manage. Now everyone is looking for those EU permits to go to work outside and the chambers are printing it neatly because behind this issue is how they will get an EU permit to go outside because it is not defined until the end on the basis of the fact that they always have to define, together with this, individual procedures, and individual regulations. They'll manage. Someone who's gonna be coming, the performers are gonna be a little bit like this, so it's gonna be a little bit like that, so in one period we had, somewhere in 2014, when a foreign investor was coming here, and he asked how I was coming here to prove that I had everything I had, so we didn't know how to answer that. There'll be an answer. But you know who will have the burden? Investors. Everything will eventually fall on the investor's burden. If someone can explain to me that the option in which someone who is a member of the chamber and pays 125 kn per month for their membership has, among other things, a insurance policy at the amount of a million kuna each member of the chamber gets in and a proposal of that home by mail, which is the security for investors that if any damage is done they have something to charge from, so for 125 kn per month they have it, and now they will have to negotiate it all together. If anyone can explain to me how the savings were made here, I'll say, okay. I have to go back to what I asked the minister who decided not to answer the question or actually you know the minister when he comes here, I commend it every time, because well, we rarely have a situation for the ministers to come to us here. If the minister came here to calm down a little with respect to what was waiting for him outside, all the journalists who were actually asking the same question, whether the HNS was still in the coalition or not in the coalition or went to the prime minister to see what he had done so he might not have decided to answer our replicas, or perhaps he did not decide to answer the replicas because there were a terrible number of questions that hit the core so there were no answers. So, the EU and the EU directives must not and should not be an alibi for everything that we change in our legislation because it is wrong because we will stop believing in EU directives. The 2006 EU directive on services on the internal market said that the exceptions that anyone can prescribe relate to road transport, development or land use, spatial planning and building norms. When the law was passed in 2015, it was, not by chance, but deliberately decided that when it comes to spatial planning, it was used by this possibility of exception, to make spatial planning part of non-economic activity, so something that every country protects. Why? So, what can happen to us after this law we still don't have a state-owned spatial plan even though it's an obligation in the Law on the Spatial Regulation of a certain deadline, but it obviously wasn't a target of the ministry. Why wouldn't someone from Portugal come to us for a competition and work out a state-run spatial plan? Why should you or the mayors when you have to call a public tender for the development of a spatial plan not be contacted by a designer who works a spatial plan in Italy, where, for example, he may not even have to be an architect, he doesn't even have to have an education, he doesn't have to have a professional exam, everything we have but he is subject to the rules of his country, and the spatial plan for your municipality, for your city is a sublegal act. He has the power of a sublegal act. So you'll have more, you'll have to hire someone to explain to him what the spatial plan means, which means our tradition of spatial planning, I really think the market should open. I think that the market should be opened for everyone because that is how you encourage both domestic competition and people who are better at doing better, but there are some things that need to be closed to the market, more so that other countries that are EU members are using, those other members that are EU members are counting on it. Why don't we lead, I wouldn't know that. I didn't mean to talk about everything my predecessors said because the chambers worked hard and delivered all the parliamentary deputies an analysis. We at the Voice Club won't support this, these just aren't good bill proposals. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167632	Thank you, colleagues. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167633	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll, as someone who's not from this profession try to do the most plastic, prozacically say what the word is. Even though we've heard a lot of debates here now that's been going on for a long time, but a little bit of it is actually kind of like a cat around the porridge playing around, mentions everything and everything but what's most important is somehow avoided saying. Why do you avoid saying, because very clearly these are abolished by force, compulsory imposition, point. So we listen all the time to how many parafiscals we have, etc., some are 20 kunas, some are 50, some are 100, but when it's a nice sum, and then put it together on an annual level, we get to some billion. And each individual may not be crucial. You know, extra security 80 kuna, so it's not gonna end now, now it's gonna be something to somebody, you know, it's only 80 kuna, there's so much more. What are we getting here? Something we must put as voluntary. Is someone defending someone to join? Is someone trying to stop someone from paying for it? So why? If that's so good, nothing will change. Or did I get something wrong here? We have to make someone feel good, is that the purpose of liberal politics or don't know what? That's the point of maybe some socialist, communist, way of thinking from before, if it's not mandatory. So we're gonna make someone feel good, please be careful. So who's forcing yours here to pay extra health insurance? Tell me, who was forced here? Who did the state make pay for that? No one. Who's paying him? 99% of the people, why? Because they saw for themselves that they had benefits. And now we're going to talk here that we're jeopardizing something. The position on the doing business scale because probably the very announcement of this law has brought us down, please be careful, we're discharging something, parafiscal intrusions, it went to first reading announcements, and now it's collapsing. Then you know how it could have been broken down. And what Mrs. McNally said. Mrak-Taritash did not mention what was estimated, opinions from architectural offices and professional chambers are also assessed. And they give their opinion when someone calls them from the World Bank when they're doing a business chart so maybe they said they see it's in an announcement, it's going to be much worse, so maybe that's why it's not good. I ask you once again, in 2015, this was introduced, what was it until 2015, how much worse was the situation? How much did our building suffer for that? Or rather, how fantastic it all became from 2015 to 2019. That's where they talk about the issue of protection to protect their professional responsibilities. So first of all, construction is not a personal service of one physical obligation, construction engineers or contractors, but a performer who is the only responsible investor for his mistakes, not personally. And then we talk like if we move away again I say mandatory chamber all those leaders are never going to pay for it again. Why? I guess because it's not mandatory otherwise, I don't know, I don't understand, it's great when it's mandatory, but when it's not that great. Is it like they're gonna have a more expensive insurance policy then? Well, my people, if they calculate it plus, minus, in chamber 1,500, without chamber 2.5 thousand. Membership in the chamber something, plus, minus, see it pays me to be, I'll be, plus minus, look, I'm losing 500 kuna, then I probably won't be unless there's something else that gets for that 500 kuna difference. And all this talk's over and all this chatter today. I don't just know what caused it, where I heard it, and I tried to make it clear, I absolutely don't understand it. We have 5500 construction engineers or construction engineers who are directly affected by this, 5500. They pay something, colleagues here say cancel mandatory HGK but leave it mandatory for construction engineers, logic me fantastic, one Czech, the other roof. Watch the roof shut down and leave the room. I don't think so. And so these Czech hundreds and hundreds. When we talk about these hundreds and hundreds, we have 300 regulated professions and the EU average is 200, and that is this directive that someone should not listen to. And what does that have to do with... So it's important that we reduce the burden on the economy such as some reforms, structural changes and then we go to work, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it, don't touch it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then when the state starts to deprive itself of their roles and obligations to make everything liberal and then suddenly it's wrong. There are probably also here who would think that we should continue to stay the monopoly of the Centre for Vehicles Croatia but he is just as great as a private person to work... State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] God forbid someone else. Because if we did, we'd probably just jump out there like this. I don't know except for some interests, I don't know who they are, I haven't heard a single argument except for interesting ones that I can assume or not that it's about someone else's interest, I don't think about my own, it's illegal don't give God, I won't say that, but in the interests of others that are abolishing. Oh, come on, imagine. So the other thing is what's good about first reading. So first of all, the architects of urbanists are allowed to perform themselves in the affairs of spatial planning in their own office, so they don't have to be in a legal person or some joint office, they are more, so now the urbanist can do it in an independent office. And what is very good and very important, and I would like to commend it in accordance with the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination that no one can be brought into an unfair position under the law because he is or is not a member of the Chamber. To keep them clean. And that's good. And I think you should absolutely, absolutely say it. Furthermore, I really won't, I can say one more, two things that are changing in this law, so literally the most complicated, the prosalytic suspension of some obligation, membership in some chamber that remains, that can still do anything, that people can still pay off, and that's just saying it's no longer an obligation. And here's the drama. Here's the drama. Imagine, some interests are being taken off probably. As regards also the recognition of professional qualifications, it is generally possible to carry out cross-border project control operations in the Republic of Croatia. So absolutely I don't see anything that would be so controversial as to tell me now that our country is going to fail, it's going to be more insecure building, someone's going to have to pay, etc., etc. No, no... employers who pay for it will have more money to pay their employees. We'll be discharging less. And that's what he sees with a discharge of $1,800 a year, so that's not something. Well, I don't know what it is when you have 30 things like that, so 30 times 1800, and then another 20 times 5,000, so I don't know what's wrong with it, so let's even get the VAT out of it, and pay all the contributions and everything and nobody. I don't know that logic. Someone must really explain it to me. Is it a rule that whenever any such thing goes wrong, there's a problem, there's talk of everything and everything, and the core stays the same. People will have to pay less or we'll go on market grounds to boost competition, where people see that something is right. And I'll tell you, for example, the Netherlands, they have fantasticly arranged it, they have associations to protect consumers who count millions of members of millions, voluntary and why someone would pay now about 200, 300, 350 euros how much monthly or 100 kuna membership of such a association. You know why? So when any dispute is found they legally represent, they give opinions, write complaints for you, in court and represent you if they estimate that your request is justified, you have protection. And 3 and I don't know how many millions of people in that consumer protection association are willing to pay for something, private, business non-essential, which is why people see that they have benefit. No, with us, no, no, it has to be mandatory otherwise you don't know how to take care of yourself, you don't know what your benefits are. Well, it's a liberal policy, though, I can't understand it, I can't understand some of them being led like that, it's kind of weird to me, but again, we're going in what's not endangering anyone else and it's not necessary and we're going to let people have the right choice, why don't we if they find them? Let's make these chambers really work for those members to see that they earn their profits or pay their costs in a price difference and in what they provide is really 5,000 insurance policies are far cheaper than 5000 per cent. Then let them make them feel it too, and they can finance something for themselves. And not that they don't know what they're going to do with the money, I don't know how many tens or how many millions they have at the end of the year on the bill, and I can't even spend it so far as we've come. In conclusion, I think this is just a small start, it's really not a big deal, but if we took 300 of those... so all the parafiscal loads that we have, that everybody goes to pick up and grab each other's hair, but when we take each and every one of them, it's nothing. If we do, we can really start to create a more competitive society and do what we do, let people work and breathe and reduce the role of the state in any business on the market and all that. We know what a regulatory obligation is, and let's let people breathe, and it's only when they give in to the taste of all this. So there's no more stamps, stamps, counters, walks, missing one paper, tags, over there, so let's go to what we started with the e-authorizations. He won't do it overnight, he won't do it without resistance, he won't do it all we've done in education doesn't go that easily and that's of course. Someone's been working for 30, 50 years or in one way it's hard to change, but hear some reasons that have absolutely nothing to do with it, I think it's really just a matter of some political positioning, that's probably because HNS is proposing it, so then we can't support something that HNS is doing right now because they're big bad guys in society and it's gonna look like we're supporting them. That's all I can understand from all the remarks we've heard, is this coming as an opposition party I believe all those opposition would say that, yeah, great, great. Of course we should all be out of the loop and it's a matter of difference the public needs to know why someone's against, why someone's in favor. And what's important is that in the end it's important that citizens have the benefit, and these bickerings don't mean anything good about it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167634	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Young Respected Fellows Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167635	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry. I think that before this second reading we all got this memo that they sent to the chambers, the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, the Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering, where they are through a series of points that they have cited contesting this proposal which was addressed by the Government that we should vote on. Finally, it came down to the question of what memberships in the chamber and this debate is whether someone better engineer if he is a member, if not, and I believe that despite what we can discuss here today, the best question will be said by those who are members of the chamber and whether they are satisfied with the services of the chamber, whether it provides them with better quality work, whether they feel protected. But somehow we have another argument here, and that's an argument that membership in the chamber costs. And I'm afraid that we have then an unconsistent policy of this government where the government should decide if they go with a proposal like this, are we then abolishing mandatory membership in all chambers? We want to discuss the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of crafts and various professional chambers, or is this just one attempt that, looking at maybe HDZ makes less damage, and then okay HNS suggested it through his ministry? But if that's the way we're going to cut all the administrative obligations that people have, then let's put it strategically into the plan. Let the government reach a conclusion, let's abolish all mandatory memberships, all those good chambers that provide well-being to their members will have support for their members and they will continue to work. I can't comment from this position on whether someone is a better builder if they're in a chamber or not because it's very demanding to discuss it politically because we all especially those who have been in a position to order the works of certain companies where people who run it come to you, you rely on them, in their knowledge, communicate with them, try to make the best of your project and really those people didn't deserve to have anyone politically talk about them especially about whether their qualifications are related to membership in a particular chamber. But here there's going to be a lot of things said in this direction that we should talk about an individual who does his job and on the other hand, politics is going to be better if, here now if he's not in the chamber and on the other hand we see that there are a number of other chambers. Is that how we might talk about doctors? What, you should go out then today we have this proposal, for the next week you should probably send someone a proposal, don't doctors be the same in the chambers. So you should tell the workers don't be in the unions because there's no need for you to be there, you can be alone, but then there are questions that this professional association is going to fight for because if we only change as a policy, we have proposals and we make decisions on the laws to which they apply, who's going to send this memo? What neither of us at the club got any opinion on whether this membership fee was suitable for that service. We've heard a lot about memberships in an economic chamber where companies claim it's a lot for what they get, not to see the benefits they get from, while others say again we benefit from it. And I think we've got one debate here, whichever way we approach it, we're not correct. Neither the proposal is correct because it is very partial, very in one sense, I understand what administrative discharge is, and I know that it is one of the reform measures, but then it should be correct, so say everything, applies to everything and not just one single proposal that we are going to discuss here now, because if this is a message to the rulings, if you propose for one chamber, then expect that all dissatisfied members of any other chamber will address you tomorrow or when this law is passed and we want the same right, we want the same proposal from the same government. The same prime minister should make such decisions with his government members and why you did not send them in the package. Send and then let's do this step, stand behind it, this is actually just one try that has its own and the good sides, we saw from a fellow HNS, they've brought out what I support in some way, any burden can be something that frustrations people who do and think they're simply not being supported, but on the other hand, I would also like to hear what the advantages of being in the chamber, what they care about, is that only insurance or contribution to their work to professional education, organization, to discussing proposals that refer to such political discussions and decision-making. So here I have to say that I only see a government that doesn't have a strategy, there's no direction and this kind of throwing individual bones can bring in a riot that won't solve key problems or administratively relieve key segments of society, but we'll just maybe communicate, here's where we found maybe one pigeon on the branch and eventually all around us is the same unchanged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167636	Thank you, fellow Panenic. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please. Excuse me, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167637	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats, for asking for a break to consult on further discussion of these two proposed laws, because here we are now more confused by who is right, the promoter or the profession because we see that most of the clubs have supported the letter that we have all received from the representatives of the chamber of architects, construction engineers, engineers, electric engineers. So the whole entire profession has asked us to be against these two laws and the proposer doesn't give up on it even though it's proposed on behalf of the HSS Club to withdraw these two proposed laws because it's obvious that they didn't agree with the field because usually when the law is being prepared, the profession is being consulted. Obviously, the profession is against, and then the question is who wrote this bill especially when it is seen from the presentation of clubs that the system is being introduced a mess because if it is not warning information that we have fallen on the list of acceptability for investors and investment in terms of issuing building permits, that this procedure is difficult and slowed down, and that most of the professions against the fact that we continue to agree on this process and we have positive examples from Slovenia and some other European countries where this is in a similar way arranged as in Croatia, we do not see what the change in the administrative discharge is, here we are from HSS, but if the profession says it will not contribute, if that is the financial discharge they are willing to pay, I do not see why the bill promoter insists on it, obviously there is some kind of cohesion, so we have to further discuss it and we see that the biggest field is precisely on local and regional self-government units, on investors, because they will have additional costs and the risks of these laws are required.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167638	Thank you. There's no one else. I'm setting a break until 12:30. MEETING IN 12.18 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. A respected colleague, Sasa Djujic, applied for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I will begin my debate in one way that what I want to point out is that last week it was announced that Croatia jumped seven places on the Doing Business ranking. And this information was given in a slurry at Prime Minister Plenkovic's cabinet session. On several occasions Minister Horvat spoke in public about how much easier it is now to start a job in Croatia than a year ago, but none of them pointed out that the main objections to this report are precisely saying that what is holding back the launch of the business in Croatia is still the slowness of issuing building permits and administrations and red tape that is happening in the business. The same information that Minister Horvat and Prime Minister Plenkovic failed to point out is that with that jump for seven places today, we are 51st of 190 countries in the world, but that we are in the place where we were two years ago, and still 11 places below where Croatia was in 2015, a year before HDZ took power in Croatia. Also, when it comes to this, it is very important to point out that on the issue of building permits on the same scale, Croatia is now the 150th country of 190 on the list. And two years ago before Minister Štromar became minister and took over this resort, Croatia was 127th in place. So since Minister Štromar and HNS have taken over this resort, for the past two years, Croatia has at its speed, the ease of issuing construction permits and the ease of setting up and starting work in Croatia is just backward and stagnating and it is important to highlight. It is important to point out that we have not made any success in this seven-place jump but have returned to a place since two years ago, and we are still 11 places behind where we were in 2015, but unlike 2015 today, both Serbia-Montenegro and Macedonia and Romania and Bulgaria, countries that were far ahead of us two years ago. Today, you are representing in the Assembly a law which, in your words, should remove these administrative obstacles which should be cost-effective and which should, as it should, solve these problems, and Croatia should now make it much easier to issue building permits with these changes, which should make it easier to start business in Croatia, etc. But against these suggestions of yours, the whole profession has rebelled. So now I'm not going to say here again what my colleagues before me were saying on behalf of the clubs, we all got letters, warning professions. So by what the waist says, you're just going to do this even more backwards and you're not going to solve this problem at all. And why am I saying all this now? I am speaking because, obviously, the activities of the ministry are, or not, under the leadership of Ministers Štromar and HNS, Croatia is only turning back on this issue. And here we now have exact figures and clear indicators, and perhaps in that spirit it would be good for HNS and Minister Shtromar to leave the government. Here's what I'm appealing, maybe then Croatia on the Doing Business scale would have jumped at least to get back to where we were two years ago because what you're proposing when I see what people are saying, I think you're only doing worse than we have today. And that's why I'm appealing to you to listen to the profession, listen to what people say, listen to your opposition colleagues, and it might still be best if we gave up the amendments to these two laws and withdraw these two points. That's all I'm saying right now, I'm not repeating what's been said before me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167641	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167642	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, I wanted to look back on your comment on the Doing Business Board. It is unlikely that HDZ boasts and the HDZ government boasts that they have progressed for a number of places on that scale, and basically when you look at the comparison 4 years ago that we were a dozen places better, it means 40th, 41st place. At this point, it's still much worse than it was back then. So it is important to monitor where we were at some point and in some way that it led to us falling twenty places when HDZ took responsibility for Croatia. And on the other hand, what you said, all our fellow citizens know, get a building permit in the Republic of Croatia, figure out the possibility of building something and doing it is a nightmare. So, on this side, allow people to start working and building and investing as soon as possible one of the key moves that every government should introduce. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167643	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167644	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, that's why I mentioned this story with the Doing Business Board because I couldn't believe that, with which ease and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Horvat praised that we have now jumped 7th place and we are on 51st place, in the same place as we were in 2017, and a year before that they didn't say we fell 7th place, and in 2015, I haven't even mentioned, when we were 40th in the world for the ease of running business, and now we've been with this 51st jump since HDZ came to power. They're leading the policy two steps forward, four steps back and, and that's why I thought it was really important to highlight it. And what you said yourself, our people who need to get a building permit, they don't even need a Doing business chart, they see every day in practice how difficult it is, how complicated it is, and how complex it is and how complex it is, and they see that this law won't change it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167645	Thank you. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167646	Thank you, Vice President HS. In the case of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, the work on design, construction, management and the business of examining them shall be arranged. Furthermore, answers are also defined for the purpose of the profession’s task, as well as the passing of expert tests on improvement, spatial planning and construction. This law seeks to relieve professional services where their membership would be replaced by an optional registration code in the chamber. It has the task to administratively relieve engineers and construction workers because they no longer need to be members of the chamber, and they can exercise their rights once they have fulfilled the Law on prescribed conditions. When it comes to the construction and signature of the contract itself, they exclude them from the construction site as leaders, as participants for economic matters, and therefore cannot assume responsibility for the performance of the contract and for their jobs exclusively correspond to the employer. This law equalises the rights to conduct operations regardless of whether entered or not in the chamber register, it is important that they meet the legislation for the performance of professional activities. Dispersion facilitates access to professions and services, even outside where they come to the market provision of services, which so far has not been possible. However, this solution facilitates access to professions and markets in the wider economic area, with a greater possibility of a financial position. What we must take into account is the quality of the works, as the basic prerequisite of this law, and the improvement of the knowledge of the work of those persons who have affinity for it. In order to monitor the development of the construction profession and the improvement of skills, it is necessary to enable the availability of education for beginners in the form of professional training that suits them. All of this can be applied to the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Engineers in spatial planning and arrangement where the basic structure is arranged through the powers that candidates should have to enter the chamber and for those who do not want it. As far as this is concerned, it means that performing the tasks of engineers and construction heads no longer has the authority, allowing them to use their rights according to the applicable legal provisions in providing their professional planning and construction services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167647	Thank you. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167648	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, I would refer to the proposed law and a little bit of an analysis of certain things, and here, during today's debate, someone, several main topics covered by the debate, almost all participants. So, it's mentioned as a key dispensation of the economy or people who want to free themselves from mandatory chamber membership for building leaders or works, secondly, that it will help us to lower certain criteria for getting a job and behaving the job of a construction manager or work manager to improve the investment environment or increase the ability of the investor and facilitate the business and third thing that I think may be the key to getting the job and then the minister has escaped, is essentially to see which one, I would say from which position the minister and party he proposes, is pushing this law in the Croatian government and HS performance, meaning that at this point it is very likely, almost certainly that the HNS has left the coalition, no one here is denying it, here I call, there are members of the HNS here in the assembly, the minister has been deaf and has not, and has not qualified to give this fundamentally, the basic answer to the need, but to all of which I can be heard the majority of the citizens, and I think that they are in the answer to the opinion of the vote, and that they have been able to the opinion of the board. So, we are here in a very confusing situation which is not strange for the Croatian government and Mr Plenkovic because it is one rule that unfortunately behaves last, lastly, I would say, even a few years since he introduced the rules that Croatian citizens no longer have a government that presents them in the way that it was in the elections, rather than getting support from the people who got the votes exactly the opposite, that they are voting against HDZ and now we see that the more you have the indictments in Croatian courts, the more important you are a partner, so with the new indictment of the mayor of the city of Zagreb was classified as the most important partners of Prime Minister Plenkovic, it will probably be the last and the one who will most loudly defend HDZ's stay in power, given that he should return to counter-service in the city assembly for Zagreb and GUP. The second thing, what I would say here, is that I have a particular problem with the party and the minister who is a member of the party who has explicitly opposed the abolition of the chamber's contribution to the HGK. I would like to meet the Croatian public here that, as Minister of Entrepreneurship in the Croatian Government, I have passed all the procedures in the Croatian Government and, at the time of the adoption of the proposal of the HGK law, which would contribute to that, i.e. to abolishing the mandatory contribution of the HGK, just as then the partner in the Government opposed Mr Vrdoljak, who protected the HDZ branch of HGK and allowed them to continue to take money from entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia without providing almost anything in return. So now we see that the Minister of the HNS quota Mr. Shtromar and Mr. Uhlir here defend the law and say that it will lead to certain savings, that entrepreneurs will benefit from it. After all, when they could show that both Vrdoljak and Štromar and all others of the CNS in the coalition government in which I was sitting have brought down the law on amendments to the HGK Act, that is, the new HGK law that would allow entrepreneurs not to pay contributions. And what's worse after the election is Mr. Vrdoljak's assistant gone to vice president of the HGK. This only shows you how intertwined this collock of interest about the HNS and how the HNS is placed in certain situations. So I don't believe anything here at all in any good sense to relieve entrepreneurs because the HNS could then give support and today the HGK would not have mandatory membership and today HDZ's Burilovic would not sit there as president who takes money to entrepreneurs and doesn't return almost anything. So on this side, people need to know how each party or individual or minister behaves at times when he proposes something and whether his intentions are true or not when he proposes it. As for doing business, we all know all about it, so we all know that Croatia is still 10 places less placed than in 2015 when de facto, at the end of 2015, i.e. in 2016 when HDZ took responsibility for Croatia. And unfortunately we sank 20 and some places, I hope that we will return and I think that one of the biggest problems is right here in the investment building sphere because today we get a building permit in the Republic takes too long, it's too much of a lot of time for certain stakeholders in this process to complain just to slow down certain investments. It is all expensive to detimize some people from investing in Croatia and it is something they should change as soon as possible in a way that is more efficient and faster. I am not sure that the right choice is this time that Minister Štromar has decided to go because I believe it is justified to object to the works of chambers and professions which say that by reducing the standards for persons who are supervisors for the heads of construction and works, or those who coordinate the works, we will not contribute to this by reducing both qualifications and years of experience. It may help to reduce the number of papers and administrations that one must fulfill and shorten the procedures and rush and make hasty procedures, which must be done by public administrations or those who provide solutions, that may help but this to be less demanding, I would say, less demanding competences and skills that should have and the experience that people who are in charge of this job should have, I am sure that they will not contribute to the fact that they will in some way be better and better done these jobs and faster the main object of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen and those who want to invest in Croatia. So this is how I would say the amount of objection to very small amendments to the de facto law is very rarely seen although believe me I don't agree with the argumentation of the chamber which usually when the chamber's contribution is abolished is called to the centuries-long traditions of chamber organisation in Croatia and then they still say that everyone wants to remain members of the chamber. They should not complain then if out of 5 and a few thousand of their members half wants to stay in the chamber, they will very likely and then there will be even more if these declared they should not have a problem with abolishing mandatory membership in the chamber. So I am absolutely on the side of the liberalisation of chamber organisations in the Republic of Croatia and I am for optional membership in all chambers so that it is understood that I am not the supporter to remain a mandatory membership but I don't think it's even a subject that should waste too much time today but should spend the most time on whether it will speed up certain procedures and whether it will ensure more quality construction in the Republic, I don't think it will and therefore can't be for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167649	I thank my colleague Maras. We have several replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167650	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you mentioned that these changes will not speed up the issue of construction permits in Croatia. I agree with you, the worst thing is that this abolishing of the chamber's contribution to essentially lowering and quality itself will not reduce the administration and the necessary paperwork and procedures and everything that a person who wants to build a permit needs to do but I don't think they're going to move millimeters with this. And in fact, investors still have the impression in particular that we are not an investment good environment precisely because of this administration, and unfortunately with these changes it has not been resolved and I think Minister Štromar does not know how to solve it because if he knew how to handle it then Croatia would not fall by 20 and some places by the ease of issuing construction permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167651	Answer, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167652	Thank you very much. I mean, this is one proposal, concrete. So today when you ask for and get a building permit, your neighbors can complain to you within 15 days about it, based on any basis, whether you're right or wrong, so someone can drag you away for a year whether he's right or right. Perhaps one solution would be that if an unwarranted person complains, gets a certain sanction, that he can't take someone a year of life, a job, anything just because he's not fit to have something built on his neighbor's plot. So, let's say, that would make it possible because today, I guarantee you that we have at least 50% of the complaints that are unfounded just to make it harder for someone or to make it harder for them to do something. On the other hand, this is the way to think, and this is how procedures should be accelerated, not with the profession to reduce the necessary qualifications in order to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167653	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167654	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Maras. So your position that membership in chambers is optional, that is, absolutely clear, and he hasn't changed in all these years and we from the materials that we've got equally stands out that a lot of the chamber members said we'll still remain members of the chamber. And the reason why the law was changing is the administrative discharge, and now there's nothing clear to me at all. So we're doing the law. The ministry went into conflict with all the chambers, everyone said we wanted to stay, these will remain, and that effect that the law wanted to achieve, it wasn't achieved, except that the ministry got into a fight with all the chambers, that's the result of all of this and what we really have doubts about, why anyone was doing anything. It's like that, for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167655	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167656	Thank you very much. Yes, there will certainly be none, or there will be some, but there will be no such savings as they presented, but even more bizarrely, this argument is that the abolition of mandatory chamber membership for construction leaders is one of the measures outlined in the implementation of the euro-introduction strategy. I mean, what would you say? What does the introduction of the euro have to do with whether we will have mandatory or voluntary membership? Nothing. I mean, it's a matter of logic, you might explain what this has to do with the euro, no, but for me it doesn't matter at first sight. So that can't be an argument. The first thing I think there are a million other things we should do in Croatia to introduce the euro and that the euro should not be introduced for at least another 10 years, if not longer, until we are ready for it, but it is again my political position. But this has nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167657	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167658	The Honorable Chairman. Comrade Maras, you've been talking about discharging entrepreneurs, and I absolutely think that we agree that we should relieve entrepreneurs from all contributions, particularly the chambers. But I would tell you if I talked to entrepreneurs, it's not even crucial. The simplicity of business is crucial. How today, how much the average entrepreneur has business problems today, with bureaucracy. Come on, let's just start with building permits. How much approval is required, Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Neighbours, Banks and all that, that many entrepreneurs simply give up construction. They simply give up when they actually see in that maze of bureaucracy how many times they have to fight with various bureaucrats. And you know what's most important to you in the spatial arrangement? Which you've got, which you've received from the referent because there's so much subjectivity in each of the referents that someone can handle in a few days, and someone in a few months. That's the most important thing, having a good reference.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167659	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167660	Absolutely, not just a good reference. Let me give you an example. I just happened to hear it from a friend of mine. A man builds something in Dalmatia, wants to make some houses and teaches to the county to issue a building permit and reports a neighbor's lawyer, by the way, strangers, who also have a holiday house because lawyers themselves are looking for a job that way. So she explains to her investors how it can slow down the construction of that. So, according to him completely unfounded because man did everything on PS, but lawyers, looking for a job, will now slow down maybe a man, six months, maybe a year, etc. So that's where the whole business developed. I'd recommend the ministry to see how to detimise pointless applications. So that's something that should be done to allow people to work. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167661	Thank you, colleague Maras. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167662	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'll just briefly mention what this is all about. We've really heard a lot of things in the debate, but here we're talking about abolishing mandatory membership in chambers that, if so, super will remain voluntary, so maybe someone will say that for free it's done then it's free and this debate, especially for free those great arguments. On the other hand, when we talk about a reduction or I may have misunderstood that someone here doesn't think that we have too much parafiscal burden, that we're overloading the economy, my position and I believe the majority's attitude is that we should reduce it as much as possible, put them in a function of voluntary, liberal, preferably knowing what you're getting for your money. It is the essence of the amendments to these laws and that, I agree, changes to this law will not change the speed of the building permit. He won't. They won't solve the problems of shipbuilding or health problems, they won't. That might be said for the law on spatial planning and construction where we've been making changes this year that should do so. Then we could talk about it, today about reducing parafiscal loads, we can't talk about increasing speed because it has nothing to do with each other. Either someone has to explain to me what connections you want to pay or you won't, it has to do with the speed of getting a building permit. It's really a good logical bridge that I'd like to listen to, but well, there are different premises and different sylogisms, so maybe they'll find something there. But realistically, the law we discussed this year, where we abolished the notes, the cost of carrying out licences from an average of 11% to an average of 3.7% of the values, and the EU average is 4, no waiting with the counters, no number of procedures from an average of 22 to a minimum of 10, and then we can discuss some speed, it was done or maybe it wasn't good. Today when we talk about this, I absolutely can't connect it, but good. Next, as far as complaints go, sanction someone to complain, but watch the situation where we have those big building lobbys, so when they want to tear something down, kill the green one, and now somebody wants to sanction them... Everything by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Uh, you'd like to see someone stand there and defend them and say no, you should take advantage of the civil lobby, punish these people from the Green Association, whatever activists they've been complaining about, "The Srđ is ours" or whatever. This down here, what was here in Zagreb, Flower Square, etc., let's punish them, what they're protesting, let's maybe beat them up. So that's absolute nonsense. As for the introduction of the euro, yes, it is one of the criteria for the way to reduce, to introduce reform processes, to reduce parafiscal pressures, to speed up and this is one small wheel, not to be as grand and large as some entering into the course mechanism, but it is one of the systemic reform measures of the Government that it needs to make. 300 we have regulated professions, should be placed on the average of Europe where 200, or professions are. And that's it. As for HGK, I can understand, you didn't give it to me then, I won't give this to you now. I can understand that. It's kind of human. I think that I can figure out, so if you're a de facto colleague of Maras was a entrepreneurship minister at the time, so I guess I should cut the craft chamber before and show in my backyard how it's done and then say, let's go, I'm making a proposal for you for economics, obviously it went a little bit the way the neighbors did, let's get yours first, and I'll probably do mine, I don't know why the craftsman's chamber didn't go down, but it's a roof organization, so maybe before we put order into those roof organizations, we should start with this Czech, and I agree, we have... Or the American Chamber of Commerce who is doing an extremely job and needs to be a role model so that the chambers should work because when an investor comes and wants to ask how many builders there are, who will ask if there is no economic chamber? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Di's going to knock, some state institution, you can think about what luck will be. So that's the kind of thing you need to do, that's what you should do for that money, that's what I agree. I absolutely agree and it will come one day in a row, there are such, I mentioned here and the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, there are so many things but let's go one by one or we'll all cut, so that's a little bit by little so it doesn't mean anything. That's fine. So, as far as the objection by the profession is concerned, yes, the chambers are opposed to their suspension of mandatory membership as the income they have guaranteed. I understand that, too. I mean, honor of exceptions, who'd say I agree, you cut my income because I'm doing so well and I'm providing that I don't care whether it's mandatory or not, people will realize it's in their favor of doing it. And that's the point. That's the way to behave. According to market principles. If I'm worth something, someone will be willing to pay for it, if I'm not worth it, they won't, or we'll be smarter than someone and tell them what's right in his life or not. This applies only to those fundamental rights. But like this, what, I said, what happened before 2015 until it wasn't? Break and break, mess, almost, we weren't anywhere but we say, we were better on the Doing Business scale, now we've introduced it, so we fell, I don't see that even then there was the end of the world until 2015, or something drastic changed from 2015 to 2019, when we introduced this, nobody told me what we got, how much better, what was happening here, and that, as we say mea culpa, we introduced, we abolished, truth and God. Truth and God. I'm going to say the first word, it's terribly wrong, not the first time, not the last time, but the ability to admit a mistake and realize that something is wrong, and I guess that's what needs to be said. Or we'll stick to what everyone's looking at, and we'll let him go as long as my interest is satisfied, I won't watch what someone else is doing. That's what got us into a lot of trouble. So, as for the speed of obtaining permits, once again, absolutely no connection and now that this is all digitized, it depends most on the units of local self-government as they are organized because in Osijek, it's extremely good and you won't find too much... And here's Mrs. Crescent. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dark Taritash knows, she came to the householder's meetings when a complaint was to be filed or given consent for some permits, so she came, advised them, and knew how it worked. So, don't let God make it impossible for anyone or punishment to complain there, let people fight if they give consent to get as much as they can from investors, the greater their rights to take advantage of it, I guess that's how it works, but realistically speaking for these 5500 engineers might not change anything, but I'm sure if they're going to pay that membership fee that they're going to get more and that's, that's the goal of it all, and this is still absolutely standing in some political position, whether it's HNS, is it someone else, is it someone else's position, is it an opposition, that we all have to say, to contribute to what can be changed, and first of all to participate that everything more that can be liberalized into that sphere, to allow people to choose for themselves, as they choose today's voluntary health insurance, voluntarily. What do we do now? Look, it's voluntary, and 99% of people pay for it. Why? Because they realized that they were benefiting, that they paid less obviously medicine when they had it. Why would they tell them now it has to be a commitment, and so does this. And I agree with my colleague Maras, at some point, you should think about all these Czech associations and especially the roof, let's go one by one and make a little order in our country, I think we'll all get better. This all other remarks, it sounds nice, especially in the public, but I don't see what this has to do with these specific changes here, so absolutely will certainly support the club of the HNS and this in the second reading, that there hasn't been anything on the board yet, it hasn't been the first time, I hope it doesn't mean that someone will watch what HDZ is doing or individual HDZ members, and then be led by them and say that HDZ might and all of them support it, then I would support it, now that they're not, I won't, because I still don't think it't be a solution, it's not an argument, or some other members who were on that board, so we have very clear things ahead of themselves, something that was necessarily being placed in the sphere of volunteering, they will decide to give them that they should and whether they get for their money that they're offered. Here, and it's the suma suma sumarum of this really simple law that we all agreed it was, and everything else we can talk about about about some other laws and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167663	I thank my colleague Curai. We have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167664	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, let the neighbors know who he is, which, of course, means the fact is that the chamber that sucks the most Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen into, in or only entrepreneurs because craftsmen have their HGK, 5 hundred million kunas on an annual level, let's start with the biggest ones, so that's what it is, it's the biggest discharge. I'm sorry that your president hitched a ride, I can say it with responsibility here, so he set the coalition's condition that it wouldn't work and it went away in 2015, and it's already past a certain government procedure. And on the other hand, at this point, to argue at all about such a law that you still don't know whether you're going to be part of the ruling coalition tomorrow, it's unserious, so to me it's an unserious story and you should finally say whether you're inside the government or not, or whether one of your agents is going to pop up together [[Intruder: Thank you...]] and become a new chip, or a new one, or the chip will be reactivated, no. [[Invader:...respected colleague]] So, is any of those who are in your club going to vote for the government? [[Employer: Answer]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167665	Comrade Maras, I would kindly ask you to hold on for a little while, usually you don't work, but good. My colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167666	Thank you. Okay, first of all, I can agree to discuss the HGK, and I personally also think that this should be arranged to make it even more service for both investors and our economies, and that there may be further order to be introduced and to improve efficiency for what is being paid. I agree, so I absolutely don't have any... We're going systematically, not overnight, not over the knee, not because of some pirate, but because maybe we really need it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the chips, I don't have it, I don't have the impression that it applies to me or my colleagues, I know who it's meant to be, but first of all, I think everything else is irresponsible, irresponsible, so let it go and raise your hands in the air and say I won't play with you anymore, is there something we can't agree on right now, or I think it's responsible to sit, talk, if it goes, if it doesn't go, everyone goes to their side, but then the job has to be done, because that's what the citizens expect, everything else would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167667	Thank you. Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167668	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Curaj, you mentioned the e-authority on several occasions. I'm absolutely convinced it's a good project and I think it takes time for some projects, so you need some continuity, some projects you can do in 4 years, but some of you need 8 years. and 12 years old. And since there is continuity in the Ministry of Construction, the continuity of the same people who were in the government when the HNS was in the coalition with the SDP and who are in the government now that the HNS is in a coalition with HDZ. When we were rated on the Doing Business scale in 2015 you can then look at the portals, then we are evaluated and it is said that the biggest step was made in part related to building permits. What happened on the continuum is that we're from 126 places that we were 2 years ago. Now it works on 150, the same people do it, it's the continuity of that license. What happened here?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167669	Thank you. My colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167670	I thank that continuity has had one break since the 2nd year, I don't believe it's in those 2nd years. Something dramatic could have changed, but the HNS wasn't... In 2016, 2017 and before the Government, the HNS has not been in opposition since 2015, the whole of 2016 and half of 2017. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, well, it doesn't matter, but I'm saying, okay, we can talk if it's all well done then obviously or not everything well done, so it's either still or it's all done well, but here, in one period, some others have done something better, I don't know now, I don't really know what logic it is if we've done it all right by then, why we haven't done it and why it hasn't had the effect of further years, but that year something got better, and later it started to get worse, and as well until then it was done. [[Intruder: Comrades Dark-Taritash, I would ask nicely.]] Obviously, it's continuous what it requires and this continuity is very important and this is on the trail of having to go on hand and on the economy and on those who ask for permission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167671	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167672	Thank you very much. Comrade Curaj, you are now talking about the laws that have been passed and the measures that have been adopted, and they improve the acceleration of the issue of construction permits and the abolition of taxis, the silence of administration, etc. Look, therefore, I may have the impression that something today is going faster or slower, you may have the same impression, however, it's not what is measurable or what is relevant, it's just an impression. And now you've told your colleague, Mr. Dark-Taritash, that something was working, so it wasn't right, etc. Here, I ask you to explain to me, if all these measures have been taken that led to or should have led to the acceleration of the issue of construction permits, how since 2017, since the HNS in the Government and Mr. Štromar, Croatia has fallen 27 places on the Doing Business Board on the speed of issuing construction permits, how did we jump from 123 to Today, 150, or 27 countries have passed us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167673	Dear fellow Djujic, I know you're not normally in violation of time, but here, just please. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167674	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. My colleague Mrak-Taritash gave me this and the creamworth on it, she said that some changes take the effect of years, well 8, so 12, so nothing goes overnight. These amendments to the law are six months back. But if you'd listened to me, they don't depend on the government of the Republic of Croatia. The speed of authorisation depends on units of local self-government, and the biggest problem here is the City of Zagreb... The biggest problem when we look at the City of Zagreb or a colleague of Mrak-Taritash thinks that everything in the City of Zagreb is great, that would be the same problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And then you look at what they're doing and how they're doing, whether they're applying all the legal regulations, so it's not all that, so we have to create a framework, and it's still being accelerated, that it's being done, that it's being respected, that it's being applied, that it can't be expected overnight that something that's been done for 30 years is being passed a new law that all of this immediately applies. I'd love to, but I say again, what you're saying, the statistics, it has a lot to do with the City of Zagreb, and we know how it works there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167675	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167676	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna keep going where I'm in the debate on behalf of the club. We have laws that are technical laws, and when we discuss these laws, we should always discuss and see what improvements they are. No law is carved into stone, any law should be amended, but it should be changed in a way that you should sit down with all participants, talk and see and in that sense change. It's absolutely bad, I have to admit that I'm not evil, but I'm sad when I read that Croatia is related to the issue of construction permits from 126 places that were dropped to 150 two years ago. How does that count? It counts for 3 elements. One element are procedures, the other element is the number of days and the third element is the price of a building permit. We've increased the number of procedures, colleagues and colleagues. And that's why we're so rated. I repeat, Croatia boasted with its e-Alloment and boasted in neighbouring countries, they are now all better than us. What happened here? That's the answer we need to give, no, I'm going to use an ugly word that I don't normally use, we've just decided to go through some laws. Then why didn't she make the decision? His membership in the chamber of architects, builders, engineers, electrician is voluntary. So whoever wants to, who doesn't, doesn't. No, she decided to just touch the performers, why the performers? In doing so, the Regulation on the content of the contractor's written statement on the works performed and the conditions of maintenance of the structure he signs, who? Artist. So, the tradition that was in Croatia was a tradition from which we could always boast, we had a quality performance, it was one of the export products, there, last century when in some other countries, who participates in the process? The designer participates, the performer participates, the supervisory engineer participates. When something bad happens, where they'll come from, not to say, the police, say something goes down? They'll come for the designer, they'll come for the performer, and they'll come for the supervisory engineer with the responsibility of the supervisor, so the contractor and the designer, together, and now those who are in the chamber of engineers, performers, say okay, you've put in order, we're happy where we are, we're paying for membership as it is. I am convinced that all those who have pleaded to be still members of the chamber will be. Then why are we doing this law? Why did she decide to go to the performers? I'm afraid there's an answer somewhere else. You don't kill for a steak cow, but the chambers have been before, the chambers will be behind. We must not impose any laws of uncertainty. Uncertainty in one activity. For the first time in real, long time I've been following, for the first time I've seen everyone united. That was almost impossible for you. So the chamber of architects, engineers in construction and engineers and electricians joined together and spoke the same way. That was with the artist not having at all in the chamber of architects. The Chamber of Architects sees how many performers there are in the chamber of architects. So they're all telling people my amendments and supplementing the law you're making a mess, the Ministry is not listening to us. What's the name of the law? So you're going to regulate one area that lives and works in that area, says you're not doing well. You're still stubborn and you're doing it. I can't understand that. But to get back maybe a step of what we're all talking about, and we're talking about a building permit. The building permit is issued by offices, offices that are either in county or in large cities. The local self-government units can't at this point in any way accuse someone of good or bad issuing a building permit and you can't charge them because the offices are only in big cities and in the county. So the units of local self-government were the ones who wanted to have licenses, and that was at one point the debate that maybe they made or went into a discussion there which was not a topic. I repeat, and every time I say, I believe in e-authority, it's a project that's started and a project that needs to be developed further. But I've got you feeling, you know those old trains that went on coal and they have a lot of those parts at all and now someone wants to get out of this first carbon out, but I feel like somebody's still in all that carbon composition. The project eAgreement in the project eAgreement is not only dependent on the Ministry of Construction. You have about 2,000 participants who are participants somewhere, and if you want to go with it, you have to prepare it. That's why I was talking about continuity, so in 2015, another government came in, and in 2017, HNS re-started and managed the Department of Construction. It seems to me that it was a priority project that was to be accepted, but in 2015 when we were evaluated and there are exactly the grades and there are how they evaluate us they said Croatia has made a major shift because it is related to mandatory membership in the chamber you are no longer a member of the position to work in some company than you are a member of the name and last name, we have removed the compulsory schooling and points that have been collected and it is then rated as good. What did we do last year? It's back. Why? When I've discussed it here from this pay phone and said, my people don't do it well back, we need to do steps and look into other countries, we don't have to talk about Denmark, we don't have to talk about Germany, we're talking about other countries in our environment. So other countries from our environment, we had common laws related to spatial planning and construction. Behind that, when the Republic of Croatia won its independence in '94. She was doing her law, so we had the same tradition of issuing licenses. They're among the first 10 or the first 20 per issue of building permits, we're 150. What happened here? Why didn't the eAperture project move on, why didn't the procedures get easier, why didn't they talk to the chambers and the designers and the investors and everyone and it accelerated? This is the key task of either the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, and not... our performers are going after them and thus show that we are liberal. So why didn't you in all the chambers say voluntary membership is for everyone and for the designers and for the performers and everyone else. Why are we messing around and messing around? Don't mess with it. It's actually a mess. And this law goes only beyond someone's personal stubbornness. That's not good, we're not going to step up, we're not going to do it, and who's going to be responsible in the end? Well, investors. I would trust you to really advocate that, in parallel with this, Croatia does not introduce a project manager who is obliged and who costs every investment of 1% to 2%, which is the manager, which is therefore the project manager. He has no responsibility like all these others. Give me three EU countries that have a project leader in the way that Croatia has. I'd believe you if you really wanted to unload it, if you didn't say this with a big halabuka, and at the small door we'd introduce the project manager and spread the powers that are for him. Calculate what 1 and 2% of the projects are now going to be large these agglomeration projects in water supply, which means the project manager about it and what it means in the money and let's put it on the scale now, what it means to introduce a project and expand its jobs for which they work and disbursement of 125 kuna. And here we have seen from the documents that most of them will remain members of the chamber, so we will not achieve that discharge. But the thing where it takes real effort and energy is eAuthorization. eAllocation is a good project, but if we go like this, someone else in this House might have a chance to talk about the good effects of the eApertion, you know what year? It's about 2031, '32. when it will be too late for any serious investment in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167677	Thank you. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167678	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrades, I speak to you, but let my colleague hear me. The cities and municipalities don't issue building permits. The building permit can only be issued in the city of Zagreb which has different status. Whether these offices of state administrations that now issue building permits will stop working or the county will issue permits, we'll see, that's the plan. But I'd say you'd be looking forward to even having cities and municipalities issue building permits. Why? That's why you'd know who didn't issue a building permit in time. The city and the municipality have its own mayor and mayor who would be responsible for it. There are no responsible men today. Construction permits are issued for months, literally months, and it's not good to know who's guilty, no one's ever called in this county mayor for anything that didn't go but the mayor and the mayor, is. And I'd like cities and municipalities to betray it if they had their capacities and to know who's to blame if someone doesn't get a building permit within months and two months and not today for six months. or longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167679	Thank you. Answer, colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167680	Thank you very much. The administration thus, by law of 2007 had jurisdiction to issue building permits from the Office of State Administration to county offices or large cities which were the headquarters of the county or cities that were declared. So when one was working, so there were laws in the area of spatial planning and construction in 2012, they went into effect in 2013, then it was a serious thought to move some of the jobs to municipalities and cities. Now we have one problem here, we have 556 units of local self-government plus the city of Zagreb and they all don't have the same capacity. And that's where the problem started, but what did we do then? Talked to the Association of Cities, talked to the Association of Municipalities, thought about what to do, increased the jurisdiction of municipal inspectors, thus transferring the part, so let's see who can, so this is one process and I think we should see progress in this process. What's the point? The point is that people get a quick construction permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167681	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167682	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, so responsibility goes to the designer, supervisory engineer and performer. Where's the builder? ... But he's not a responsible person. He's a performer. You said it yourself. The legal person is a responsible person. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Not a natural person, you said it yourself, you didn't say construction engineer and the construction manager is a responsible person, no, you said performer, the contractor is a legal person. There he has several builders of the engineering site but he responds as a legal person. Furthermore, of course all the chambers have rebelled because who knows who's next, maybe they're just going to solidarity so it doesn't come to us. And thirdly, when I say units of local and regional self-government, then that's where the county is thought of, but also cities, or big cities, as you said yourself. So maybe I haven't figured out enough, but they are local and regional self-government units, they're not isolated. Being a big city, he's still a local self-government unit. I don't see where that problem is or the county is regional. So... I also think we understand each other here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167683	Thank you. Answer, esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167684	Thank you very much. So, we need to listen carefully, so when we listen carefully, it will probably be a little less replica than it would normally be. Likewise, I'm not one of those Assembly MPs who I'm a general practitioner, so I understand everything, but in something I understand, I usually speak to the construction heads if you haven't noticed and it would be good to read the article. 2nd and 3rd. Regulation on the content of the written statement by the performer on the performances and conditions of maintenance of the building and see who signs. That's where it's clear who's on the construction site is responsible, the construction chief, he's always been and he will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167685	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167686	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, there are therefore two actors in the building, so I see, there is a performer, a pardoner, an investor, one who has money and a performer, one who will do something for him for that money, and then there is a profession, starting with the designer, the construction manager, the supervision that keeps these two from doing what they think of but doing everything that is in accordance with the law. And when it comes to the profession, it must not be experimented, the profession must also be respected in that sense and the observations of the chamber, although I have my own objections to the work of the chamber, but this is not about the work of the chamber and the membership fee, but this is about the fact that the profession makes serious remarks about this law. And as for the permits themselves, look what happened. The County Road Administration, which is the founder of the county, will ask the county office for specific building conditions for a local permit. In other words, the county will look for documents on its own. It seems to me that these documents will collapse in a few weeks, maybe months, but that's one absurd thing that we've brought legal proposals that haven't been studied to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167687	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167688	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sagar, in fact you and certain thesis were absolutely well placed in your question, or in your replica. So on the one hand, we have this story, which is a story with the investor and the performer, and with all those who participate, and it's clear in the end because of all mistakes or because of all the problems, it's going to be brought together by the investor, but a lot of really time has been used and we've talked about the email. Imagine when you actually have an email license and you have to process it and now you have to get special terms or consent from someone, he doesn't have a computer at all on his desk. That's what we have in Croatia. How are you gonna get him to put the CD? I mean, to make it pretty clear to the end. There's nowhere to put it because there's no computer. So, you have to follow the processes. Croatia is not only the city of Zagreb and the north of Croatia, Croatia is much, much wider space.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167689	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the motionary State Secretary, Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. All those who participated in the debate, thanks for all the objections, criticisms and debates that were ever held on these two laws, so the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. What was the point of these laws, today several times wondered and often lost in the debate, and now in the end it's about the e-authority, about the permits that are not the subject of this law at all. So the point of these amendments to the law is administrative discharge, professional business services, part of the current economic policy of this government, which is also implemented by the HNS within the Department of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, and is relieved of the economy and implementing reforms. In accordance with the measures laid down in the action plan for administrative dispensation of the holding, it was necessary for construction engineers or workers to replace compulsory membership in the chamber with a non-mandatory register of the chamber, therefore, only necessarily changes to optional. During today’s debate, we could hear about how problems would arise, no matter what problems would arise if someone was willing to enroll himself in the chamber. So, if our engineers also respect the expertise of our engineers as individuals, let's not ignore it, I can, by my will, assess whether there's something opportunistic for them, whether it's opportunistic to pay for them and what they get for it. Otherwise, we must also be fully aware that most businessmen are paying for the membership of their construction engineers in the chamber, so the obligation is indirectly transferred from one to another to another, or the company. Why is that? The logical question arises, why in this moment, the businessmen have kept silent on this charge of 10 million kuna per year, which is estimated that with this amount of 5500 construction engineers is just hiding in this trap set to engineers, according to our colleagues with compulsory insurance, therefore the economic operator, the company that deals with building its own obligation, tries in any way and in any way to transfer its responsibility to the individual engineer by pushing his compulsory insurance and transferring his responsibility to him, and that is not possible because the individual engineer does not sign the contract, not gain from what is produced on the site, but only by the company. On the other hand, when you look at these contracts, which these insurance contracts our engineers received if it's excluded that our construction engineer's insurance does not cover them, if it works against the law, if it works against the project, if it works against the profession. What does that mean? It means that she doesn't cover him at all, because if she's working by project, by law and by the rules of the profession, that means he couldn't make a mistake. Furthermore, the proposed legislative arrangement of voluntary membership in the chamber for construction engineers or workers is also one of the measures outlined in the context of showing the intention of joining the European course mechanism ERM2 and English... Mechanism 2. In accordance with the OECD methodology for measuring the regulation of professional services used by the European Commission and the World Bank, i.e. through the '18th National Reform Programme. in the section relating to the liberalisation of the service market, the regulation of compulsory membership in the building chamber and the labour leaders, constitutes an obstacle to the freedom of competition. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why is that? Because our engineers, if they're members of the chamber, then they have a problem getting jobs abroad, and the foreign representative, the foreign engineer at the construction site can work with us because he's being watched for what's in his house, so no one's stopping a foreign engineer from working with us right now, but ours has a problem when he needs to work outside. According to the OECD standard, the Croatian market for professional services is at least a third more regulated than the European average, all of which makes our economy not competitive, so every shift in this direction is welcome, and therefore this terrible resistance seen in all four chambers and as our distinguished representative Mrak Taritash stresses that the chambers have been united, so of course they are united at the moment when their income is taken away, but at this point they should be seen as interested income-losing associations, and nothing more than that. During the debate and through the media, chamber representatives, unfortunately the chamber presidents who should be ethically and professionally above all others, claimed and presented completely contradictory facts and alternative facts regarding the amendments to these laws. So, what's been troublesome is the height of the profession has been compromised. How and by what would the integrity of the profession be affected by the amendments to this law? Engineers only get free will whether they're members of the chamber or not. The destruction of quality is mentioned, how did the chambers control the quality of the works, did something happen by 2015, the quality of the works was so bad? You can't see. There's no such thing as that. Taking away bankruptcy rights, what bankruptcy rights, who is deprived of bankruptcy rights when legally adopted, it is not a diploma to take away someone's diploma, a diploma has acquired the right, not membership in the chamber. It's said to be two, the laws of 2015. They positively influenced the profession, it was a clear farce, as they positively influenced the profession, how they could positively influence when they forced engineers to enter the chamber. So what an engineer is asking is a fundamental question, of course what does an engineer get by being a member of the chamber, and why is such a resistance chamber? Because they, most likely, will lose part of their membership, that they are so quality that our engineers, that these memberships are positive for them, so they would rush into chambers, should not be forced into the law. The chamber organizes free seminars, so it's not true, as far as I know, only these smaller chambers organize free seminars, bigger chambers on top of all these membership fees are still charged by seminars. So, new burdens are introduced through insurance policies, it's not true, so insurance policies are generally not needed for construction heads, it's a pure invention to force them to, and to be given worthless insurance policies, access to norms will repeatedly collect services, access to norms, so we've examined, the ministry has examined access to norms, repositories benefiting 22% of all engineers, and these are mostly designers, construction heads if they need one or two norms then copy, they have this standard, they have no access to norms at all, so the chambers point what people don't need at all. Furthermore, Slovenia and the ministry are not justifiably referred to European directives, but no European directive imposes such conditions on us, such conditions, we just need to be prepared to implement reforms and to relieve our economy of unnecessary burdens, which is why no directive makes the construction chief not to be in the chamber, so whoever ever said that comes from unverified sources or those who claim something that the laymen do not understand. The EU Embassy has obtained data from the ministry that only 7 countries have the obligation of construction engineers to be members of the chamber in all EU member states, only 7 of them must be members of the chamber. Professional internship also, data, five states have a condition of three years of professional training for construction engineers. Six states for two years, two states one to two and fourteen have no standing conditions for construction heads at all. So people, that's not all that stands out in these arguments at all, these alleged arguments that come from chambers, which have been widely used today in this debate, are not at all arguments, these are alternative facts. Therefore, the benefits that will bring amendments to the laws in question. First of all, it makes it easier to access the profession, our young engineers are already able to start working as well as the European economic space market, which brings them to a more market-friendly situation, which is the first two benefits for our engineers. Next, the financial situation is improving because they do not pay annual membership fees and professional insurance they do not need at all. Next, the professional position remains the same, does not affect the safety of the performance of the work because even membership did not affect the safety of the work. Nothing better happened on the site if someone became a member of the chamber because simply the chamber has no instrument to monitor what's happening on the site. Furthermore, the free choice decides to enroll in the chamber and free access to the Croatian norm repositories that they also do not need. So, there are some things that our engineers don't need at all, and our engineers are aware of that, they knew that, but by a great law in 2015, they were introduced into the chamber system. Whether it was thought to be something better then, it is possible but in the meantime it was recognised that the Croatian economy is too normised and that it must be relieved of parafiscal burdens. In addition to the above, chambers receive incentives for more active action. So today, when you open the Internet pages of our chambers, look at what they do, organize seminars that charge our membership again. Where's the part, where is she, where's the incentive for someone to become a member of the chamber? The conditions for contractors whose construction site engineer is an employee remain the same and the fulfilment of these conditions at the site is controlled by the control engineer member of the chamber. So, the important system remains, nothing in the system is disrupting itself, just discharging the economy and making it easier for our engineers to work on the European market as well as for faster access to the domestic labour market. All in all, I thank all those who participated and I hope that this law will be as positive as the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167691	I thank Secretary of State Uhlir. We have several replicas, the first replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167692	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here's to clarify something, I guess the rest of us in general practice, is that, which we don't mention, and then we're not doing a dissent from ourselves and other politicians you said that the builder or the construction manager doesn't sign contracts and actually doesn't mean anything to him. And a colleague quoted a rule that is now missing, in which she says he's responsible, is that maybe he's responsible for his job, that his employees follow the rules of protection at work as a responsible person inside the company? She may have thought of it and wanted to say that she was and was responsible for the investor or the general rules of the profession. Here I really don't understand, I just know what I read and what a healthy logic tells me. A healthy logic tells me if the performer says he's responsible legally then it's a performer and not a manager or a pardon, the head of the construction site with the contractor. He knows what his job is and what his responsibility is for a job or for a job that's not done. And you've said this well as far as these insurance companies are concerned, obviously, it's no use to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167693	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Milorad Batinic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167694	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, so the two key things that are regulated by this law, the possibility of choice, whether I want to be a member of the chamber or not, it's up to me to assess what benefits I get from it, but I'm not in a commitment and second, in a competition there's no discrimination as it has been until now if you're not a member of the chamber. The fact is, in real life, I believe that there are certain benefits and benefits for those who are members of the chamber, but it's not a guarantee because we can also see daily experiences, our own experiences on the workshops, three times they've torn down the curbs, set up new ones, the head of the workshop was a member of the chamber, there's no guarantee. Asphalted little-footed playground, they had to have the head of the workshop again. So there's no guarantee. And as for responsibility, whoever signed the contract, that's a match and a material one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167695	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167696	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have now said that mandatory membership was introduced in 2015, as I recall you were then Deputy Minister of Government when it was being introduced, so just for the sake of being clear, but at no time in your address you did not tell us, you were talking about chambers, I am sorry that you are not unique when the other chambers are concerned. You have practically quoted from the words of your colleague Maras here only at the moment when he talks about the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and you are now talking here about and I agree with you what you said I'm just sorry that you didn't get along then in our government when you blocked exactly those things when you were talking about chambers. But what is most important, this with membership in the chamber, not membership, will not speed up the issue of building permits in practice, nor will people get construction permits faster, nor will it stop Croatia from falling at the speed of the issue of construction permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167697	Thank you. My colleague Uhlir, nothing. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167698	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you've brought it out so I suppose with the right of some criticism about the work of the chamber regarding their seminars, the costs they impose on engineers, only one question in accordance with article. 61st and 62nd. The chamber law. Are you conducting surveillance? The Ministry, it says in an article. 61st, the ministry monitors and oversees the legality of the work of the chamber in carrying out operations on the basis of its public powers. So it's a body with public authority under the ministry. Who goes there when they go there and does it check out exactly what they're doing, how does it check out what's going on? Of course, you can say now even though in that... In accordance with the law, their business does not have to be necessary for the benefit of the profession and for the benefit of all the engineers who are in that system, but there you do not now wash your hands like Pilate, so go, talk to these people, make them work as it will benefit and develop the economy and development of the profession, and eventually develop the whole society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167699	Thank you. Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ana-Marie Petin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167700	Dear Chairman, I'm sorry, I have a very serious problem, it's the minister's social care center, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167701	Dear colleague Pernar, I would ask you nicely, you didn't get the word, let your colleague say, and then we'll talk further, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167702	Mr. Brkic, I'm the Social Services Center calling my wife for an interview... In my court of law, and I'm asking for my resignation for those of the welfare center... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] my family. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167703	Dear colleague Pernar, based on art. I give you a warning in 239, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167704	And I must warn you, I will no longer tolerate such behavior and that you can no longer treat me like this, nor do you social care centers... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167705	Dear colleague Pernar, based on art. 240 I give you a warning by taking away the word to the end, until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167706	...g. Brkic here at HS because it's about my child and my family and no welfare center will bully my family just because we refuse to vaccinate our child, it must be clear to everyone here, and no other parent... harassing parents in... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Social care centers because they refuse to vaccinate their child. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It won't happen again, Mr. Brkic, let them just send, I'll shout out loud, I won't be silent anymore. That must be clear, Mr. Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167707	Dear colleague Pernar, please have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167708	I will not lose my nerves for them, nor will I worry, I ask that this moment cease the persecution of my family and give... guarantees that the procedure conducted by the Centre for Social Care in Karlovac against my family will be stopped. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167709	Based on an article. In 241st, I give you a strict measure of distance from the HS session until the end of today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167710	Mr. Brkic, I'll... To touch my family... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to yell... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Brkic, you can only carry me out of HS. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167711	Thank you. Please leave the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167712	Dear ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167713	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hereby set a break from 15 minutes to 14.05 p.m., and I call on the Assembly's guard to move my colleague Pernar away from the Parliament Hall, from the plenary hall. Thank you. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.07 HOURS]] I would like to thank the Secretary of State of the Department of Civil Engineering and the spatial arrangement of Mr. Zeljko Uhlir with an associate on reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167716	Your Honor, Vice President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167717	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 2. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167718	The amendment is not accepted with the reason that the engineer of construction sites and the manager of works are the same profession, and the law prescribes minimum conditions. The only difference between construction engineers and construction engineers is that the work manager can also be a geotechnical or geo-engineering profession that the construction site engineer can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167719	Thank you. Dear colleague Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167720	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We will ask for a vote on this amendment. In fact, it is that there is one standard in Croatia, there is a standard related to the area of construction. I absolutely think it's good when you do some steps forward, it's good to open the market, but it really takes a professional quality debate. This was not the case with these amendments and the addition of laws, and we are absolutely certain that this will be a disorder in the area of construction. That is why it is proposed to retain the professional conditions which have access to that profession as they have so far been. As I was saying at the outset, please vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167721	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dark Taritash. We move on to the 3rd amendment of the respected representative Damjan Vucelic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167722	The amendment is not accepted if the argument is the same as under point 2 or the difference between construction engineers and workers is that they are the same profession and the minimum conditions are prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167723	Thank you. Dear colleague Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167724	We're looking for a vote on that amendment. You have now said that it can't be two jobs means a builder and a construction engineer that can't also be a construction engineer, we ask why the obligations of the chambers are prescribed, the establishment of the director's directory and the financial costs associated with this when the conditions for performing construction engineers' and workers' tasks are evened, and therefore the conditions for enrollment in these two directorys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167725	You're looking for a vote. Thank you. We're moving on to the Fourth Amendment of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167726	Amendment 4 is not accepted. It is essentially the same as in point 2 of the second amendment, because construction engineers and construction directors are the same profession, and the law prescribes minimum conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167727	Thank you. Dear colleague Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167728	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since it is already the previous amendment that the applicant did not accept, in fact, without these two provisions of the law are closely tied to each other, therefore it is absolutely the same argument. What we're looking for, we're asking for no mess, we're asking for the same solution to stay, if that solution has proved to be good for years. This solution actually introduces a mess into an area that has been regulated in which all those who operate in the area are satisfied so that it is basic. It is absolutely unclear why the Proposer decided to go into these amendments and supplement laws because those who work under that law, according to this law, act okay, let's keep going so well. I therefore ask nicely for a statement or vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167729	You're looking for a vote. Thank you. We move on to the 5th Amendment of Honored Representative Damjan Vucelic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167730	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, is it the same as this previously attached to Amendment No 2 with the same explanation of construction engineers and workers are the same profession, and the law prescribes minimum conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167731	Thank you. Dear colleague Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167732	We demand a vote on the above-mentioned amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167733	Thank you. We're moving on to the Sixth Amendment of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167734	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the ministry takes over keeping records of project leaders due to the observed unequal behaviour of chambers when registering project leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167735	Thank you. Dear colleague Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167736	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I often get the feeling that we're playing, playing the law, that it's important enough for us to get a large number of laws into this debate room, so that's how we play with these laws. There's people behind this. These aren't potatoes, you can't move them from one to another. In doing so, the ministry should decide whether some of the jobs will be run by the ministry or run by chambers. The case has so far been kept by the Ministry of Auditions. Now the ministry has concluded that the audit records will not be kept by him, but will run the chambers, so that goes to the chamber. But it would be good if the ministry kept records of project leaders so that no more chambers would do so but would work by the ministry. And here we're all playing with people, behind that there are people, there are professions, there are obligations, there are ultimately investors working on this space. So they're not potatoes, so you can't just move them from one bag to another and then play a little bit and then go to the first one. What's always good, it's always good that there's one continuity, this is really what we're breaking all together and therefore we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167737	Thank you. We move on to the 7th Amendment of Honored Representatives of Snow White Sabolek. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167738	The amendment shall not be accepted in the same way as the reasons for the amendment No. 6th because the ministry noticed that the chambers acted unequally when the project leaders were enrolled in the directory.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167739	Thank you. Dear colleague Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167740	We'll ask for a vote on this amendment. The project manager's record, which has so far been run by chambers under the current law under this provision, has been taken over by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. They are not, in fact, clear reasons why the responsibility for keeping this record is transferred to the Ministry and there is no clear explanation for this provision where it is stated. So we'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167741	Thank you. We're moving on to the 8th Amendment of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167742	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because there cannot be 4 different acts governing the same issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167743	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Dark Tarist, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167744	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, it might be a little more instructive if the motionary had explained why this amendment did not accept. In 2015, among other things, it was related to professional training and was no longer an obligation, and when we were evaluated on the scale of doing business, it proved to be something good that Croatia had done, and therefore in terms of issuing building permits it was said to be a step forward. 2018. when we put it back into the law, of course the result was also on the scale of doing business fall related to building permits from 126 to 150 place. Therefore, not to play the leadership of a ministry, not to play with the management of a resistor, but to know exactly why we are doing something. On the one hand, the justification for these laws was a reduction in certain costs, professional improvement and an increase in these costs. So on the one hand, we reduce costs for engineers of 125 kuna per month but on the other hand we introduce them a commitment that is significantly higher without mentioning a commitment that is related to project leaders and in each project, the investor will bear 1 to 2% of the value of this project. It's just enough to figure out what 1 and 2% of the value of a single project means, so we'll actually see that this is all a big, colorful lie together. So I ask the vote and this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167745	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. We're moving on to the 9th Amendment of Honored colleague of Snow White Sabolek. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167746	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because it is the same as the 8th and the 8th argument that there cannot be four different acts governing the same issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167747	Thank you. Dear colleague Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167748	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167749	So we'll vote on this amendment. We are moving to the 10th Amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167750	The amendment is accepted, it's about nomotechnical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167751	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167752	We're moving on with our work. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 659. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Damjan Vucelic, representative of Snježana Sabolek, GLAS Representatives' Club, HNS Representatives' Club, Liberal Democrats. The amendment review was submitted by electronic means, and the amendment statement was carried out earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's take it in a row. The first is the amendment of the HNS's Club of Representatives, he was accepted. The second GLAS counseling club, the government didn't accept it, so we have to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3 Representatives Damjan Vucelic, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 4, the GLASs's club, the government doesn't accept it. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5 Representatives Damjan Vucelic, the government does not accept, please let us vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 6 Clubs of Representatives of the Voice, the Government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 7 Representatives of Snowsabolek, the government does not accept it, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8 Clubs of Representatives of the Voice, the Government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. The 9 MPs of Snow White Sabolek, the government does not accept, and we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 10 The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, please vote. I find that the majority of votes, 69 for, 9 abstentions and 23 against the passed Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167946	We move to the next item of the day's work: - (a) The proposal for a decision to resolve the Ombudsman for gender equality (b) The proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer for gender equality is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 20. Gender equality laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality. I would like the representative of the proposer, the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy Mr. Ivica Bosniak, to give us an additional explanation of the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167947	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. So far, the lawyer for gender equality, Višni Ljubicicic, expired 2 days ago and 28 October, respectively. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Gender Equality is prescribed to appoint and resolve the Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman for gender equality, the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At a session held on 17 October, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the Ombudsman for gender equality with effect on 28 October 2019 for the expiry of the term of office. At the same meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established, on the basis of the procedure under its published public call, the proposal for a decision to appoint a gender equality lawyer, which is once again proposed to appoint Višnja Ljubic as a lawyer for gender equality. Višnja Ljubicic is well known to the public in the field of protection of human rights by her personal pawnage and work, as well as the Ombudsman for gender equality. The following is proposed that according to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament should be resolved and re-named Višnja Ljubicic as Advocate for Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167948	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take her word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167949	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a lawyer for gender equality is an opportunity to refer primarily to the status of women in our society. Women in Croatia are in an increasingly unequal position year after year. And I would say free never more threatened than today. Their reproductive rights have been compromised, they are unequal at work, they are unequal in public life, they are unequal in their homes, they are unequal in their workplace, they are unequal in pension. Most of the time, we feel this inequality at every turn. As for women in the workplace, it should be pointed out that women's salaries in Croatia are lower than men's salaries for the same or similar jobs on average by 8.7%. We are also witnessing that women are unjustly excluded from the leadership functions, i.e. that they are mostly employed in lower-ranked and less-paid jobs. The peace of women compared to men in Croatia is as low as 22%. It should be noted that women except for work in their working life carry the greatest burden of care for the house and family. De facto women in Croatia carry most of the workload in the house that is not valued in any way. It is a devastating fact that women, when they lose their jobs after 50 years, are discriminatoryly excluded from the labour market and find it difficult to return. At that time, they are forced to continue caring for their families to do low-paid part - time jobs often on black and all to survive. And with all the difficulties that women face, they are further exposed to domestic violence. In every part of our country there are women, someone's mother, daughters, sisters, women who need the help of our society. Their pain and cry shall not remain within four walls. Their pain and cries are a warning to society. In 2018, as many as 18 women were killed by close individuals, showing that violence is increasingly brutal and that the rate of violence is growing unsustainably year after year and it is high time for us in Croatia to do something because women are in a worse position than ever. Regarding cases of domestic violence, women remain in the vast majority of victims of domestic violence. Due to domestic violence, about 11,000 people were reported infractions, 10.7% less than in the same period last year, 78% of men and 22% of women. Out of the total number of perpetrators of the crime, 91% and 9% are among the close men. Out of the total number of victims killed in criminal acts, 75% are women. Citizens' complaints continue to refer to non-recognition of certain forms of domestic violence, double detention, violation of safeguard measures, misunderstanding of the dynamics of domestic violence by competent institutions. An increasing number of victims of violence have also been observed that give up testifying against their violent spouses or partners since the first application or even during the course of the trial. Therefore, the trend in reducing the number of persons reported does not give a complete picture of the extent of this problem because it actually increases the number of unreported cases, i.e. victims who suffer violence while at the same time growing cases of criminal nature violence against women and families, including the most serious crimes against the harm of close persons, and most often women, such as murders, threats, serious and particularly serious physical injuries and the like. With a mild penalty policy, and I will remind myself, below 10% of the prison's unconditional sentences, the reason for this trend is, in fact, the mistrust of victims in the work of institutions, primarily the judiciary, and insufficient support for victims and the lack of any systematic and serious preventive or rehabilitative activities aimed at perpetrators of violence. In addition to domestic violence, victims of partner violence still do not have adequate legal protection, so better legislative solutions should be sought urgently. More than obvious that existing laws should actually be changed because it is evident that in practice they do not do what they are written for. Things about the fight against violence are very slow and violence against women should be talked about, but it should primarily be done effectively. It is evident in the Republic of Croatia that there are laws dealing with these issues, especially the issue of violence against women, that there is an Istanbul Convention which unfortunately does not apply in practice. It is a big deal, and if it is done at this pace, the Istanbul Convention will not live for another decade, and the situation is more than alarming because there is still no shelter for women victims of violence in all counties, the promised SOS national registration line does not exist, the existing shelters are re-tracted, there are no experts missing, and there are failures in the service that we do not talk about, which says there is no one on either side or education, but no awareness of people, citizens on this issue. The story of Istanbul, the realization of its provisions, the suppression of violence in practice and the regulation must be more effective because there is no free, open, tolerant, fair, modern society without full gender equality. And the fight for equality is in its being a fight against injustice, the fight against inequality and the fight against discrimination because whether you're old or young, male or female, which you are a national or who you're a religion, it's important to us in the SDP that you're only human, we don't share people, that's the RH I see and that's the RH I want to belong to, but in order to belong to such an RH, we need to build that equality into the foundations of our society, as we in the SDP were willing to build into the statutes, in the foundations of our party, and therefore for the first time in the history of SDP, we have the same number of men and women. The last list that was thus drawn up was a list for the European elections. I hereby urge all other parties in the Republic to follow our path, he does not cost money, costs a little effort, costs a lot of heart and some injured male egos. My goal is equal to the number of men and women in politics because I am fully convinced that when women in the Republic of Croatia succeed they will succeed the entire Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167950	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167951	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we discussed a report by the Advocate General for 2018 a few months ago. which has indeed been comprehensive and very detailed, today we are talking about its resolution or its renaming. I would refer only to a few of the personally important things that have happened in the past term, which I think are extremely important in gender equality, which is what the attorney's office does. What was constantly and daily highlighted was discrimination based on gender, family status, motherhood, sexual orientation, gender identity, employment, family, political participation and education. What should be pointed out is that the D.A.'s office was not only in large cities, but was moving, I would say so, in the field, in a way that it collaborated with the county's gender equality committees. Let us remember that the Ombudsman is through her projects, a total of 4 European projects implemented by the attorney's office, and through these projects she has been very actively involved with local and regional units. It should certainly be noted that, during this term, very good co-operation has been achieved with other institutions and institutions, as can be seen by respecting the decision of the Ombudsman's own institution. It is certainly positive and should be pointed out to encourage inter-resorship cooperation and permanent education in other systems. Let us not forget that during this term actively participated in the education of police officers, that agreements with the Ministry of Defence were signed, that they were educated members of the military police, but also the employees of the Social Care Centre themselves. What we need to highlight, and this is a very good, correct and quick treatment of complaints against citizens and citizens on issues of media content, where only the Ombudsman often warned about sensationalism in reporting, and especially about family violence. Let us not forget the gender-based humiliation in public statements, then sexism in advertising campaigns, this has resulted in a certain education in the media. It should be pointed out that we often call for children to be our future and that we need to direct our children to sport, so this office in its action also referred to discrimination in sport which is still current. The Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality in cooperation with the Croatian Handball Union conducts certain research but also educates young athletes, handball players and handball players, as well as their trainers and trainers. This promotes equality, respect, and avoidance of sexual harassment. Finally, I would point out that, in addition to the four European projects implemented, a number of publications, recording and documentary films have been carried out, and all to point out gender discrimination in the judiciary and media reporting in cases of violence against women. It should be pointed out that in the last year or two more attention is paid to women who are from rural areas that often pass under our radar. And they also talk about women with disabilities, victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, victims of human trafficking. These are just some of the parts we discussed a few months ago when the current report was by the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2018. Since several of these listed parts have been seen as the lawyer's office in this term of attorney Ljubicic's office working closely with other institutions, he became visible, he acted on the ground, and we from the HDZ Club will support his re-nomination. And I would just end up by mentioning a very interesting project where it was said that, in which children from high school co-operated according to the real equality of men and women, the coordination of professional and family life. This project still highlights some children who believe it is normal for father to slap a mother and therefore let us not forget how important this area of gender equality is, how important it is for us to educate children, how important it is for us to inform children, and that it is not only the lawyer's office, the lawyer's office responsible for such actions, but that the whole system is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167952	I thank my colleague Josic, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167953	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representatives of the Office of the Advocates for Gender Equality, Fellow Members and colleagues. I am pleased to discuss today the proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer for gender equality. The materials we received at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the implementation procedure under the published public call were also set out the proposal for a decision to appoint the Advocate General for Gender Equality to which Mrs. Višnja Ljubičić again proposes to appoint a lawyer for gender equality. As stated in point 4 of the Public Call for the Advocate General for Gender Equality, a person who is known to the public in the field of protection of human rights may be appointed as a person who, among other things, is known to the public. The U.S.S.S.S.A.'s club says it's Mrs. S.S.S.S.S.A.'s biography. The pet fully and more than necessary actually meets the required conditions. - Mrs. Crescent. Višnja Ljubicic, in her current term, has shown expertise in acting, proactive action following court proceedings, civil litigation and the protection of victims from sexual harassment at work, all forms of domestic violence, discrimination based on pregnancy, motherhood, sex and sexual orientation, and any form of direct and indirect discrimination. The role of the Advocate General for Gender Equality is an extremely important and independent institution, which, according to annual reports, is how to read increasingly to gain confidence in citizens and citizens, which greatly encourages the whole society to change for the better, above all regarding the visibility of women in society, marginalised groups and greater transparency in the work of other institutions. During the eight-year term of office so far, Ljubicic we saw that, in the role of the Ombudsman for gender equality, she publicly came forward and warned about the occurrences of discrimination in relation to the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, Family Law, the Law on Social Welfare, the Law on Hostage, the Criminal Law, the Law on the Life Partnership of Persons of the same Gender, etc.. She regularly participated in committee meetings, i.e. the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, the county in most cities, organised thematic conferences and education on the subject of the recognition and protection of human rights, participated in expert meetings, round tables in the country, the region and the world. But what we have received as the Club of Representatives of the SDSS in recent years has certainly been the commendation of the work of this independent and for citizens of increasingly important institutions which can be seen from its work on with 93 civil society organisations, institutions, trade unions, parliamentary political parties and exceptional availability to all. In the previous term of office of Mrs. Ljubicic conducted 4 memorandums of cooperation signed by the Police Academy of the Ministry of Law in Zagreb, Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy and Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. From 2011 to 2019, for the Republic of Croatia, she was the holder of an extremely important 4 European projects financed by the European Commission's total value of EUR 590,000. We had the opportunity to hear that it was 4 projects to remove the glass maze, the equality of opportunities in access to economic decision-making positions in Croatia. Then, according to the real equality of men and women, the harmonisation of professional and family life, the construction of effective protection of the system to combat violence against women, and equality of rights, equal wages, equal pensions, expansion of scope of implementation, action and legal standards of gender equality with the aim of achieving gender equality and preventing poverty in Croatia. In the end, I would conclude that it is the least law enforcement office with only 10 employees who are doing an extremely important job with Mrs. Ljubicic at the head. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and my personal name, I certainly support Mrs Ljubicic's previous work as a lawyer for gender equality and I welcome her re-election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167954	Thank you. On behalf of the club of HSU representatives, independent representatives and SNAGA respected counterpart Marko Vučetic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167955	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. This point today is the point where we can meet what happened in the Republic of Croatia and what the Ombudsman has done so far, and it concerns the violation of the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, or what led to the disappearance of many civil and human rights to individual persons simply because they belong to a gender that is sub-represented, even in some ontological sense or gender. It is not disputed that the current and future Ombudsman meets all the conditions, that her professional references are such that she deserves to be elected and that this club of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA supports her re-election. However, we have another issue. What we are facing and what reality we are facing, and this reality is built and is in the working time of the Ombudsman, and also in our existential time, or in the time of this state that I said two weeks ago that it is semi-contained, that because it is unable to protect its citizens, it is unable to protect them from violence. When it comes to the prosecutor for gender equality, it is a specific area, which is the area of our perception of human beings. Why do we consider human beings in a dualistic way, in a way that male and male, that is, the humiliation of women and women, if they are sexual or gender roles. Croatian society is a society that discriminates. I come from the Zadar area, which these few days is known for just one silence, silence. This silence and silence on violence against women's sexes, towards those who play and play a gender role that should be the role of a complete commitment to men that we have come to the situation that violence is nationalized to us, that violence becomes an integral part of our identity. Zadar is not a special environment and does not bounce in statistics compared to violence against women. In some parts of violence there are more, but what marks Zadar is silence, silence, undisturbed violence. Violence acts almost as an echo of mass, violence and violence have the right to the public so that the public almost gives them support to continue to participate in violence. The lawyers for gender equality should stop this spiral of violence. The state that wants to be provided in institutions, and among these institutions is also the Ombudsman for gender equality, should end this spiral of violence and make it clear to the public that violence against women in this case, violence against women and girls must not be tolerated. Violence ceases to be tolerated when we talk about it, when we talk about a bully as one of the denied humanity, and when we talk about the victim in terms of heroism and of what the state is being identified with at that time. The state when she's silent she's identified with a bully, a state when she talks and in a way that protects citizens she's identified with the victim. Discrimination and inequality is taking away the reality of reality in the Republic of Croatia. Logic is extremely important, what in logical terms cannot survive can not survive even in a real sense. The concept of parents, a parent who threatens children who do not love children, is not a parent. And to all children of the Republic of Croatia who parents don't love, whom parents don't care about, I'm telling them to shut down the concept of parenting because they don't have parents. A state that doesn't care about its citizens is not a state. We can turn that idea off. Equality of the concept that rests on having equal rights, if we do not have equal rights, if a man can talk about what women's rights are, who are women's rights, if a majority of people can talk about the rights of national minorities in this concept should be extinguished. Then there is no equality here, but there is an inequality. Let us introduce negative concepts to realize that the reality that we are living with and the reality that we are facing is the reality of negative concepts or that our concepts are now concepts of inequality, concepts of discrimination, concepts of seizing rights. The lawyers for gender equality should define, determine and release these negative terms to the public in order for the public to come to an end and to have positive concepts and positive reality in the Republic of Croatia. Exceptions and concepts are hiding what we think, hiding the essence of an object, hiding the essence of things. And there's the essence of the object, there's the essence of the thing. Imequity hides violence, violence hides inequality. A country that cannot deal with violence and inequality hides the absence of a state. Let's understand once it's not a state. We are in one of the most important documents that we should have accepted as our proof that we are getting up against violence against women, this is the Istanbul Convention, and then we started talking about gender anthology. If it hadn't been for such sad, antihuman, anti-Horizonic circumstances, I would have laughed here with a ghastly laugh because sex ontology means nothing else to you but that man has become a genital humanoid. Because if sex has become important to you and not to you who is the bearer of sex or human, if you define man from sex, if sex is worth sex ontology, then you are nothing more than the pronouns of your own genitals, genital humanoids. And that would, under normal circumstances, cause me to laugh an awful lot, and I'm not laughing today because there's this syntagma today, and today there's a call to the Istanbul Convention like the one that hasn't stopped the violence. So no one will stop the violence of genital humanoids, who will stop this animal violence but this convention, this prosecution, and the possibility of a different speech, the institutions will show it, will show it as a kind of violence produced by a particular species that... in the Republic of Croatia and this species is created in human form and it is nothing more than what I called genital humanoids. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These genital humanoids want to destroy everything, these genital humanoids want to destroy both women and womanhood in the Republic of Croatia. If we are a state, if we identify ourselves, if the locksmith becomes the authority of what should be this House, this House, and we are representatives of the citizens because we realize that sovereignty originates and belongs to every citizen but that the sovereignty of this Republic belongs primarily to the victim. Most of all, in the original, primal sense, it belongs to the victim, never to the bully. I said I came from a Zadar area where there was silence. The Zadar area is not a particular area of violence, but it must not be a special area of silence. No area must remain silent about violence. No area should lead to the trivialization of violence, to speak of violence in a perfidious way as one did, I don't know if it's a weekly because I called it that it's a single dog article, it's a Croatian weekly, it's a dog article, it's, it's not my intention here to demean dogs, it's my intention to raise that Croatian weekly but he wrote, it's a barking article. It's an article where you bark primarily at the victim. And it's a perfided article in which politicians are dragged in a perfiduous way into this article between me and myself because it's the intention of knowing that politicians are beings, that they're going to talk about themselves and not the victim. I'm talking about the victim, I'm talking about the victim that that weekly barked about, I'm talking about the victim that this weekly acts like a manifesto of this genital humanoid. An event where violence arises. The weekly is nothing but an instrument of violence in Croatian society. This instrument of violence comes first as psychological, mental, and scientific violence because those who read the weekly face their knowledge below the level of that weekly, below the bark of dogs. One who can feed and receive information from one week who defends a bully on the front page, dehumanizes the victim does not belong, not that it does not belong to the civilization world but belongs to no human world but to the world of this genital humanity. The Croatian Parliament and the Republic of Croatia cannot be identified with such violence and with such violence. In order to ensure that we belong to the world, that we belong to the world that will decode the violence in the texts that will talk about the size of the victim, that will find models to be silenced by the animal in our society at one international level through workshops and all that we need in our society, that society is humanized, we need a lawyer, and we need a lawyer. And the club of independent MPs, HSU, SNAGA, New Politics supports the appointment of this lawyer just under this look. So let it be a form of training. It's usually said in this semiprimative environment that it's better to live one day like a lion than five or six days like a sheep. I think we've come into a situation to realize that it's best to live a minute as trainers, to train all those animals around us. The Ombudsman has this role in this society, in a society that cannot face the truth, in a society that today is the Istanbul Convention, instead of thanking and saying the Istanbul Convention is not what we considered to be, the Istanbul Convention is completely something else, it has not revived anything negative for Croatia and the Croatian man of a negative force but has led him to face violence. We have failed to do so and the Ombudsman has a role to play in humanising society but before that it is necessary to take over the role and training of all those who want to animalize Croatian society. So I repeat, I support the attorney's work so far, in many segments I admire this work, and I expect the Ombudsman to understand which new, more complex tasks have occurred and have been created in the Republic of Croatia, and that these tasks are not just tasks to combat, how to combat violence and discrimination but primarily how to give, to learn and one positive content of our knowledge and raised public mind that this mind will be a mind that will show violence, which will identify itself with the victim and who will find all those effective models that discrimination does not exist, especially not to be gender discrimination. All those who call on sex ontology, then accept that if they hold that such a single determination is more permanent, imagine when someone is experiencing discrimination by an identity that belongs to him permanently or more lastingly, it is an identity, I don't know, a man's man's masculinity, permanent or permanent belonging to a woman's woman's womanhood, a person with disabilities, until there's a radical change or a growth of knowledge in medicine, his disability belongs longer or more permanently, and if he's exposed to violence because of the identity that belongs to him permanently or more lastingly, he's daily exposed to violence. The lawyer for gender equality is fighting an inequality that stems from the very identity that someone is permanently wearing. The role of this attorney is therefore here and enlightening, that role is also defensive, that role is role and proactive, this is almost a divine role to create a world out of the mess we are in today's rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167956	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167957	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The distinguished secretaries with their colleague, colleagues and colleagues, here we have before us the appointment of a lawyer for gender equality, however, here is the moment to say what is happening in the Republic of Austria, I would talk more about discrimination between women in the Republic of Croatia in a way that we have today in the example of trade chains, I don't know what is the reaction in trade chains which in women in Austria have, I don't know, five times the pay, than in the same chain in the Republic, literally women are being harassed in the Republic, it's a discriminatory attitude in relation to other countries that have much better salaries, much better terms, it's one example of discrimination of women in the Republic who literally trade chains are slavery, not only about discrimination in trade chains and on relation to women in the Republic, here's example, I'll mean, meaning local discrimination of women in Croatia that I's rights are not supported by the rights, but by the law of the Croatian law, and the law of the law of the law, which I's not even the law of the law, which I's not even the law, nor the law, nor the law, nor the law, nor the law, nor the law of the law of the law, nor the law, nor the law, nor the law, nor the law, nor the law of the law of the law, nor the law of the law, nor the law of the law of the law of the law of the law. They had no marenda, no transport, and when it could be resolved, so even Prime Minister Plenkovic promised to get rid of their claims to the Dalmatian workers, it was not done, it was not done. And when we talk about discrimination by, when we talk about justice, of course, the lawyer is the one who has to be loud and who has to talk about justice is what happened as a colleague said in Zadar, it's everywhere, but the fact that the Daruvarac case, the verdict is first degree, second degree reduced to, compared to first degree, from 5 to 4 g. What is this message of that court according to the victims who have been raped, brought before the public, we're talking about the Daruvarac case, where her head was broken by a urinal, so we simply as a society have to regulate the justice system, protect the meaning and, in this case, protect her from being weaker. If this is the Istanbul Convention, here I will return to it, each must have my own position, I don't think that people who didn't vote for Istanbul that they weren't people, however, I personally didn't vote, neither would vote, I don't think that the Grevia Association that the Croatian State will pay us, that it will help us if we don't arrange the judiciary, and that is now visible, it is visible in Zadar recently that it won't help us any associations if we don't have justice, nor will the lawyer help us, nor will anyone help us right now, so that these documents that Plenkovic here presented, SDP, have not helped, here is now the level at this point, which is how much help it is, not how much help is currently here in the case of Zadar, the silence and the rest of Mrs. Seselja, Botić Marijana, a few people, several other associations and talked about the problem, and under pressure they did it. Therefore, nor do I think that this Ombudsman has done much, and especially because of what everyone has been calling for the Istanbul Convention, here's one of the HDZs telling me how much the Istanbul Convention has moved, this one prevented violence and gender equality, here's violence, discrimination, how much it's been stopped in the Republic of Croatia, as much as it's been prevented, you've been given a round of applause from the SDP, and that's okay, that's correct, the SDP has been looking for it, and I understand that. How much the Istanbul Convention has made a move except that we have an obligation to oversee the Association of Greys, which is a foreign association, and how effective the judiciary is in dealing with rape violence, in this case, women. Only the Zadar case tells us that the judiciary is not functional, that our institutions are not doing their job and that the Republic of Croatia has not done what the tribunal would do except to boast that we have brought the Istanbul Convention, except that EU officials will clap, which will name Marijana Pejcinovic, what they have appointed as the Secretary of the Council of Europe, what has been fulfilled by all the criteria for these officials, at this point I do not see any shift in the matter of both raped women and the problem of all these cases that have been exposed to, and silence where cases have not been exposed, di institutions are silent, it is the very question of all questions. So here was more of a marketing trick of presenting to the world that we've arranged the system, that we'll arrange it and we'll have to pay for it, of course. However, the fact is, let someone confirm to me what the shifts are. I'm asking all of us, what are the shifts in protection in this case since the Istanbul Convention was passed, here in the Zadar case, in the Daruvarca case and in the last case of the girl's rape? What are the developments in this sense, here in the Zadar judiciary, the Dalmatian, the Sinjese, the Croatian judiciary, apart from our boasting, we have adopted the Istanbul Convention. And all those who didn't vote for the Istanbul Convention are enemies. No, I don't. And personally as a man, I was with the workers of "Dalmatinka", a strike, held at the protest then for these women, so it was in "Kamensko" so in other numerous situations where the employer failed to fulfil his obligations to women. In Croatia, women are discriminated against the women of the EU, all of the conventions you voted here, you voted that Plenkovic and his government, regardless of the worldview, only to show the EU and say, here we have adopted the convention. And how does the system work and why in general the Istanbul Convention, and why should we have to pay foreign associations or anyone to control us that we are not prepared to do it ourselves? No matter what anyone thinks here and what they're saying about those who haven't supported the Istanbul Convention either of the citizens, any of the MPs, I'm interested in what's going on in gender equality, in preventing violence, which are the shifts from the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, and I'm saying it's up now. The only thing Mrs. Pejcinovic Buric has been appointed Secretary of the Council of Europe for the award. What are the results? Here I ask you colleagues from HDZ and your secretary, what have been the results since the SDP did not matter, since the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women, Discrimination, what have been the results? Except that we will have to give foreign associations certain amounts instead of investing in Croatia in institutions to protect women. Here I'd like someone to answer me or a secretary or someone who's successful, i.e. Moves in preventing violence against women? I know it's worse. If you have any result, dear secretary, tell me what's better in the Republic of Croatia about violence against women since the Istanbul Convention was adopted. Is that a settled judiciary, is that a Zadar case? Anyone who answers my question, the HDZ who raised their hand claimed when the Istanbul Convention was passed that violence would be reduced, that we would be supervised by some external factors and that we would be forced. If we don't protect women ourselves and weaker as a state, then we're not a state, we're just addicts who we have to pay, if we're not capable of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167958	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167959	Col. Bulj, the Istanbul Convention is just about to require us to make certain steps ourselves that we were unable to make self-initiative before signing, and then ratifications of the Istanbul Convention. In particular, perhaps if there were no Istanbul Convention today, we would not have had any change in the Penal Code and amendments to the criminal procedure that are in favour of the punishment for rape being served, the act of sexual act without consent being treated now again in the Penal Code as rape. In 13 out of 20 counties still form shelters for women, I believe that we will reach that goal at 10,000 2.2 places, hopefully we will get to each region having its own centre of assistance for women. There are some shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167960	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167961	If we are not the legal judiciary itself and we as a body of Parliament bring the strictest laws towards rapists and those who torture the weaker in this case of a woman, I seriously doubt any Istanbul Convention will help us. And I don't think the Istanbul Convention has done anything positive so far, and that's visible from the city where you come from, from Zadar, you see that the Istanbul Convention was just a pamphlet that Andrej Plenkovic covered himself with. You clapped on it and it's your right and you represent it and even I don't blame you for it. But those who said they would never raise their hands to cut it off before, they raised their hand, so they now have the secretary of the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167962	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167963	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. I can't help but get the impression that you mention Zadar several times in your presentation. What is going on in Zadar compared to other parts of Croatia? That's one thing. The second thing, Zadar is not the case, and you have to keep that in mind. And the third thing, we can't talk about the details of the cases either me or you here, so there are certain services that do their job and that will certainly find a solution and see where it all comes from. So I'm asking you when it comes to Zadar's surroundings and the whole county to take it with some backup, and not to call us this way, which is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167964	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167965	Let me tell my colleagues right now, it's not just a question of Zadar, it's a question of all ends. I am only setting you up as a member of the HDZ you got a round of applause when it was the vote of the Istanbul Convention What has this shift in the prevention of rapists been made since the Istanbul Convention was adopted, except that Marijana, Marija Pejcinović Buric, was appointed Secretary of the Council of Europe? What are the measures against rapists, against those who hate women, against all the bad, equalities of women in employment, because they have increased the wages paid by our women in trade chains by foreign countries where they are three times bigger, in foreign countries, in other countries, that pay chains come? Women in the Republic of Croatia have been injured, and HDZ has adopted the Istanbul Convention purely so that it can wave that paper in the EU worse so that they can hold several functions as Secretary of the Council of Europe. I ask you what shifts in any discrimination against women have been made since the Istanbul Convention was voted? Is that what I'm interested in then? All of us who were against Istanbul said we were inhumans [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167966	...college Bull. Before we move to the next debate, we will only have one information or notice that tomorrow before the start of the regular period, means the points of the agenda that we have foreseen, we have amendments or discussions on amendments to today's United Final Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, so at 9:30 in the morning. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167967	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, we are facing today the proposal of the Law on Dismissing and Appointing the Advocate for Gender Equality, we see that Mrs. Višnja Ljubičić named 28 October 2011 to the term of office of the 8th year, that two days ago, her term of office had expired, and that the Government had resolved and proposed to Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic for re-election. It's just like that. The 20th century. We see the Law on Gender Equality that it is prescribed that the Advocate for Gender Equality appoints and resolves HS on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We see it in this term of office, Mrs. President. Višnje Ljubicic said that her work was visible, that she was working with the institutions, the Ombudsman is an independent and independent body that monitors the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and Other Regulations relating to Gender Equality, namely once a year HS submits a report on its work, means the Ombudsman is considering cases of violation of the principle of gender equality, cases of discrimination against individuals or groups of individuals who have committed bodies of state administration and units of local, regional and regional self-government and other bodies with public powers employed by those bodies and other legal and physical persons. Similarly in statistics we can see that over a number of years, that, the largest number of complaints were women on discriminatory behaviour and conduct in all segments of society, meaning 2/3 of these complaints were complaints of women. We also see that almost 56% of the unemployed are women, that in the vast majority of the victims of domestic violence are women, of 78%, 22% are men. We can also see that through a series of research, the Ombudsman has been involved and worked in these areas, which are research into the violation of the right to breast-feed, representation of women and men in management positions, representation of women in companies, the position of mother with young children on the labour market. The equal opportunities that we all together have for gender equality can be done to improve the equality of women, or they are sub-represented in all segments that we see, are local administration, local and regional self-government when we see that we have 428 municipalities, 127 cities and 20 counties, when we are all with gender equality committees working and communicating more for sure and we will move there, here through all the recommendations that the Ombudsman made to HS, according to the units of local and regional self-government, and that it is proposed for another mandate, here we support and, of course, we all must also help her to pay more attention to the equality and sub-representation of women in all segments of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167968	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must personally express my satisfaction with the Government's proposal not to resolve it, but also with the same proposal for the appointment of the current lawyer for gender equality. Višnje Ljubicic to show her that trust in the next, next term. I hope that this decision of the Government has been motivated by real quality work, which I will say for protection, by the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and All Other International Documents on this trail and effort, and even by a lot of successful realisation in the visibility of the institution itself, or the Ombudsman's Institute for Gender Equality in the public as a person and the office to whom the damaged parties can address themselves in case they feel that their rights are being violated on the basis of birth, sex or gender commitment, on the other hand, that they can be sure that this institution or this person will insist on, in those instances where it is necessary to enlighten all individual cases and third, that some initiative will try to raise the level of protection and respect for gender equality rights and parity democracy on a higher level. I hope that when the government proposed to Mrs. Crescent, Višnja Ljubicic that she was actually guided by this, means that what HS has authorized the Advocate-General for Gender Equality for her work, and that her choice is not in fact caused by the fact that the Government is carrying this one burden of a strong political blow to the, attempt to strike or successfully hit independent institutions that have survived a number of lawyers who have been changed in some way, removed and today the president is living for, the President of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, and perhaps this choice is good, and if so, but it would not be good motives, perhaps this choice is conditioned in one part and that under this pressure the government would actually not appoint or attempt to replace and counsel for gender equality caused new resistances in the public. However, I believe that this is what we bring, that is, when we vote on Mrs. Vishnja Ljubicica, most likely tomorrow, we'll do a good thing. Croatia's society continues to struggle with the same or similar problems, there will still be a lot of work before the prosecutor. Women remain in Croatia for equal jobs less paid, women are still sub-represented in management positions, women remain unequal to the development of careers and private lives. I think I respect every woman's personal right to decide on her own private life and I don't think feminism or the struggle for gender equality should be imposing some kind of lifestyle, that we all need to be achieved both careerly and professionally and personally. No, I don't. There are women who only want to be housewives, who want to devote themselves to their families, who want to be mothers, and they need to be given the right to do so, the freedom to choose them. There are women who want to achieve career only, they may not want to be realized in this other area, and they need to be helped, or supported, in the sense that they have the right to choose. However, women who want both society and the legislative framework and the whole social service institutionally from state to local level, there is the biggest challenge, should be allowed to, in that case, if it is her desire to combine and parallelly lead both professional and private life, society must provide it. And there are actually the biggest challenges we've been fighting for years. In some segments we have succeeded, we have managed to move from a dead end, but in some parts we are still coughing and there is a lot of work and I believe that the Ombudsman and in the next term, along with us Assembly MPs, along with all the institutions, will work in this particular area. But what we have a problem with, but it's kind of an impression, and maybe not just an impression that things are still getting worse, is this topic that my colleague Marco was talking about earlier, so that's violence. Not only domestic violence but violence and intimate relationships that do not necessarily have to be tied up or registered as a marriage or legally belong to an extramarital community, there are also peer violence in schools, there are also violence in adolescent relations and relationships and some things, I think, culminating in Croatian society. I disagree with those who believe that the Istanbul Convention is not and will not bear fruit. It has put some challenges ahead of us, and it is up to us to come up with these challenges and start solving things. I think that in the part of the prevention in the education system we have to do a lot more, it's now some kind of creation of how we're going to do it and as a state to solve it. Some shifts when I talk about the fight against violence on the stricter sanctioning of violence we see will soon come before us and parliamentary representatives in the Penal Code, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, I believe that in the very near future we will meet that requirement that the Istanbul Convention put before us is that we have 2.2 seats in a shelter for women and family members. That we do not have only one centre in Croatia that is not a shelter but is a centre for helping women victims of violence, now we have only a safe and women's house to deal with. It is in some way that we have such a center in both Rijeka and Split and Osijek. I believe we'll accomplish that, too. And there's a lot of work actually ahead of us, there's a lot of what we have to do. However, what is not good is that in the Assembly when we have the opportunity to serve certain things and contribute through some actions, public actions, fighting for gender equality, education girls and women, fighting for their equality, but also to prevent violence against women and girls, we do not do or fail to do so. This adds to some strange decision by HS that a conference under the auspices of the Committee on Gender Equality was held in HS, which brought European and Croatian experts in these areas that should have shared examples of good practice from some EU countries, unfortunately held in the Journalist House, rather than in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think that's good, I think we should look at things a little bit wider, we should do what we do in the current affairs of our parliamentary representatives, but we can't be afraid, not afraid of doing certain steps, taking the initiative and doing more than what we're supposed to do or what we're told by some kind of rules or what's in the description of our work, which is discussing laws, voting about laws, proposing certain initiatives, asking questions to ministers was written, being oral, receiving citizens, working with parties, participating in committees. So at least as committees, as Parliament's working bodies, we should do some steps, and that's one news that made me a little sad. I'm not going to politicize here right now, mention how some other parties are going to be held here, I'm going to stick to this, let's not do this anymore. We support every good initiative and try to be open and do small but important steps for each area. Although Višnja Ljubicic's colleague is not elected today, I believe that tomorrow it will be unanimous or large majority, I want a lot of success, endurance in the work, and the government of the Republic of Croatia and the ruling majority want as little pressure on independent institutions as possible, and I also think about the Office of Advocates. Because only by looking the truth in the eye, by facing real problems in society that we face can we solve problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167970	Thank you very much. You have several replicas, so you'll be able to continue the debate in some way. The first line has Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167971	Dear fellow Glasovac, here at the end of your debate you said that you would not enter the hall for other parties that are not Croatian, I remind you that your member of the Hajdas Doncic party, the former HDZ vote also for the decision so that you no longer comment on it or, so, in the party, discuss your position, he represented your party. Just one question I actually wanted to ask briefly, in 2011, your party, or the Government of Zoran Milanovic, asked Mrs. A cherry pet in this place. Is that true? ... It's not? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And Jadranka Kosor, Jadranka Kosor, sorry, sorry... Excuse me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167972	- Mrs. Crescent. Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167973	You see how important it is to me who set who up that I don't even know who the government has set up. Vishnja Ljubicic, and in fact, it should be in this case irrelevant especially for if you somehow wanted to point out that we support her because we named her, I don't know who named her, my colleague Arsenu, says it was the government of Mrs. Kosor but actually it is irrelevant because what should be valorised with the attorneys and in all things is work rather than voting and discussing someone immediately from the initial position of who set up or did not set up and, accordingly, take a positive or negative position which happens very often in this Croatian Assembly and when the law is proposed. Here we are in opposition may have gone with one 20, 30 bill proposals that should have improved the standard of Croatian citizens in certain areas, all of which were rejected. And no one can convince me that they were rejected because they weren't quality, but because we suggested them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167974	Mr. Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167975	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have mentioned numerous examples of gender and gender discrimination and you have put it in the context of the Istanbul Convention and the misunderstanding that the Istanbul Convention is. If I were to use this one pre-modern image that is discriminatory in itself because, why is it discriminatory now you'll see when I use it. I don't understand why the Istanbul Convention is seen as a recipe for a witch's groat. Well, no, the Istanbul Convention isn't some potion that will charm this society with new charms, but the Istanbul Convention is in the function of disdaining the world. This bewitched world, a world of pre-modern, a world of discrimination, a world of witch's groat is a world that has led to us having a problem giving women the right. We have a problem in our understanding that rights we should give to a woman as men, as a society or something. We should let those rights be active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167976	Thank you very much. Ma'am. The voter, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167977	A colleague of Vučetić, you seem to forget that during the course of those great anti-camping campaigns against the Istanbul Convention, when you listened to some speakers, then you got the impression that the Istanbul Convention even said that who would paint like nails, who would go into the bathroom with whom, etc., etc. So when the intentions are bad, when the intentions are to suspend something and stop for some ideological reasons then no means are chosen, and even if those funds are in that case fake news and intimidation and aware of public deception, what among other things is even criminal prosecution. But so this Istanbul Convention is nothing more than help to us, so when there's no self-help, when we can't help ourselves, then we need some kind of outside help, and I take this Istanbul Convention as an aid to force us into helping ourselves where we can't help ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167978	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167979	Thank you very much. So in your presentation you touched a number of things but I think it's very important to touch and say the following. We react every time something happens. So as media attention caused the whole story about raping this girl and the result was an express change and addition of certain elements in the law. That's not good, I think it's good that we reacted but that reaction points to the fact that we just react when something happens. What should systematically, systematically solve the problem, take care, listen to all those appeals that have been warned. In doing so, I must remind myself when the Penal Code was being warned that some elements should be regulated by it. The associations pointed to it, it didn't react. But now that something happens, we always react too late when something happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167980	Answer, ma'am. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167981	Yeah, that's how it happens, ma'am. Dark Taritash, but I'll say better than ever and you have a government where a minister seriously doubts the violence of a highly-positioned HDZ man says it comments on how you're married. You had a mayor in Zadar who, in time, when we were just moving into a fight for gender equality issues, said, no, so Catholic Croats don't beat their wives. So it took us 10, 20 years, and there's these statements that I don't speak chauvinist of Mr. Bandic, so here Mr. Prime Minister is speaking to Mrs. McNally. Esih and some other MPs, there's that, there's this chauvinism still, but as a state, it's for us to admit there's a problem, it took 10, 20 years for some things to confess, open our eyes and start doing something. It's not good to react after the problem happens, but I say it again better than ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167982	Time, thank you very much, time. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167983	Well, here's a esteemed colleague, I'd like to point out that she is, for example, the city of Zadar among the first cities... a few cities in Croatia that have established a safe house for mothers, women who have been abused and in that safe house were even most women who are not from Zadar County, so the problem has already been recognised before the Istanbul Convention that there is a problem and that they respond to it and ensure that they are the same persons and such women and children who have been abused. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this town's stigmatisation and it happens unfortunately everywhere, in all the cities of Croatia and across Europe, but the problem is that there is even violence, how we create and how we raise children, and how from the early age, we continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167984	Answer, ma'am. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167985	Ma'am. Peric, I don't like it when Zadar is perceived and portrayed as a city case because really people in that town didn't deserve it, but you can't fight violence and you have a leader who's convicted of family violence. And you worked with him when you were chieftain and chieftain, and he's been there for 20 years, he's still there. The mayor, the current mayor, your mayor who knocked out the opera singer and has because of that, I mean she didn't say that, these are the things that there are judgments for. You know that and I know that. The fight against violence begins among other things on some symbolic examples and is sent very serious messages by means of which you have in your ranks. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167986	Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167987	Thank you. Dear colleague Glasovac, you are right when you say that this is a serious issue that requires a serious approach, and in this context of your present conference, I would like to underline that it really shows either those who would like to show that there is some kind of conflict between traditional values and let's say these values of post-modern society. They insist on it even though there is no basis for it anywhere. Namely, we will see that the Bible is based on only one word, which is love, and therefore does not exclude the struggle against what is most dangerous in this society, which is that women are in a subordinate position, that women in the labour market are subordinated and that they commit violence on a daily basis and therefore this division is only conditional and serves those who do not want to face this truth as an alibi that does not come between themselves and this conference.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167988	Answer, ma'am. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167989	Women are the majority in society but they are still the majority in all those parameters where we measure inequality against men and it is not natural and it is not normal. I'm glad to hear from your fellow MPs that you're involved in a debate on gender equality issues. I am not a fan of the fact that only women talk about gender equality and that it is perceived as a woman's subject because as long as most men in this Croatian Assembly are in places where they decide not only in the Croatian Assembly, we are without the support of men and their awareness why it is not just a woman's subject but a civilizational, democratic topic, we cannot go forward and we can't go anywhere and we can't do anything. So here's thank you for getting involved, not just in these discussions, not just for you, but for all the colleagues who have become involved, which you care about and what you're doing on our and your equality of any sub-represented sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167990	Thank you very much. In most minorities, it's now a deep conversation could take place but we're moving on with the debate, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167991	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, from the majority who is a member of the minority. Did I say that right? Yes, so I, who am a member of the minority, in the population and most of the sex in the Parliament and minorities by political definition, will be very happy to say something about No, no, absolutely, so you have encouraged this topic of the majority-majority, in traffic terms I am a fat minority of myself and my colleague Boric because we are from the island, there are only 2.3% of us, in some other sense we are in the majority, in some sense we are stronger and the larger minority that is not strong enough so that you have opened a lot of complex questions. [[You're layered.]] First of all, a colleague of the Voice said in her debate that I was not congratulating her on her discharge. A pet. I would congratulate her on the resolution because it means she's done the whole term and according to the Law on Gender Equality, if her report is not accepted, her term ends. Therefore, if someone performs eight years of office, it means that in 8 years, all reports have been accepted, at least as far as the attorney or lawyer for gender equality is concerned. I am saying this because I remember one vote on this prosecutor's report, and I think it was 2016 when the white dots were on this right, so HDZ was then restrained about her report, and I think it was that assembly of the Parliament that lasted a few months because it must have been overrun, it was the ones from Hrast Ilicic, etc., within the HDZ, so they were able to fight that the report was not at least supported. However, here is the last few years, which has improved a little bit, I think even Mr Zekanovic voted in favour of her report when he was at the HDZ Club. I'm not sure, I mean, I didn't notice you weren't. So in that sense, it was a positive shift and a sign that Mrs. Ljubicic to complete his mandate and when the government of the Republic of Croatia proposed her for the next term, I must admit I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that I am now on a rare occasion, so minority, when the opposition will not criticise the government over a government proposal. It happens often, a lot of laws are adopted unanimously but not by them overly, and I'm not going to say important than those that are a little more complex in nature. This could have been one appointment of a more complex nature but, as we can see, it will still get a big, big support for the MPs, which, for example, was not the case with the Ombudsman for children, that is, the law on the Ombudsman for children. And somehow it seems to me that neither the attorney general, the attorney general, when the time comes will be interesting to see how the parliamentary majority will actually be set up because there is a majority of the parliamentary majority that would not, the minority of the parliamentary majority that would, the majority of the parliamentary minority that would be and the minority of the parliamentary minority who would not. Did I get a good analysis?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167992	Everyone figured it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167993	Okay. So if, say, Mr. Radin and the SDSS and others have a greater impact on the decision-making process, Lora Vidovic will remain and if only the HDZ will be left with Lora Vidovic, it would be easier to say. That's probably true of other things. As far as Mrs. Devereaux is concerned. Ljubicic, I must express when we are already talking about the appointment to a new term of satisfaction with the time when we had opportunities to work closely together while I was in the executive power in particular and with her deputy, Mr Selance, when defining the solution in the Life Partnership Act of the same sex person and in implementing the law on gender equality in that part of the political system. There used to be some minor disagreements but only in interpreting regulations rather than in what they should look like. And so I would like to express my satisfaction that the government has submitted this proposal and also express satisfaction with the attorney's work in which it should also be said that she was not prone to her work, I would call it a phenomenon of estradisation. So I looked at her reactions in terms of this last case but also in previous cases where the attorney's reaction was to be heard and indeed all the topics that required the attorney's reaction were, she reacted. Did the media convey anything more than some other people who are still more inclined to do a little leprechaun? It's a different thing now, but from the point of view of the institutions, I believe she did what she had to do. What I still think I want to say to this occasion is that I hope that if it is not already used, it will also take advantage of its power as set out in Article 24. The Law on Gender Equality, as regards the submission of constitutional, the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the law with the Constitution, let's say, as regards the Household Law, if it hadn't already done so, and in that sense it would be one round work worth supporting and commending and looking forward to the next year's reports, and I look forward to the replicas that I've seen it have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167994	You have several replicas. The first replica will be given to you by Mr. Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167995	Thank you. Dear colleague Bauk, today, as you were exposed in the first part, I was glad to have taken and listened to the philosophy of mathematics, so I managed to understand all of your relationships, numbers, size, minorities, but as far as the subject of gender equality and discrimination is concerned, I would like to point out that math here is not worth it because it's not about oneness in mathematical terms, but about oneness in the existential sense, when someone is exposed to violence, when it's discriminated, when there is no equality then the whole of existence is destroyed. It's destroyed if you as a mathematician, if math is everything then the possibility of mathematics itself is destroyed and it destroys society. The society that discriminates against is a society that destroys the whole existence of the one who discriminates because he brought it down to the point he re-edited it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167996	Thank you very much. Answer, do you want to answer? No, I don't. I can say two words about it if you let me, then, about the minority and the majority. It's the minority who has fewer rights. So in South Africa the minority were, there was a colored population and most were whites who were in the thick mathematical minority. It's more or less that. Now let's move on with the replicas, Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167997	My colleagues and colleagues can tell you that I'm just being disgusted by the hypocrisy you're talking to on this subject. You're looking into your eyes... The others you forget, that I've been doing an exhibition on violence, rape in Vukovar, three exhibitions, forgetting that there's no Mrs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pusic, who so emotionally attacked Vica Vukojevic by accusing him of raping a non-existent Muslim woman where to this day, man has suffered certain consequences related to it and you forget that he was sitting there among you and still sitting Mr. Lalovec who had a wife Anastasia who had just filmed what was happening to her because she recorded everything that was happening. You can spread your hands as much as you want, I'm talking about what happened, what happened, and what we all know....../Intruder Radin: Excuse me, Mr. Culey, and we're not going to talk about our wives now, are we? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167998	Please, continue, we'll stop time, we'll bring it back, you have it, but please nice, let's not talk about the family of MPs when they're here or when they're not here. Here you go. [[/Intruder Culey: Can you do that?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u167999	I know it's politically incorrect to talk about who isn't there, especially what's true because the truth hurts. In Croatia, the truth hurts a lot. The fact is that in this Croatian Parliament, many who have explained to us what is wrong and what is wrong with us and many here are sitting here explaining to the Croatian people what is good for them and what is not and we ourselves know how black we are under our nails. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168000	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168001	Thank you. Col. Culey was injured by the Rules of Procedure in the 238th article in which you warned him but you did not say that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, she was a twin, he first injured a fellow who was not present because he was talking about a subject that was not referred to as a subject, it was family circumstances but he also injured the integrity of a parliamentary representative because and where he brought a normative interpretation that did not belong to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168002	Thank you, thank you. I think it's best if we go over it and go to the replica and the replica has, who had the replica, had the replica, the reply to the line, excuse me, Mr. Bauk, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mainly said what I wanted to say in the work concerning our colleague Lalovec, but still to remind you, they gave up the moment those charges came out, the colleague said so to freeze his status and in the party and did not actively participate in Parliament's work when the State's Attorney's Office rejected it, he continued to act normally, and here you said, sit down with you and I promise you that he would sit still, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168004	- Mrs. Crescent. The voter has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168005	Comrade Bauk, you have mentioned that you expect in some way from your colleague the future and current lawyers for gender equality to see what is with that assessment of the constitutionality of the Household Law with constitutional values, or some parts of the Constitution, I expect to implement it in the next period, so I will say the pressure on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a national policy on gender equality, reminding Croatia that there is no national policy for the four-year period since 2015 and national policy is one of the key instruments and elements to combat inequality and to establish mechanisms for empowering women and greater equality in all areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168006	Mr. Bauk, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168007	Thank you. I think the term "execution" is a little inappropriate for her situation because the government can put more pressure on her than it can on the government. Namely, this provision in the Law on Gender Equality which states if the report is not adopted that it is the reason for resolution, puts the Advocate General for Gender Equality and the Ombudsman for Children, in a semi-dependent relationship with the Government, or with the parliamentary majority, and their position is significantly weaker than that of the Advocate General whose mandate does not depend on the adoption of the report. This is one part of the Law and on gender equality and the Ombudsman for children, the Ombudsman for children who should still experience a certain change in terms of their independence a little bit more, but also when the report comes back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168008	Mr. Sagar has his own debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168009	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, first of all, after the eight years of the term of office, Advocate General, it remains to be congratulated on her work for so many years because, as has been said in your previous debate, the issue of independence in the Republic of Croatia is questionable because it is this fact that my colleague Bauk was saying that the failure to adopt the report actually ends the term of office and counsel for gender equality that leads to a situation in which it is difficult to say that she is independent. As a result, her work all these years should be especially welcomed and also given her support for the appointment, she should wish her success in future work. But what I can't take away from the impression is visible on a daily basis is the very fact that even by selecting Mrs. We can't say we're going to do a big job. It seems as picturesque as if we've taken the dots, and we've put everything and everything in them and we've told the lady. Here, now you will solve the problems this society faces every day, i.e. Not society, but weaker members of that society. In this case, it's women, and we expect you to solve these issues. That's not how it works, because it's one job that we can say started, which is increasingly serious, but which is long-term and which needs a lot of perseverance and ultimately, and the Ombudsman needs support in his work, both in the adoption of legal frameworks and in their respect. We could say that the lawyer for gender equality is the last line of defence and dignity and the lives of many women in the Republic of Croatia, so we also see girls who are either suffering violence or experiencing different forms of discrimination. In fact, the market regulates many things and we are in the Republic of Croatia today, many are calling for a market and say that the market will simply focus social relations on improvement. And we really see in developed countries that that's what's happening. However, what happens in the Republic of Croatia? In fact, where the market can't solve things, certain institutions do, or even if we want to end up in these cases, women do. Women in families who care about, whether children or older family members, or those who are sick, who cannot take care of themselves. This is where women come in, and there is an inequality on the market, because these women perform on the market in unpaid work, so they work, a large part of these obligations are done and are not paid for. In rural areas, and so is the area from which I come, it is extremely obvious, but it is not a better picture in the City of Zagreb either. Today I heard information that there are only two mangers in the City of Zagreb. I don't know how much in the Republic of Croatia, I don't have that data, what EUROSTAT warns us is that when we talk about childcare, starting with kindergarten, and taking care of older people, homes for older and powerless people, in the Republic of Croatia, the situation is not good, and that's where women come in, most of the women are the ones who care or fill those holes in society, and that's why they're not paid. Some developed countries have solved this problem because there is an intensity, we see according to EUROSTAT data that there are, that women are employed in so-called. Not full-time, and what's kind of a more developed country is that part of part-time in women is getting bigger and bigger. In the Republic of Croatia, that's not the case. With this, it should be pointed out immediately that part-time is no solution that would permanently be good because it leads to the following imbalances, which is imbalances during women's retirement because incomplete working hours mean less payment of contributions to the Republic of Croatia, in particular, it would be the case and then we get to the next point, which is about the future, and this is the inequality of women during retirement and so what we are up for is in our club as soon as possible to resolve family pensions. Family pensions for two reasons. The first reason is the motivation of women to go in to fight for their place in the labour market because it is not a good message especially in rural areas that social care actually solves their existence, and later they do not have the opportunity to receive a pension other than taking a wife's pension of 70% or in that other case if a woman worked her whole life, and women are less paid if you want both vertically and horizontally as we observe jobs in society, that she has to give up her 40-year pension, if she got up every morning, every working day at 5 a.m., she traveled to work in the rain and in the snow and when she comes to retirement because of these small wages she simply has to say that I've worked 40 years I won't take anything from her husband. Is that fair? This is not fair and in this sense, the Republic of Croatia must take steps and I am saying all of this in the context of Mrs Ljubicic's election because she cannot handle it herself. It's a matter of tax policy. We will have another package of tax laws, tax policy must be such that women can be easier employed and in terms of the reliefs that then occur because the moment a woman is hired, and we talk about less paid jobs then it is considered as an additional income in the household, the censorships are crossed, so it has to be paid additionally, so certain tax thresholds and the state needs to think about it with its own, tax policy with an active approach. Some countries have tackled this by an incentive approach, some countries have resolved smaller pensionisation, and we should consider introducing such, such and tax policies and employment policies that would allow women to be better placed. Projects themselves, programmes such as the "Walk" or the "Help in the House" programme are not enough, they are briefly solving something, but they introduce even more problems in the long term than we wanted to solve in the beginning. So, all of these problems are also in front of Mrs Ljubicic, she is probably on the last line of defense meeting daily in her work with people who are talking to her for help, but in order to solve these problems systematically, so we need first and foremost here in the Croatian Parliament, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the executive government, to work harder to solve these problems. And of course I touch third, third levels of government, third types of government, judicial authority. There are many errors of many worrying decisions of the court, it is not up to us to comment on court decisions, but we can at least conclude that many of these decisions do not give us optimism that violence or that it will be sent to society that violence is unacceptable, that it will be punished most strictly because precisely for these reasons where women appear, where, where women are most employed, whether it is education, whether it is a health system, whether it is another system, there are wages and the lowest, there are below averages in the Republic and where there is no economic freedom or economic independence there is no other kind of freedom and there is a good polygon to wage violence. And if the victim does not have adequate protection, if he does not have the right protection, if he does not expect it and if he suspects he will get it then she does not even answer to it anymore, it remains in secret because it would encourage him to report if she was later exposed to another type of abuse that his colleague Vučetic was talking about, or even irresponsible journalists, who then do even more damage to the victim himself with their approach. So, Mrs. Ljubicic, I want a lot of success in her work, and it's up to all of us to help her in her work and help her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168010	The first replica of Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168011	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Žagar, you mentioned Mrs Ljubicic's work on several occasions, I think it should be made clear that her work is extremely good, clearly saying that it is not easy for her. I must admit that I was very, very concerned that she would not decide to continue for the next eight years, but what we should say when we get a report on her work, through the work report, she points to all the problems. And it certainly assesses the work of both individual ministries within the government and certainly those ministries are not very comfortable to see through the report what they did well or poorly. And because of the need to once again point out that it's one, so the whole team is doing great, she's the first on that team, it's not easy for them and it won't be easy for them and support them further in the work of the attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168012	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168013	Very short. My colleague Mrak Taritash, of course, should underline Mrs Ljubicic's work, and somehow, if I may say so, I'm surprised she made up her mind for eight years. I wish her a lot of success, and it's certainly not a simple job, and she's going to need a lot of strength, a lot of will, enthusiasm and the fight against all forms. And of course, that you're right that it's not very nice to many when she takes a stand, when she criticises, I want what's braver and more doing, and her reports show that many recommendations are increasingly listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168014	The second line is Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168015	Dear colleague Sagar. So, I agree with most of your debate, especially as far as you're concerned, what you're saying about the social aspect of women and their position on the labour market. However, I point out one problem that I fear the lawyer was not sufficiently concerned with, which is equal parenting. So, I have participated in a lot of tribunes, an association for equal parenting, and here our country unfortunately has no equal parenting institute as it has other developed countries, for example, because the EU's recommendations are to go towards equal parenting. And we have a large number of conflict divorces and masses of men, so husbands, fathers have reported that they can't see their child even though they don't have any application for domestic violence, psychological violence. They live next door to their ex-wife, and I can't see the kids because that's what the court decided because there was a conflicting reason, that's their constitutional right. That's one taboo you're not talking about, and that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168016	Thank you very much, Mr. Sladolev. Mr. Sagar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168017	Dear colleague of Sladolev. I'll try one example. So, Finland has introduced a very good model when we speak, if I'm going to say it correctly, of parental leave where the Finnish law obliges father to also use parental leave. In this way, what you're saying has leveled both parents legally because then a less possibility is created for women to be exposed during parental leave to a lower salary and ultimately to smaller contributions because that is what men are involved in. And that's how the message is sent that they're equal in front of the law. And these extreme cases of yours really aren't good, and in this sense, in this case, it's either fate power or who should put forth efforts to make these things even if not in these most difficult cases of divorce, and not that it's happening that the father is discriminated against in terms of child care if I get it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168018	And in the end, Mr. Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168019	Thank you. Your esteemed colleague, your argument had a double character. In the first part, you talked about what all the counselors of gender equality do and do, and there is again what I said about what must really be divine in that woman. For what? Because a normal person cannot stand to face such forms of negative reality every day. In the report, we meet once, twice a year, in literature someone who is professionally engaged meets more often, but the lawyer for gender equality meets on a daily basis with these negative realities in Croatian society and this negative reality can be partially removed in this second part of your exposure, which is by introducing some part of the compensation through family pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168020	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168021	Thank you. Col. Vučetić, the attorney-in-law constantly encounters problems, so when he finds a solution to the problem then he causes new problems to someone else, in this case it was the authorities and someone else, a little picturesque to express ourselves. The truth is, so she's constantly faced with problems and I say she's the last line of defense because when she comes, then you can see how much society has missed its role. Society needs these things to be resolved at first, it won't be, we won't be employed or put in an equal position on the labour market just, just by principle approach, it needs to be a systematic approach. You see, what happened in the world of sports and famous tennis player Djokovic got hooked on it, and he even supported that tournament organizer who said dead cold that women should kneel and thank the tennis players every day for their success because they were paid so much. So in order for women to be equally paid as men needs more, they're going to need a lot more fighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168022	Let's move on with the individual debates, Mr. Zekanovic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168023	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, counselors, so we can't fully analyze your work here for the past 8 years, but there are some key points, some key thoughts, some key topics that have been taken over in the last 8 years. Shaked Croatian society. I'll single out two, first I'll ask you about your attitude. The 62nd Croatian Constitution, so here you can answer me immediately whether you still think the decision is discriminatory, that marriage should be a community exclusively of women and men, or maybe you've changed your mind? What's interesting here, here I was really a little wrong considering that you were elected in 2011 then actually in 2012 the SDP came to power, I thought at one point you were SDP's cad, but no, but you're HDZ's cadre, though, I won't say HDZ's because in HDZ we have really honorable individuals, but when Jadranka Kosor, when Jadranka Kosor, right? Is Jadranka Kosor, at the time of Jadranka Kosor chosen? [[I'm not a lawyer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168024	Let's go, please let's move on, let's move on, let's move on. Can we move on?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168025	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168026	We can, can we move on?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168027	But isn't that you? Oh, no, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168028	Can we move on?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168029	I, well, well, well, I don't know you very well, I'm looking at a little bit of my...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168030	Mr. Zekanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168031	Excuse me, excuse me. Okay, well, I've never met you, I'm sorry, it's not you, well, well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168032	As far as I recall, you are the only one selected, Mr. Zekanovic, as I recall you are the only one selected on HDZ lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168033	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168035	So, even so... If she was black, you were blue, so I felt a little unusual, but I thought women were changing the hair color that you're here, but here I'm going back on the subject, it'll be clear to everyone. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear President HS don't get in my word, play nice with your fingers if you're bored or sing about the salt soap in you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168036	Mr. Zekanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168037	Thank you to your colleagues for warning us that it wasn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168038	I'll stop you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168039	But don't stop me, it's my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168040	No, I'm going to stop you because you're always having sex with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168041	But...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168042	Don't pollemize with me, I'm just here to chair you, nothing else, polymize with the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168043	Can I tell you something now, sir?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168044	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168045	And you dare me?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168046	Go on with the subject, or else you'll get another warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168047	Well, I'm not plimising with you, but with me, dear Vice President HS...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168048	Please go on, don't pollemize with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168049	...and please allow me to continue my topic. So the key question is, the key question is the attorney general how is she, which is her position on, which is her view on art. 62. The Republic of Croatia Constitution where marriage is a community of women and men? As I recall, her position here was extremely clear, she was against this, against this. But here's what I'm going to repeat a little bit of my thought to make it clear anyway, so since she was chosen by HDZ or Jadranka Kosor, and given her views on this referendum where, at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, she was the main advocate or opponent to get into the law, I have to admit that here are not the clear today's HDZ people sitting here, who at the time in Tomislav Karamarka were later working and trying to make the referendum issue go away, so it's a little confusing for me. The other thing is very important, and it's very important, so the attitude around the Istanbul Convention, I know that most HDZs voted for it, all of the SDPs, there was actually a clap on each other when the Istanbul Convention was adopted, but... well, it was a clap, and on the one hand or on the other or both, I'm interested in clean here again I'd like to hear her say about the Istanbul Convention and that gender ideology. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] She mentioned herself here today in HS a little bit of the Istanbul Convention, so everyone says there's no gender ideology in it, however there is. And I'm going to tell you a very nice example for all those who didn't know, here's my colleague Vučetic, a colleague of the Voice here might be a new moment for you, so maybe you can ask something. Croatian counties are looking at the competition for the project "We Can Equally" in which they invite children of lower grades to secondary schools to send drawings, photographs, videos that raise awareness of gender equality, sex stereotypes and gender discrimination. The term gender discrimination stems from the concept of gender which forms the basis of gender ideology and which is legally defined in the Istanbul Convention. The county guide came from the Office for Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which secured the money, the tender was published on the Croatian Community of County and was taken over by a large part of the county and schools, etc., etc. So, if there are no gender ideologies in Istanbul, there's, here's one proof because this particular competition is also being called to the Istanbul Convention and among other questions that are asking children, it's good to imagine that if you're a male woman and you're a woman, and you're a man and the next question goes, and what you really are, or what you want to be. It is now slow, not slowly, but through this competition enters the educational system, and this convention defends ours, meaning Advocate Višnja Ljubicic, it defends her. So, she won't have my vote for, unfortunately, saying that most or all of my HDZ colleagues will support it, as well as SDPs to whom it corresponds, in fact, to this person who has their worldview, one liberal worldview, I will repeat, I will stress to all those who are in doubt how to vote, that Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic, who has black hair, was therefore against the referendum issue that the life union of women and men is exclusively a marriage and that she was a great advocate of the Istanbul Convention and that is a problem and that is not good. If we choose people by the key things that have this attitude, of course they will also lead such a policy. Of course he's going to lead such a policy, so we're going to be as we already are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168050	Mrs. Voter, that's your third, you can do it. Third replica. ... It means the last one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168051	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, all the absurdities of your approach to this subject are contained in the fact that you know that you will not vote for an old-new lawyer, and you have no idea what that woman looks like, or what she did and works at the D.A.'s office. You're here asking questions to the ministry lady you don't even know what the D.A. looks like, but what you know from when you were born but from some point in your life is that you should be against it. First you wanted to look for a reason for being set up by the SDP, then when you found out it was HDZ, it was also good enough for you. It is so pathetic and pathetic for a parliamentary representative that such impulses are led in voting and in debates that I no longer have words.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168052	Mrs. Voter, thank you. Time. Mr. Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168053	... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168054	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168055	So, in 238, my colleague, I am not or will ever say that you are poor and miserable and that you speak miserablely and miserablely, so I believe that Rule 238 has been broken. Here's so much on my side.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168056	You know what I didn't realize, but everything's fine. Go to the replica, please. Go to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168057	Do you need an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168058	Go to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168059	Would you like to warn your colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168060	No, no, I won't warn anyone. Go to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168061	So, here's the deal. Dear colleagues, it's more important to you what someone looks like, so it's more important to you what someone looks like than what key topics he represents. Well, it's just the opposite of me. I don't know, and I see a little bit less, and I really don't remember ever seeing it, maybe I am a lawyer, and so I replaced it. Yeah, and mea culpa, I was wrong, and I could actually Google and see what the D.A. looked like, and I did, and it was kind of weird how she changed her hair color. But it's more important to me than you who don't have a problem, you have no problem representing someone, it's more important to me that someone represents unlike you who cares what someone looks like. It doesn't matter to me if she has blond hair, whether she has black hair, but I care about these two key topics because it breaks Croatian society. Was she that marriage was a community of women and men and I'll repeat whether it was for the Istanbul Convention, and it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168062	Thank you very much. Mrs. Voter, I'll give you my word, but let me get this straight. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? What article and why?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168063	That's right. Article 238, he insulted me, saying my intelligence was important to me what the lawyer looked like, not what she was doing. And he doesn't even know what she looks like, I know what she looks like and what she does and what she does. And he just read somewhere, something whispered to him not to work according to the ideology he represents, and he immediately had a red cloth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168064	Mrs. Glasses, I must give you a warning. You don't have to. I have to give you a warning. I'm sorry, but it wasn't an object. Mr. Djujic has the same rule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168065	So, article 239, Mr. Vice President, was injured. You should have warned your colleague Zekonovic before, so be consistent. You said that the violation of the Rules of Procedure for which he appeared was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you should have told him about it in article 239. And since you're not to him then I think you've given your colleague the Voter an unwarranted warning. Therefore, I ask you for a uniform criterion or withdraw a reminder to your colleague, Glasovac, or give it to your colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168066	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, thank you very much. Now let me explain why it was like that. Because Mr. Zekanovic actually said in his speech you think, he pulled the problem looks, and it was misunderstood in my opinion by Mrs. Glasovac. I'm sorry, you don't know what you look like. You don't know what you look like. And now let's not get any funny if we move on with that debate, I'm sorry. We're going to be comical, and let's be comical.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168067	Let's be comical, so you didn't understand me. I did not mention what my colleague Zekanovic was saying, nor did I refer to his speech, but to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that he had raised before his speech. It was one after another, so maybe you didn't notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168068	Mr. Djujic, since you haven't mentioned any article now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168069	Article 239.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168070	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168071	Article 239.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168072	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now you're getting a warning. And now I'm going to tell you why you're getting a warning. Because a colleague of the Voice gave a breach to the Rules of Procedure for mentioning the look, and the look was mentioned. I'm interrupting the hearing about the lawyer's appearance. Enough, enough, I won't do it anymore. No, no, please report to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Let's move on. Mr. Bull, go ahead. ... The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. We're not gonna talk about the problem looks like a future attorney, that's what I decided. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What do you say? I'll give you five minutes. For 20 minutes now, I've been thinking about giving me five minutes of break-ins: but before that, you have to give me your word. [[...and in 5 minutes break and then we'll see how it goes...]] It's the 16th.06 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168073	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,10 HOURS]] Now Mr. Marko Vučetic will speak. There's another one, wait, wait, there's a Bull, there's a Bull, there's a Bull. I'm sorry, Mr. Bully has a replica yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168074	I don't think anything is defined, I just wanted to tell my colleague Zekonovic that Mrs. Attending is not a lawyer, but we discovered it during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168075	You won't answer? No, I don't. All right, let's move on. Mr. Marko Vučetić will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGE and finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168076	Thank you. Well, this kind of dialectic between surpluses and deficits of attention has led to every word, and especially final in this case is pointless, but it is still necessary to say something and to conclude these discussions that were pointless. What is meaningful is that we choose a lawyer who has done well and who has an obligation to continue to work well and that this should be well recognized in society. What was pointless was, for example, what I was already saying was that those who declared the Istanbul Convention a source of gender ideology and today showed that experts for invisible beings are experts because they see gender ideology where it is not, and that amateurs are for visible beings because they see one who is not there instead of who is there. And that's now I have empirical proof that, that gender ideology is exclusively intended for experts on invisible beings, so let them live in that world and unfortunately when it's translated into what's not there, so that those who are there don't see it, then we enter the realm of a social sadness and the inability to develop society. I repeat the Istanbul Convention, and I've already talked about it on several occasions, but now I'm going to try to be clear. It's not a document to end violence, it's a document to expose violence as a global problem, violence against women. After two years, we realized that the use of gender is not ideology. We can shut down all languages, we can shut down sociology as social science if our family is a category that has ideological meaning. I have a scientific meaning and gender primarily means that someone is playing some kind of role. When it comes to the role of the Ombudsman's wife, she is faced with the fact that society is a man, an institution, an employer, that they have prescribed what role it should be. We're fighting it. There's no pre-set role, and there's no role that anyone else is going to tell a woman what she's supposed to be doing. A woman or performs as a free entity who is completely free in her act or performs as a free entity who is subjected to discrimination and violence because of freedom, the third simply does not exist. The lawyer faces this discrimination and violence that has been committed because someone thinks that a woman has failed to perform the role that a woman has to play, or that she belongs to a particular role, which is the role that she must not vote in the elections several decades ago, that she must not have the same salary as men, that she must not now have equal working and legal status and a lot of it. So we're dealing with something like that in our thinking and our society needs to be this is almost at the cry level. Our society should be a society that respects all differences. From these debates that were so far, they were in their final phase of meaninglessness because of the attack on religion. It cannot be required in the laws, in the legislation of a secular state, that the state take over religious dogma or religious views. It's just not possible. I ask the question why someone has such a weak faith that it's not enough to be in communication with their deity but to demand that the laws outside be bound. The second question I ask, which is why such people have the perverse pleasure that such laws should oblige all those who are not and do not belong to any religious system. The state is not a religious creation, but the state guarantees religious freedom, and we need to enable religious freedom, freedom of women, freedom of men, freedom of parliamentary representatives, freedom of those beings who are experts in the invisible beings and the freedom of those beings who see as they see who they don't see who they think they see. This should enable all of us to be free and prevent the violence arising from the false, pathological, perverse notion of freedom. That's what this D.A. does, this D.A. is doing, and that's what this D.A. is gonna do, and that's why she's got my support, and she's got one ampathy because of everything she remembers in her business as a negation. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168077	Mr. Miro Bulj also speaks finally on behalf of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168078	Thank you very much. Dear secretary with her co-worker, colleague and colleague are here, ahead of us a proposal for a decision on the re-election, i.e. The resolution and appointment of Advocate General Višnja Ljubicic, however, of course when we talk about gender equality, we must also talk about the effects of what this assembly has brought on the effects of the entire state, all those in charge of gender equality, essentially what is happening. I'm a little bit at the beginning of my speech. The individual speech said that it was unimaginable for me that someone here at HS was exclusively boasting about conventions like Istanbul until we had no effect on the issue. I even asked the secretaries, all MPs, especially those from the HDZ, the SDPs always represented what the effects of the Istanbul Convention? I don't know any effect that's positive except for what's worse. We have an unsettled judiciary that in the case of Daruvarc in the beating of a girl, where a urinal breaks her head, where the first-degree verdict decreases in that case and a number of other cases, it was the most recognizable. Therefore, the key question here is what is, what are the results of the Istanbul Convention other than what is Mrs. Pejcinović Buric becomes Secretary of the Council of Europe? Is it some kind of, are we as a state ready, that's important, to protect women from violence? No one is for violence, but no one and I respect all those who have voted out of their worldview or any other vote in favour of the Istanbul Convention as well as those who are against, I have voted against, and I will stress that, but that someone raises their hands exclusively and only to court European officials, not to solve the problem if we do not have the results of the Istanbul Convention, we do not, from tomorrow we will pay Grevia which we are part of sovereignty. Letting some association, and our state is not able to do so is obviously much more important to this government how to get in touch with European officials than to arrange for the state and protect this case and the women and we haven't protected them from the Istanbul Convention, which is a fact, it was just a pamphlet that was good for waving to European officials that we could praise our Prime Minister burns to Junker, Tusk, Tajani, Vucic, his partners how he brought it, how he was advanced, and in fact, in reality, it's a disaster. That your colleagues from HDZ, that there are no results, no effect, the esteemed secretary has no effect, the lawyer has stood behind the Istanbul Convention, come to the pay phone and let him publicly tell Andrej Plenkovic what he has fulfilled. What is it that the Istanbul Convention has reborn besides what we know is violence is violence, is if someone hits Sabine, a colleague, of course it's violence, that we're going to jump and that we're going to stop it, of course, or any of our colleagues here, so who's for violence? However, declaring people who say the triba to edit the system, our judiciary to function, that the system is working, our system, but it does not work, it is a fact, it is a fact, I really expected the secretaries from you answers, and I didn't get that pamphlet from the convention that is voted here is exclusively for the tuning of European halls and certain functions that will be given to the listeners of Tajani, Vuker, Junker, Merkelice and those, that is why you did not protect our women, our women who work in trade chains, who are owners of foreigners, have three times less salaries than their wives, can't be on the toilets, they have to be in diapers, that, that is true, they are their slaves, is that equality in the EU women, is this equality, is we want to talk about, of course we don't talk about what a woman has 2,500,000 kn, and in countries where they't have to pay for 5 years's money, so we don't have to pay, so we don't have to pay for Europe't have a lot, so we't have to pay for Europe't have to pay for Europe's money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168079	Mr. Zekanovic also finished on behalf of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Glanović, Mr. Glasnović and Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168080	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore we are talking about the resolution and appointment of the Ombudsman for gender equality, I will repeat some of the thesis that I had in the individual debate. Here, I have to say, it's not a replica, but given that my colleague Bulj spoke before me, I have to look a little bit at his, his exposure, I'm glad my colleague Bulj that you defended the Istanbul Convention from this pay phone, I'm really glad that you and your colleague, Sladoljev and Dobrović, in the same way as before 2nd. were a little stronger here when the Istanbul Convention was defended, but I am truly glad, I knew before that you were in the soul for this thing, now I am glad that you are out loud here and it is good and it is good, and I am glad that Marko Vučetic that he, as he has voted and he has not been and has not been before, and not now, is not now for what Croatian sovereigns and Croatian people think, so I am glad that the cover is falling, I am glad that a little position is changing, it is not bad. And what I would stress here again is two thesis, two things, people aren't more important by appearance, I guess, so we don't distinguish them by appearance, I trust it to no one on the left, and neither does it matter from the center, the left center, so what matters is the key things, and the key is I'm going to say about Mrs. Višnja Ljubic said that at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic when HDZ led him in Karamarko, he was in opposition and worked with the air to change the Croatian Constitution, he worked with the air to change the Croatian Constitution in a way through a referendum to enter the Constitution that marriage is exclusively a community of women and men, right, Mrs. Višnja Ljubic. Višnja Ljubicic was also against HDZ and HDZ and Karamark and against 800,000 people who signed the referendum issue at the time, she was against it and now I'm interested in where this, this HDZ, has broken down, where this has changed, where now suddenly people who are politically antipods to that original idea of HDZ, that Tudjman's HDZ demochristian how can they suddenly change the story? And that's what matters. I know that most colleagues, unfortunately, again, mean I'll say for myself, but in fact, the SDPs also voted half of the Most sheep, irrelevant now, for the Istanbul Convention, but it matters to me. It's important to my colleague Bulju, it's important to my colleague Dobrovic, it's important to his colleague, Sladoljev. Was anyone in the Istanbul Convention or was it against her? And Mrs. Devereaux. Višnja Ljubicic was for the Istanbul Convention. And that's the key difference in politics, the key difference in choice, and that's the problem. So by leaving such a person in this place we'll have one consenting political role, a woman left liberal, left liberal. If that's the face of today's HDZ, okay, that's the face of today's HDZ. But I see actually there is now a synchronization actually between this part and this part of the assembly on these key topics shared by Croatian society. There are only a few of us who have seen it, this difference, here it is, my colleague Bulj and I are on the one hand, and you've stayed on the other side. And we know where it's going, you know where it's going, right? And that's not good. That's not good. It is not good that that party that should be anti-SDP actually votes politically, co-operates and responds to the same people who have a political stance, which does not correspond to the original HDZ. Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168081	This one, after all, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168082	Oh, thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Zekanovic's in his moment. Art. 236 [[/Intruder: Which article?]] 238, excuse me. [[236, always the one, right?]] He hurt an article in the part where he said [[238, okay, what? /]] No. No. If it were me, I'd change my mind about me and my colleagues. [[/Intruder: Anyway.]] My colleague, when it thundered and when it was to fight for the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and when it was to be spoken, I was always where it should be, always. When there was a referendum, an example I'll tell you about marriage, a definition It should be emphasized... [[Time, sir, time, Mr. Bull.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168083	Mr. Bull, sir, no. Mr. Zekanovic expressed his position. And he didn't say anything that wasn't, which can be qualified as a lie. Your attitude. Okay, and say, but here you go, which article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168084	Oh, easy, buddy. 238. So, colleague Bulj, I've told you something from a pay phone with one great empathy and respect and I've expressed my satisfaction with your performance today. And that's me, I'll repeat my words, if you've understood the name, I'm wrong, I'll explain. I'm glad that you were defending the Istanbul Convention today, and it was only wrong for me that you and your colleagues might not have stayed simple, it was your position, I understand, and at the time when it broke down, you didn't have, like, a little bit more heat, but all 5 of it, it's a great honor for you to take your stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168085	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. Good thing you're on the same side against everyone else because if you weren't on the same side, I don't know what would happen, right? From what I understand, you're on the same side, and the others are the opposite. Okay. Let's move on. We end the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168086	We are now going to: (a) Proposal for a decision to resolve the Ombudsman for gender equality, and (a) Proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer for gender equality. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First of all, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve the Ombudsman for gender equality. Please, let's vote. I find that with a majority of 98 votes for and 1 abstentions, a decision has been taken to resolve the prosecutor for gender equality in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Second or (b) I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer for gender equality. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 92 votes for and 6 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of a lawyer for gender equality in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168087	And we're heading for the final hearing point, according to the last debate tonight, this afternoon. This is a debate on: - Environmental status report in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2016. It's a long time. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a break. Here you go. But I can just finish it off and then? You got it. Well, then, if you knew what you'd be consulting about, you'd think. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 58 Environmental Protection Act, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection and before we speak to the applicant, we will give the word to Mr Dobrovic to tell us why he raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168088	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, i.e. Chairman, I'm going to beg for a break on behalf of the Independent Lists Club. So we will now discuss the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia. One important part is the waste management sector that is definitely skating in Croatia in a chaotic state. So waste management is exactly the sector facing which is the highest expectations and opportunities for repairing society in terms of environmental and resource protection, however, it goes in a completely different direction. We have unusual situations, and instead of creating raw materials from the waste, it remains garbage, instead of circular economy, we have absurdities, irresponsibility, discrimination, clientelism and guessing. Why can we define it like that today and thus qualify this state? See what happens in Croatia, we have a decision to close the dump without predetermined, a healthy alternative offered. This includes the State Inspectorate, which orders the unit, ordering the local self-government unit to act absurdly and erroneously, of course, in violation of their constitutional right to self-government. We also have a famous regulation that evens out what isn't equal and where the most vulnerable groups, they're single, they're small craftsmen, they're small households, they're going to have a big pick-up, and they're going to have a relief. Look at the capital. Look, in our European Metropolis, the mayor runs the system through three interesting words, lead away, land and shut up. I think we all have to imagine each other. [[Thank you very much. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168089	You'll speak for the club and you'll be able to continue your debate. Ten minutes means 16.50 to 16.40. Ten minutes break, so you can consult Mr. Bull. It's 4:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,40 HOURS]] Does the rapporteur, the applicant, want to give an additional explanation? He's with us... No, first of all, should I ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Mr. Mile Horvat is with us and he will give us an explanation of this three-year report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168091	Thank you. I will present here a review of a very complex document called the Proposal for an Environment Report in the Republic of Croatia for 2013. – 2016 by the then Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and completed it in mid- 2018, 2018. It is a document that has almost 500 pages and is very studio and complex. According to the cited law or the Environmental Protection Act, the report has been adopted for a period of 4 years and so far such 3 reports have been adopted. The latest report by the Croatian Parliament adopted on 20 March 2015. It should be noted that data for the production of this and similar comprehensive reports are always available at a time interval of at least 2 years. This is due to the availability of data, e.g. for climate or energy, and the use of generally accepted data processing methodologies, their verifications and evaluations. For these reasons, in the event of this time-out, there are also similar global European and national reports from EU Member States. Namely, this report was made according to the European Environment Agency's environmental assessment model, according to this official methodology. The proposal for a report considers the impact of 10 sectoral burdens on the environment, the situation for 7 environmental constituents and evaluations of the general environmental protection policy and the integrated theme, brings an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures which were applicable during the observed period for the purpose of achieving the objectives set out. The document also provides conclusions and recommendations for improving the state of the environment, which is based on data from a total of 247 environmental indicators. The component of the territory and the population of the work is concluded that in Croatia a total of 160,000 hectares and about 3% of the total land area of the country are permanently covered. The most represented are forest and semi-natural areas with 55% and agricultural areas with about 40%. Protected areas include 8.5% of the total area of Croatia, while the ecological network 36.7% of the land and 15.4% of the coastal sea. Even during this reporting period, the objectives of the political development of Croatia have not been met. The trend of leaving the rural area continues, the population is getting older and this kind of demographic movement increases the risk of social addiction. Mine suspected areas are still present, in 2016 there were about 468 km2 under mines. In the energy component, the supply of energy from its own sources was about 55% and is largely dependent on water power, which has a significant impact on the state's energy independence for hydrologically unfavourable years. Activities have been carried out to diversify energy sources with stronger integration of renewable energy sources. Although a significant trend in energy production has also been achieved by renewable energy sources, such as the sun and wind energy, bioply, liquid fuels and geothermal energy, which have increased 23% annually and water power by 8.5% year-on-year. This also affected the increase in the share of renewable energy production compared to previous years, with around 45% above the EU average of around 20% of renewable energy sources in 2016. The large untapped potential of obtaining energy from renewable sources is waste from household and service sectors, and that is, which is mostly biodegradable waste. The building sector is the largest individual energy consumption. In fact, 90% of total energy consumption includes the construction sector, and energy efficiency measures aimed at economic, energy and environmental savings were implemented intensively in this area. During this reporting period, industry has recorded recovery of industrial production and progress in monitoring and reducing the release of polluting substances into the environment from the industrial sector in order to introduce new EU measures and regulations and to apply the best available techniques and work of the plant in 2014 the industrial strategy of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted since 2014-2020, which directs new industrial policies, modern, high-tech industries and the service sector and the environment. In the transport component, it is important to note that even during this reporting period, road traffic in cities is intense, and once again there is no introduction of sufficient combined transport. The average age of registered vehicles in 2016 was even 13.7 years. The projects for the renewal of rail and river transport infrastructure are not more environmentally acceptable to the desired dynamics. The consumption of diesel fuel is increasing, which is less acceptable in view of the protection of air quality. In 2016, 68% share, we had a 68% share, hence reducing emissions of all polluting substances into the air from the transport sector. Although alternative energy sources are increasingly being used in transport, there is still no way of talking about their significant share and the positive effects of application. The number of extraordinary events in transport affecting the environment has been reduced by almost half. Since, in 2016, the major transport of dangerous substances accounted for seaports, as much as 42%, it is necessary to continue the implementation of preventive safety measures and measures to protect the marine environment and nature. Economists in the fisheries industry without a significant 1% share in GDP, however, fishing is an important feature of traditional life in the coast of Croatia that needs to be preserved. Compared to the previous reporting period, the situation in certain parts of the Adriatic in terms of the condition and number of the population of the advent species is much more favourable. There is a steady growth of production in aquaculture, and breeders use maritime goods through a concession system with mandatory compliance with environmental protection rules. The freshwater aquaculture was in decline because the basic conditions, which were climate conditions and water availability, were not satisfactory. In agriculture, agricultural land is increasingly being used in accordance with the principles of state and agricultural production. The share of areas under organic agricultural production compared to the area of agricultural land used increased from 2.6 in 2013 to 6.1% in 2016 Accordingly, the number of agricultural holdings dealing with organic production increased from 1600 in 2013 to 3 and 600 in 2016. This Regulation Croatia had about 543 thousand hectares of agricultural land under agricultural environmental measures, a share of 35% compared to used agricultural land. The total national greenhouse gas emissions of agriculture accounts for 15%. The greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture have been reduced by 33% compared to baseline 90, due to emission reductions policy, but also to reduce the volume of agricultural production, in particular livestock agricultural production. In forestry in 2016, the share of forest areas within protected areas was 17%, under the nature of 2000 about 50%, and the assessment refers to state forests. From a biological and ecological point of view, the state of the forest in Croatia is one of the best in Europe. However, the dominant burdens for the absence of rainfall, high temperatures and extreme weather events, which were particularly extreme in 2014, which, together with other factors, caused significant damage to the wood mass. The total area of fire in 2016 was 7 thousand hectares, and the share of fire-fighting areas was as much as 96%. The total amount of waste produced in 2016 in Croatia was 5 million tonnes and 1.2 tonnes per capita respectively. The largest share of total waste produced is waste from the construction sector, as much as 25% and household waste as 22%. In 2016, 392kg of municipal waste per capita was produced, which places Croatia among the countries with the lowest quantities of municipal waste. Mixed municipal waste is still the largest part of municipal waste, 76% in 2013 and 74% in 2016 respectively. In 2016, biodegradable waste accounted for around 64% of total municipal waste. A positive assessment is made of the increase in recovery and the reduction in waste disposal. During this reporting period, 47% of production and municipal waste was recovered compared to 30% in 2012 and care procedures, e.g. burning or non-energy use and disposal on landfills, 53% of waste was taken care of while in 2012 it was 70% and is considered a significant shift. The amount of municipal waste in recycling yards increased in 2016 from 13 thousand tonnes to 24. In the observed period, the number of recycling yards increased from 52 to 71. From 2008 to 2016, the number of dumps recovered increased from 63 to 186. The resolution is under way for 28 of them, and 91 of the dump has been prepared. This reporting period also increased the financing of projects in the waste management area from 177 million kuna in 2013 to 225 million kuna in 2016 The coverage of the population by collecting municipal waste for a number of years is 99%, but still one quarter of local self-government units does not organise the separation of useful fractions from municipal waste. The paper, glass, plastic and metal are minimally separated. This reporting period has made progress in all waste management systems and special progress is seen in the electrical and electronic waste system, so-called waste management systems. e-Waste. In packaging, special attention should be paid to achieving the objective of recovery of construction waste. In 2016 40% recovery of total construction waste was achieved through final recovery procedures. The goal by 2020 is to be 70% and waste oil management from wastewater purifiers, in line with the priorities highlighted in the documents for the circular economy in the Republic of Croatia, is to initiate activities on important topics and this waste from food and marine waste. As regards air pollution and climate change in 2016 emissions of major pollutants compared to the base 1990s recorded a reduction trend. By considering air quality data it can be said that air is mostly clean or slightly polluted or that the first categories of pollution are, while in certain urban industrial areas other categories are polluted. In the Republic of Croatia, action plans for 6 cities, Zagreb, Sisak, Kutin, Osijek, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod have been built in the period from 2013 to 2016. In accordance with the amendments to the Protocol, measures and activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are successfully implemented, except that more attention should be paid to the conservation of lawns and forest land as the most significant categories of land needed to mitigate climate scales, an increase in the share of renewable energy sources has been recorded during this reporting period. One of the most effective instruments for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the European Emissions Trading System in which the Republic of Croatia was involved in 2013. and which is working successfully at the moment. The water economy and the sea according to the average water balance area of Croatia, Croatia, Croatia, Croatia, has sufficient quantities of water, but due to the marked spatial and time imbalance of the distribution of water systems, it is unfavourable. During this reporting period, the share of the population's involvement in public water supply systems increased from 82% to 86%, therefore significant water losses in the public supply system, which averages as much as 49% in 2016, increased the number of municipal waste water treatment devices from 117 in 2012 to 148 in 2016. As for tourism, cities, settlements and other urban areas, around 16.5% compared to the total coastal line, tourism has visually changed the original landscape and ambience of the Adriatic coastal area over the last decades, but in recent years this sector has been successfully directed as sustainable tourism with efforts, reductions, sensualities most in Europe, in the period from 2005 to 2016, the number of visitors in protected areas has increased by as much as 62%. Biological diversity, the Republic of Croatia continues to be characterized by a wide variety of species and habitats, habitats are still largely preserved, 40 000 species have been reported in the Republic of Croatia, but it is estimated that 50 and 100 000 more are still around 100,000 species. According to the International Union criteria for the conservation of nature 2016 40% of evaluated species, subtypes or their populations were found to be at high risk of extinction. By the end of 2016, 407 areas including 8.54% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia including the territorial sea were protected in one of the 9 national categories, and if 12% of protected areas were in their management plan including most of the national parks and nature parks. As regards environmental protection measures, there is significant progress in implementing the environmental protection policy on monitoring and environmental reporting, this reporting period sets out the establishment of a national EU register since 2013, with a significant increase in the allocation of funds for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for environmental programmes and projects such as waste management, promotion of clean production, air quality protection, soil, water and sea quality, and biodiversity, as well as for energy efficiency programmes and projects, and for the management of specific categories of waste. Investments in environmental protection increased significantly from 1.12 billion kuna in 2012 to 3.06 billion kuna in 2016, mostly in waste water management and waste management, green public procurement and environmental management systems were established. From 2013 to 2016, 60 major projects in the field of environmental and nature protection are set aside at all levels of around 5.5 billion kuna co-financed by global and European funds with a national contribution and from the Environment Fund, a portal of air quality in the Republic of Croatia that gives insight into the quality of air in the Republic of Croatia compared to the EU has been established. The challenges and ultimately challenges of the coming period set out the protection of species at high risk of extinction according to the criteria are about 40%, according to international criteria, as indigenous varieties of vine varieties, as well as the continuation of the issue and achievement of air quality targets, climate change, waste management, waste water treatment, and the establishment of a full management and soil protection policy, as well as continuous soil monitoring in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, on the basis of the data presented in this proposal, it can be concluded that the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia meets the context of high national, European and world standards, but we are facing a number of challenges, in particular with regard to achieving the objectives of waste management and resource use, as well as climate change and adaptation to them, and in nature protection with a focus on water and marine eco systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168092	Thank you. Mr. Bull's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168093	Thank you very much. Secretary, this report for 2016. The drop in water at the moment when it occurred to the minister who threatened Mr. Coric, endangering the environment, that the garbage is being chased by municipal waste in Sinj, 120 km in old trucks that fall off the road, I think it's amazing what you've done, big damage to Vrgorčan who will pay 3 times more expensive, and the Sinjans have been fed up with you by the river Cetina, you have no other business, so the triba being the minister here, what he has hidden and could be the first point of the agenda because it's important, the waste management centers, waste management is the cancer of the Croatian society's early. And what you're doing in Dalmatia, you're doing a Neapolitan scenario in the entire region of Dalmatia and Croatia. It's a shame the minister didn't come here no matter what the 2016 report is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168094	Thank you. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168095	Thank you. Your Honor. So, I'll just try to answer that, though it's not the subject of this debate. This is the '13-'16 period. which could be talked about, however, as regards the very dynamics of closing the dump, let us explain this briefly. When we signed the EU accession agreement, we made a commitment to close all uncoordinated landfills by the end of 2018. That's what we estimate to be 26. In 2017, the previous minister adopted a waste management programme where, as a measure, as an exclusive measure, it was prescribed that the dynamics of the closure of those dumps would be developed and a tender was opened where expert assistance was sought, the IGH was elected as an expert organisation, which created the basis for the adoption of the storage dynamics. She was at a public hearing a month from 2018 and were even invited to associations of cities and county associations to point out this, they did not manifest themselves on this dynamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168096	Time, thank you. Mr. Bull has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168097	Thank you very much. Article 239 has been injured you have done a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please note that the waste management centre and waste management is a waste dump that should drive you to your yard of Vrgorca, you in front of the ministry. So do you know what you did? Do you know what chaos you've made? So why do I need this 2016 report of yours when you're now pinging Vrgorec's junk three times more expensive down to the poor. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168098	It's been a while, and you have one warning. And now let us be gentle so that we do not give you another warning because Article 239, as you well know, but you make up "Advocacy will be given a warning if it goes against Article 238 of this Rules of Procedure", and Mr Horvat is not, how many Mr Horvat as you are no longer a representative? He hasn't been a representative in three years. After three years, you can't give it to him. You gave me a warning? You want a second warning now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, Let's move on. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168099	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State Horvath. I have one simple question. We have the 2013-2016 report, now thank you for the end of 2019. On 19 September 2019, the report came to the Croatian Parliament, between 2016 and the end of 2019, and I am sure that there have been very many changes in the environment, and I hope that there have been some improvements to the waste than in this report. Where was that report? Why hasn't that come yet? So, we ourselves will look absurd and ridiculous in late 2019 to discuss the 2013-2016 report almost early, and we will certainly discuss in our debate a lot of what happened between 2016 and 2019. So, very clearly, where was the report, why was it gone and why wasn't it in the Assembly in some 2017? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168100	Thank you, too. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168101	Dear MPs, I'll try to answer where this weather imbalance happened. So, first of all, according to the environmental assessment model as I said by the European Environment Agency, these are standards that a report is being made over the last four years, in order to collect data on the complexity of all bodies must provide their data, etc. And it's just like that. We'll probably have a chance to analyze this period behind us in three years. Meanwhile, there was this reorganisation of the system where... then it integrated into the Ministry of Environmental Protection and there we lost another 6.7 months in that whole cycle of reorganisation. And that's probably one of the reasons why we're a few months late. Otherwise, the methodology is such that we now analyse the period 2013-2016, we simply cannot change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168102	Thank you very much. And Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168103	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The quality of reports like this is directly related to the quality of monitoring data and of course we will agree. And that's why I'm worried about you, and that's why I'm asking you, let's say the quality of the sea that we're holding for, and we're very proud that it's clean and beautiful and blue, but it might change in terms of our policy. You have 20 test cells, and for six, seven years there, these last reports say that seven of the 20 test cells do not have data. That means you don't monitor, you don't measure. So on what basis are we going to conclude the quality of this beautiful clean sea of ours?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168104	Answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168105	Thank you. So, monitoring was established in 2016 and then there was no somewhat excessive means to define it as a system as fully as it is today and that is why in this reporting period there may be complete data missing or you have the impression that the data was not covered, covered all of it, but then there was the beginning of the establishment of that monitoring and it had to be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168106	Thank you very much. I asked a little prematurely if the committee rapporteur wanted to take the floor, but since he's not here now, I won't repeat the question, although it would be my turn now, but I am opening the debate and the first is Mr. Slaven Dobrović in front of the club of the representatives of the independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168107	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I welcome all the representatives of the ministry and, of course, all the colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. So, before us is the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013 to 2016, it is four years and, as the secretary of state said, a complex, complex document, largely structured as you can see, however, what I would like to say here. So what's the significance of this document? Well big, big, even with the fact that today's the end of 2019, we have a '13 reporting period on the table. – '16, then it can probably not serve as a tool in environmental protection policy because it was a normal state and it was a policy of European which I think is perfectly fine and should be developed, so we monitor the state of the environment, so all the components, we follow all the sectors and we determine how much of the burdens are, what is the situation in our constituents, so air, water, soil, sea, the environment in general and on this basis we take certain measures. And of course it has to go in some order. We can't discuss 2016 now, so maybe the minister is studying it all the time, so he's running a policy, but I'm afraid some environmental protection, for example, we can't quite figure it out. So, it's hardly like there's any kind of analysis here that leads to certain measures, very difficult, because in the end I don't know who's thought of in the ministry right now that this report might come here before, for debate. I don't know why you didn't join a management plan, so now some link, some water areas, or something else, to see that there's some kind of concern and some logic, some common sense exists. Here, a little bit about the report. The quality of monitoring? Now I've asked the secretary of state, so I'm concerned about the state and quality of our sea which, of course, we consider to be beautiful, clean, which is very important to us, therefore for our developing tourist branch is crucial. However, 7 out of 20% does not give data over a few years and it is actually difficult to be sure that we have a good, good insight into the quality of our sea. You remember probably also the report on the catastrophic state in the Bay of Malaston where the shells were not for consumption without previous purification because they were polluted microbiologically, so they are not good for food. This is the consequence of tourism, so the burden that exists there, this is the consequence of various irresponsibility, so we all think that our septic tank will not create a problem because we are small, and here is the system let's worry about it, but such practices exist and are very spread across the Adriatic and I'm afraid that actually holding this, this report, this report, as complex as we actually have some pink glasses and we have a more beautiful picture than it actually is. It is not good, because early insight into the serious state would warn us that some measures must be taken, that is the interest of all, therefore, in the interests of those who have apartments both here and there and in the interest of those who sell clams and live on it. Foresting is generally said in one conclusion, i.e. in this summary, that it is about 70 to 75% of growth, and that is, of course, a satisfactory situation because it is within a sustainable, sustainable limit, so interest is not a substance. But the question is, what is it, how has it come to an account is whether it's dubious, because we know that many agricultural soils are actually naturally becoming forests, so low quality, and maybe that counts. I believe, of course, that it counts as natural growth, and remembers doing it somewhere else where it's a forest mass that's more important and where to bring the account down to those surfaces is a completely different picture. So, I'd like to make sure that we don't have the devastation of therefore forest areas, although there are very serious warnings coming from the field that somewhere it really cleans up, so without leaving a young tree which, therefore, is the same, the same kind of forest that would ensure that it remains a natural sequence of ingredients, rather than just to the ground, and it is what it is. And of course, I now have to catch up with this waste management, waste management presents the data in this report, so it talks about its waste, okay, but it's interesting that circular management is speaking in one other place, and it actually suggests that since these are the measures of the type of eco-innovation, eco-labelling, research, green public procurement to be added to one in fact unpractical, one future value, that this is such an interpretation. However, I am sorry to see it so organised because this means that it does not understand the European policy of circular management, that it must become part of the waste management policy, and ultimately the confirmation goes through all these years, even now if investments in the environment are analysed. There is a huge increase in this reporting period of investment in the environment, and if they are to be considered, then it can be quickly reported that all money has been spent in waste management centres. Therefore, it was not spent in accordance with the hierarchy and in accordance with the need to create raw materials from waste because in the center it does not seem. In the waste management centre, two such built Mariščina and Kastijun and you can see for sure that the situation is serious there and that it is not at all as anticipated by the experts regimeally who have found that this will be wonderful and wonderful and that the quality of life will grow, but that the work of such plants will be followed by the smell, which here for months can't be contained, and let's remember that the CGO has been proposed as a measure and in fact the solution finally for all the waste, we know the 2007 plan for a million and 500 thousand tonnes of capacity. The 2017 plan reduced to 640 or 40% of municipal waste and loss, so what was the problem, so sortery and compost which is exactly what Prelog, which is why Krk, so Osijek, all these cities that have success can thank the infrastructure of the ecological. This appropriation is intended to cover: In March 2017, there was a debate, so during my term of office, a public call for a recycling yard and after that nothing happened. So, for two years, nothing was called out despite the fact that it was a public little call, so it's not complex, but only this year in 4 months, a public call for sorters that is so complicated that I don't know if anyone signed up, but nobody got the funds. So it's working out like it's building a Space Shuttle I don't know how to understand that sortery. So, and that's, that's a way to create raw materials from separately collected waste, without it. So it's in vain to get cans that the fund buys, gets for the whole country for two years, a million and 200 thousand pieces, what are these containers for? So, unfortunately, we have one absurd waste management policy, and that's why this report is actually hypocritical, so it serves as one cover, we respect all procedures of European environmental policy, but they have no meaning or connection. At our place, the secretary of state says so it says in the measures of this waste management plan that it stands and closes the dump. Well, that's somewhere on the bottom. It's like going to kids who are learning athletics and taking them to the hardest facility before they're even up to it. When are you gonna close the dumps? So when there's an alternative, the alternative is sorting plants and composts under one, reuse centers too. They were supposed to be at 50 or 100 already. The second alternative is the last centers, all right 40% as planned goes there, but there is no centre either. So where is it, what's the point of forcing a city to drive waste, be careful but they don't have a transport system for, how with those specials you're going to drive waste, when he presses there, what's a big one in 5 tons fit inside. So it's not a car to transport away, it's to collect waste. And now that they have to drive there and that's what the State Inspectorate gets into. So it's amazing, I don't know how to justify it because it's in the plan, no, so it's in the plan and composting and sorting, you don't have to choose it, but you chose to close the dumps because it's part of the political pressures, which is why we run the country this way. It's a circus, one crazy thing, and then, of course, your demographics are getting worse, so young people, reasonable people see that there's no point waiting for a better time because it's getting worse. So, the sectoral report on waste management, you say it's better to go a little bit, it could go a little faster, that great, but if we're going to count the sector emissions when this decision is implemented and when you get 27 cities to drive x kilometers away, it's simply counting that you're going to charge additionally with emissions, with oil, with tea, with nitrogen oxides and all the things that come out of those trucks and tires, etc., and you're going to charge them financially. So we, we, we, I don't know what we're talking about here, so instead of using this as a tool to improve our system, where our environment, so it's our wealth, our natural heritage, is being used in a responsible way by leaving it to those who are coming. What do you think you're going to live for? I don't know until in those apartments, this and that and we don't care. We'll pick up our own by the system. Take off, land and shut up, pick up the money. It won't take long, it's years, it passes quickly, autumn, winter, new generations come behind this kind of policy, unfortunately, dust and ash. There will be nothing left, so only children associated with the political elite have a future, and they are provided with progress quickly and gunned down. All others who think to work from their work, based on your knowledge, learn languages and prepare and wait for better times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168108	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr. Josip Boric to present the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. Here's something I want to say about this report, the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia in the period 2013-2016. We've heard that time has already passed, but we've heard about why it hasn't been before. Well, probably because for a long, long time there was a document that still has 500 pages, made by professionals who obviously know their jobs. One whole book in all segments of our environment that needs to be some kind of lesson in the future, which was good for us, which is bad and what needs to be fixed. That is why it is little and difficult to talk about such a document in HS, except that we can politically represent our own position and say, as we often say, that the state of the environment in Croatia is either very nice or good or bad or not at all. So there are still some people who are quite different from him and look at him and leave a trail behind in the form of a single report, as well as those who like to play with numbers, who can certainly give a lot of instructions to figure out what's going on around us at all. This report, I say, on so many pages, over 500 worked, i.e. a total of 10 areas and 7 environmental components, i.e. air, climate change, water and water resources, sea, coastal areas and islands, soil and land, biodiversity, environment and health. When we go back a little bit further, certainly this report came from something. The Republic of Croatia has 3 basic documents concerning the framework for environmental protection itself, of course, that is, above all, the Strategy for environmental protection of the Republic of Croatia, after which the Environment Protection Programme and, of course, this report, which should say what the strategy and the programme have done to protect the environment properly, and what is not. That is why the purpose of this report is stated here, namely to determine or assess the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, to report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the environmental protection policy, to assess the implementation of the environmental protection policy, and, of course, to point out the justified correction of certain measures and to make recommendations as well as to how further. And he filled out this document entirely. On the other hand, we can say at the HDZ Club, of course, we will support it because I think a lot of people in the Republic of Croatia are approaching that topic perhaps in the simplest way. I don't know about the surface of the Republic of Croatia, which is over 56,000 square miles of seas with 31 thousand square miles of seas, means some 87 thousand miles of square miles of forest, so when we put it all in relation to what is, say, in the mainland part of the Republic of Croatia, what is primary and most widespread, when we say that these are forests with 55%, many would be surprised, or that agricultural land from some 40% of the entire area, we can simply say that forests and agricultural land, and there can be anything, certainly. So all the different types of agricultural land where they make up 95%, that that urban part, which is a settlement, which is building areas, is only a few percent of the total area of the Republic of Croatia. And when we say that we are a rebuilt state, we can ask ourselves what we are compared to all the other countries in our environment because really, when we look at some cards, only in this part of the permanently covered ground it is clear that only the City of Zagreb carries almost half of all relations when we talk about such a situation that I don't know, almost 15, 12 times more covered ground in Zagreb than in the city of Rijeka, and that kind of impression can be difficult when we talk about the number of residents or other categories. So this story of environmental protection, which is very well done through sectoral burdens, clearly shows through the pluses and minuses which is good, and which was not well done during the observed period. For example, in the energy diversification system, we have stronger integration of renewable energy sources and we find that we are above the EU average. We listen here every day of the debate to make it here if we were the worst. We no longer know what is what, who listens, professional people who speak and show data, graphs and tables, which clearly show, what is, and these others who say that it is better anywhere than with us. It's the same with the perception of environmental protection. When a stranger comes to the Republic of Croatia always says it's nice here, it's neat, there's clean sea and air and land and everything else. We're underestimating such a situation ourselves, probably because we live in such a space, and it's become normal for us to be looking for a small point that's bad, so we can transfer it to the entire Republic. These are some of our customs, but clearly shows you space. It's just environmental policy, but everything else we do as a state that it's not exactly like that. When we talk, I don't know about some other minuses, let's say energy supply from its own sources from 53 to 61% still primarily means hydrologically favourable year means more power, hydrologically unfavourable we have less power. Many force renewable energy sources, I watched recently on television, on the daily highest load, we can have an unaccountable 2800 MW hours of load, and at that point, renewable energy sources dropped only 30 MW hours. When we see this relationship that means hydropower plants, which means wind power plants, solar power plants and everything else, it's clear what the state has to do if it doesn't want to be dependent on all the time, what we're talking about is imports of energy itself. As for some other burdens, when we talk about agriculture and forestry, it is clear that agriculture is increasingly switching to, maintains principles and to organic agriculture. When we talk about fishing and tourism is clearly recognized here is a minus, the state of the population in the open Adriatic, and on the western coast there is no recovery for now because we simply have problems with small blue fish and kačar fishing. We should improve the situation because more and more appears to us in the Adriatic and some foreign species that have never existed in the Adriatic. There are some reasons why that's the case. We sometimes read about it in the papers, but obviously we have problems. And another minus in that part. The share of water consumption from tourism is growing, the amount of waste from tourism and, of course, the level of noise is increasing. All of this has been observed and it is clear what the state itself should do in that part. It's probably the next three years that were in '17, '18. and '19. certain improvements have certainly occurred. Of course, today we're all caught up in that most important part of the load that's certainly waste management. When we look at the production of waste, municipal waste per capita, the EU average is 100 kg higher than the average of the Republic of Croatia, and we have imposed ourselves as all other levels so as not to reduce this production, or bring this recycling and separation system to a certain acceptable level to some or above levels of 50% or 60%. When we see how much yearly we create waste, it certainly means most of it, it means somewhere over 5,277,000 tons of waste. So it's about 1.2 tons per capita, three kilos a day. It's just that it's clear that we are in these more modern times, because when we see each other, we're back in '95. A year when we've been on double smaller amounts, something's going on in this country. Whether it's just modern times that I live in, so certain new packagings have come up and everything else through the industry or more is being built, we have more products, we have more use of various products and, of course, at the end of more waste. When we look at certain levels of mixed municipal waste, we see that it falls from year to year. It means that the system has been properly implemented, however, it is obvious that there are certain problems. And we've been listening here now means that this 1,800,000 tons in these 5 million creates a problem. The problem arises at local level and the state is there to regulate such an area by its laws and sublaws. I think we were going well and we just got into a problem. I think that the ministry must establish a good relationship with local self-government and municipal enterprises and listen to the observations that appear these days, and it concerns the amended waste management regulation so that the system that has been being built for many years continues to be built in the direction in which it has been drawn up and not to raise now everything that has been done because of what I say has been remembered to change something due to the process itself. We do not say that we do not need to change, but that we should respect people who deal with these problems in an instant and who know what they are doing, because there are communal societies that can be examples and we like to call on them when they need to be shown or when we need to show the policy of protection or the environment. waste management, but when we need to listen to them in what they have to say as an observation, then we don't listen to them properly. So I ask the Ministry to really see that they have run or started to run certain deadlines that this story about this regulation is tried by talking and agreeing to resolve the satisfaction of all, and the most important citizens who ultimately have to pay for such a system and the disposal of such waste. Those who say we don't need to close the dump, we have to tell our experience from the Primorje-Gorski County. Our dumps were closed in 2018, we didn't have a chance to say we didn't want to, as we did in Istria. Waste management centres are open, please drive waste mixed communal into those centers. The rest that separates plastics, glass, paper and biowaste, please choose to place it on the market to recover. We have two centers that are built, 3 that are in preparation and 7 in the plan. We don't have that shift. Why did we happen to pass laws and acts that apply only in 2 or 3 counties without the other counties reaching even a level of preparation, let alone construction? There are problems, and then we have these situations where individuals rise above the system and think they should edit that system. There are plans, there are laws, and if it's said that we have to close three dumps to take everything to one in some kind of strategy, then we have to sort of understand that. Because I'm telling you, we're closed dumps, and we can't put on those dumps or a kilo of waste even though many of them aren't even recovered yet. And that's where the problems happen. The level of implementation of all laws and acts must be equal for all. We can't have local self-government where it's one of the basic tasks of local self-government to take care of waste and to take care of it, to make sure that some people do everything right, and that some people don't want it to go much better than those who have prepared themselves and do everything the way the law has prescribed whether it costs anything. And of course, in such a conflict of relationships, everyone's looking for reasons why they wouldn't do anything. We have to work with... and certainly if we want to be a responsible state and responsible people politicians to achieve what we ourselves drew that we should say because the results show up, we don't need to be too philosophical here. It's clear if there's a loading station, if you have a recycling yard, if you have a sortery and you have to drive to the waste management center so it can go, that it has its own cost, but it's unacceptable and it can be maintained with not too much time. And we can apply that if we had pilots in the Primorian-Gorski County in Istria then they can function anywhere. Why there is no will of regional local self-government to build a waste management centre, it is a question that the ministry must answer, of course, as well as the mayors. Those are county-owned centers. And not responsibility frees us from our obligations, and we must not allow, regardless of all our political differences, one serious problem to be experienced by everyone in a different way. It is enough to look at a map of coastal and island loads in the form of mixed municipal waste or any kind of waste, it is multiplely larger than on the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. For what? That's why we take care of over a million and a half tourists a day in the summer. These people clearly create a certain level of waste that is measured equally for all. Such areas to put in the same relationship with all others are already starting to be wrong. We need to make clear what we need, what are the relations that need to be developed with local self-government, and the regional level must also participate because without their activities and those local ones they will not do their job properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168110	Next on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go, fellow Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168111	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have at the end of the working day a report on the state of the environment of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2016. When we have certain reports, then I look at them and I think we should look at them in two ways. One is form, the other is content. So the form is that the report has everything to have, that it has a certain methodology to be used and then the content that must be, that must be covered, that must be analysed. And why do we need those reports? We need them for reasons to be able to pursue strategies and to pray for action plans. It's only right and only right. The key question is therefore, at the end of 2019, early 2020, we are discussing the 2013-2016 report and I cannot be impressed that we are just fulfilling the form, the report must pass the Parliament, someone has seen it, we are left with this report now let's go to the Parliament so we don't stay too far and let's satisfy the form. Otherwise, there's interesting data in the report, and I personally like to have such reports because then I use it for different analyses, comparisons, and everything else I need because I think there's such data, but I never have the devil to calm down, so then I'm gonna go and compare some data to each other. I often get the feeling that you know me who tracks or tracks, parallel rides, sometimes sometimes they cross somewhere and we move on. I always see in those reports the part that interests me, the part that I kind of think I understand. And then I start with space, everything happens in space, and now I'm going to watch what's been done, which data we have and I'm going to take the latest report from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, which this Assembly voted in 2013 for the period 2008-2012, it would be good if there was a new report on the state of space in the Assembly, but it wasn't, and I have no indication that it would soon come. And now I'm looking at what my colleague Boris was saying, he was talking about the report we have data on how many forests, how many farms there are, how many artificial surfaces there are, and the methodology is the root and one and the other methodology was used in the state of the area report and the report on the state of the environment. And now I'm really sometimes a little bit recognizable, and now from 2010 on, the state of the space report says that "Croatia has 47% of the area under the woods, and 3.6% are built," so there are both buildings and all that change in nature. And in the report on the state of the environment, which is later said that artificial surfaces are 3.4% and that there is a bit more forest surface and you use the 2012 root. It is impossible for the 2010 root to say that there are more artificial surfaces, so satellite footage that in 2010 said that we have more artificial surfaces than satellite footage in 2012, something is not good. What exactly am I trying to tell you? It's not those reports that we're capacitating ourselves to that hill of paper. These reports pass, among other things, and the opinion of all other ministries. So every ministry should look at its part and react and say society is wrong. Because when you say 3.4% or 3.6 someone comes to a dear God anyway, when you turn it into square meters, it's not a dear god anyway, and it's totally inappropriate for the government and the council to bring in two reports and that these reports use the same methodology and that it was more built in 2010 than in 2012, it's impossible, someone is either wrong or copied or seen or anything else. So, same methodology, same satellite footage. What exactly am I trying to say? Let's go, when we have some reports, maybe on some government co-ordination that everyone, not everyone should look at everything, to look at their part, it's to me, so when I do something, I look at what I know in Denmark, and then I use different, different reports from Denmark. And so one day, when Croatia is going to work, it's going to use state reports in space, environmental reports, everything's going to be public, everything's going to be publications, we have different data. Let's not do that and let's not do that. Otherwise the part that's next to the space is a well-showed one, so I'm not a general practice and I never get into all the elements, but here I've been looking at space, I've watched traffic, I've watched tourism, I've looked at waste management, and I've seen the part that talks about climate change, it's something I'm dealing with and I want to deal with further. When it comes to spaces, you have a good comparison of the City of Zagreb and a good comparison of Rijeka that speaks in favor of the fact, a little bit of territory is different, so the City of Zagreb except for the town of Zagreb and Sesveta makes 68 settlements and is part of Medvednica and so it is difficult to compare there, but a good comparison is made to see what it is about. I'm going to make it a little faster, because I kind of want to say everything. When it comes to traffic, this report points to three things that we from this pay phone repeat. The first thing is that traffic should begin to solve in a different way not only highways and roads, but also railways. The other thing is that public transport should be used and, therefore, other than roads and railways, involved in the resolution of some suburban or urban local traffic and the third thing that is very dear to me is that it stands in this report that very carefully planning and building public garages in terms of cities and city planning. So that's something that's good that's written. It would be good to have strategies that go beyond that that maybe even some urban or, strategies or county strategies based on it, but something that's this report since 2016 I hope the thing is a little better and it'll be something better for this next period, and that's using alternative sources to be gas buses, to be electric or the rest is devastating. So when you see how many vehicles are used for public transport, how few, and which are not on classic gasoline, I hope there is a step in 2017 and 2018, when you compare it and when you see it's too little and there comes the role of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, we also had in public space a case with the fund manager who was very boasting about the money that he has money in the fund. It is not the purpose of the fund to raise money, the meaning of the fund is that the money he has raised on the market that citizens can buy to finance some other things and apropo that will be interesting to see if we have a new director or director or something has changed. A special part of you have about tourism, tourism is according to this report in view of all the time I have this reserve in 2013. – 2016 then tourism took part in 18% of GDP. Tourism can be seen exactly how things change. Tourism as an economic branch is extremely pro-pulsive and is changing terribly. I wrote a text 10 years ago about how the loadability of a particular area was related to tourism and then I was based on the UN was otherwise financed by a programme of development of the North and South Adriatic in terms of tourism when it was in another country then they funded and bound Albania and there was part and the upper Adriatic that sort of ended up there somewhere near Zadar and then it was this one called the southern Adriatic somewhere from Sibenik further and then they planned hotels for you in the way how many towels stand on the beach. And then there was the surface of the towel one was so much, so many fit on the beach and back from that you get to the number of rooms in hotels and then it was planned there in the '70s, the '80s. Today is an absolutely different kind of tourism, tourism is much more connected to cities than it was, than it was then. Trends of tourism are quite different and it is good that it is because the tourism that was created in Croatia in the 1960s and 1970s and in the 1980s was based on the natural beauty of Croatia, while destroying these natural beauty by building it. So then there was a question of what further development of tourism was based on and it's good to talk here and for the first time I saw it in one document, someone who was working was obviously dealing with it, said the capacity capacity of the particular area. It's extremely important, space is not unlimitedly good. Once you've used space, you've used it for good and this loadability is extremely important. Since waste management is likely to cause and be in a lot of debate, I expect it to be, I'm going to do a little bit about climate change. Climate change is a fact. Decent countries, countries that think about their future, are now preparing for climate change that are facts. They are now creating new jobs, new jobs, new jobs that will be related to climate change, and the theme of management is absolutely closely related to climate change, so all of these activities to see that we no longer have nylon bags, that these large systems are no longer packed into that nylon all together, these are all activities that have connections. On the one hand, we create less waste, but on the other hand, it has to do with climate change. I am looking at it in the context of this couple of very interesting data that it has been recently that each worker or worker at EU level has changed jobs once or twice in his working life. Now it's ten times, ten times someone in their working life changes their job with lifelong education and with everyone else. Of which, in the way it refers to waste as added value, it's called urban mining where waste dumps that have been recovered in a way that many of them and we've been rehabilitated, only with a ground cover, it's not a rehabilitated waste dump, it's just a buried waste dump that they're being exhausted that they're now using other than gas and some other metals as added value and everything else. I sometimes feel like we're tapping really in the dark, spinning around in circles, acting like the world around us doesn't exist. It's good to always watch what's going on around us, and it's good to admit when some decisions are made wrong. At one point, I remember for a long time because I've been working for a long time was a hit topic in Croatia to get rid of waste dumps and all municipalities and cities have withdrawn funds related to the disposal of waste dumps without having done the most important thing, decided how to take care of waste. Because what did we do? We rescheduled waste dumps, and new dumps were opening because we didn't know what to do with the waste. And what I'm sure, the whole of Croatia can do the job and all municipalities and cities can do the job well. Here is an indication that in four cities in Croatia, Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Zagreb live at this time about 45% of the population. Osijek for efforts, Rijeka for efforts with Split goes a little more sloppy, but those eyes that need to be against should be in the city of Zagreb. Until the city of Zagreb makes a serious shift, there is no such thing as luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168112	Thank you, colleagues. The next one is on behalf of SDP representative Mihael Zmajlovic. Here's your colleague, Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168113	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. There's a very complex report in front of us. In an integral form it's over 400 almost 500 pages of text, first of all I would like to congratulate all those who worked on it, it's very important. This report is actually referred to one strategy that is adopted for a 10-year period "The Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia through the Environmental Protection Act" and it allows us to look at with this time-out how individual indicators that we follow in the environment are changing and how individual measures implemented by policy or should be implemented reflect on the improvement or deterioration of these individual indicators. What I don't think is good is that this report, which was put together in 2018, only today, is on the assembly benches. So, I don't know why it took a year for this to go into procedure, that's one thing. And the other thing that concerns me is that this Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, in whose jurisdiction is the coordination of making such a report, is that even on this Sustainable Development Strategy, the Republic of Croatia does not respect its respective laws. So in 2019, we already had to have a new Sustainable Development Strategy for the new ten-year period, and as we can see, we don't even see that working groups have been formed to produce such a single document. So, the ministry is actually breaking its law that is a resolute law, and I think it's a bad message. But what I am pleased to see here is that in this report we can see clearly, and this is rarely seen, this report refers to the mandate of the previous government, the two governments of Zoran Milanovic dominantly, rarely see in one report the direct consequences of certain measures taken by the government. Therefore, if you look at only the graphs in the report relating to the increase in the allocation of environmental protection funds, so from 2012 to 2016 it is an exponential growth in investment. This reflected both the decision and the strategic and political commitment of the government to really tackle burning problems, primarily in the area of waste management. There is also a package of laws from this portfolio, i.e. the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, the Environmental Protection and the Nature Protection Act, which was adopted in 2013 and the measures that followed and through the Environmental Protection Fund, also affected that indicators on recycling of waste change from 26% in 2012 to 42% in 2016. And a series of other measures here we can see what are the indicators that are actually positive. But, of course, we cannot still be satisfied because the goals ahead of us are not achieved after 2016, the whole system stagnates. A series of measures provided for additional measures to be introduced in 2016 such as the so-called Landfill tax or disposal fee which is a very effective measure where there are examples of good practice in the EU in countries that have introduced such a measure of things are about the isolated collection of the percentage of recycling waste, so the separation of waste from the dump where these things have changed dramatically in a positive direction, Croatia is 2016, and then every year thereafter, until today, it has failed to introduce for an unknown, truly unknown reason. And when I listen to my colleague, Boric, who spoke here, with a good part of what he said I agree, but here he sounded like an opposition politician, so 90% of his debate was a criticism of the ministry and why something was not done or why something had to be done. So here we have when we talk about the waste management sector a very chaotic situation. Unfortunately, our citizens see it only when they see on the streets that the waste is not taken away or in a situation where separate and collected waste is placed in the same truck, the same means of transport and puts it back on the dump instead of ending it at recovery or recycling or through a third thing, which is an increase in the price of service that is sometimes justified, but often it is the cause of the bad decisions of this government. I am thinking primarily of the last amendment to the Waste Management Regulation where, with these changes, we have not returned two or three years ago, but we are going back 10 or 15 years where the concepts and the ideas of the Sustainable Waste Management Act itself from 2013, the principles on which the calculation must be done according to the quantity of the service delivered, etc., introduce categories of users where now operators or utility companies will have to spend millions of dollars to re-sign a contract or statements with users where these categories of users will be misused in order to achieve small political interests at local level. And I deeply believe that the majority of the mayors and commissioners are not responding because it creates additional problems for them, and on the other hand, no solutions are offered. The other thing that's key, it's infrastructure, it's building a waste management centre. There was a lot of controversy about it, etc. And we every new government, not every one of them, but unfortunately the HDZ government is trying to run things, so destroy everything that's good, and then run some new things, and we get killed in it. Clean proof of this is the Waste Management Plan, which was adopted in 2017 after a year and a half of stretching between coalition partners, it was adopted. And now that you're looking at its realization, that 90% of the objectives set by that plan are not being achieved and more than 90% of the measures envisaged by this plan to apply are not being implemented. So, even from some basic labs and studies that were to be done by the ministry, it wasn't built without talking about waste management centres that were according to the concept and strategy that this state had set up 15 years ago a pillar of such a system. Because how we can reduce waste disposal and how we can permanently close dumps is if there is an alternative. Perhaps waste management centres and this concept is not the best, but that it is in use as it is today in Istria County and Primorje-Gorski, it is certainly better for both the environment and the economy and people than what is happening today, which is that at over a hundred locations in Croatia are being delayed without previous processing, was waste, was degradable waste created greenhouse gases, so we have emissions and ultimately destroy the value of materials that citizens actually shed through waste. So it's a disaster, it's something that's inexplicable that for four years this country has failed to build a single centre. And in 2015, for five centres were ready, all the documentation complete for tendering, so to call the competition, if 2016 these works were agreed we would probably open four or five more of these centres in 2019. We don't have anything today. We have two new contracts, I know they've been made and their realisation and construction will take two to three years to come. So we definitely won't, and we haven't achieved the targets for reducing the amount of waste that's being deposited on landfills, and I'm not talking about a goal that's related to separate collection of waste, especially those four known categories. And one of the reasons is that the ministry has not respected the law since 2016, so no call for public call for collectors has been opened. Why wasn't that done? Why is it that for four years the Environmental Protection Fund pays concessionaires fees whose contracts have expired? That's the real question. I made an effort and calculated that in four years 350 million kuna was paid from the Environmental Protection Fund more than it should have been made that public call aimed at reducing costs and paying compensation from the Environment Fund itself. Who's going to answer for that? That's the real question. Unfortunately, I'm afraid no one will. You have an absurd situation with municipalities and cities that are haunted by the inspection, the State Inspectorate, why they have not implemented the decisions or do not respect the regulation, do not achieve the objectives etc. on the one hand, and on the other hand for two years, the Environmental Protection Fund is unable to carry out a tender for tanks, so for bins that cities and municipalities have been ordered to do, and the equipment is not two years old. Imagine that the equipment two years ago was distributed to the citizens' doorstep worth nearly 400 million kuna, so something would have been isolated, paper, glass, was waste, etc., so for two years. That this contest would now be annulled. So none of this is going to happen today, because it's chaos. What is the conclusion? Here, this report actually opens up a series, a series of topics, so here we mostly refer to waste management, so every more area it deals with. So, we have good trends, we have trends that have been stopped unfortunately, but what I would add here is that I think it's constructive and I'm sorry that we didn't make it to the end and during that period when I was a minister to resolve it started that way, and that's the next. So I doubt certain data. When we talk about packaging waste, are we not suspicious that the EU average is in the EU, that the production of such waste is 167 kg per capita and that in Croatia is only 55. Is that possible? So, I argue that it is impossible for a team more than the information provided by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by 100% different from what the Environmental Protection Fund has. Why is that? Therefore, as relevant information is taken to that amount of waste which the Environmental Protection Fund actually registered through the compensation. What about the rest of the packaging and the packaging, the packaging that's not registered? Because the fund doesn't really do that. What's charged is like an entry and then we run statistics based on it. Where's the rest? So that's what it's supposed to be, first it's an additional source of income to the fund, but as far as I can see, the fund accumulates billions of kunas in accounts and deposes it into Special banks and, in fact, here are two seconds, special banks. [[Intruder: A colleague, Zmajlović, please finish.]] He doesn't do the job he's paid for. [[One, two.]] Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168114	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate and the name of the clubs, now followed by the individual debate is the first colleague of Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168115	Thank you very much. The report on the state of the environment is very important, and because of the public, I think it was a trial to be in the morning and to be Minister of the Environment Mr. Coric because we are talking about problems that concern the problem today. So it's not just a report for the report and to talk to me about some kind of problem that's going to solve us. You listed in this report from renewable energy sources how you solved the problem, but we know that the problem has been solved, that the most wind power plants that Croatia i.e. Our citizens encourage a billion and a half kuna plus a billion kuna supplier, two and a half billion kunas go who knows whose pockets, no microsolars were used, i.e. The solar sun is the richest of us than it has ever been for strangers. You were talking about road transport, so here's a colleague, Slaven Dobrović, who is an expert on this environmental issue, mostly waste management, but I warn you, so you can pass on to the secretary when he doesn't dare come to this important topic, and he has no cheek to come because he has to say the solution he's cooked up now in Dalmatia, and throughout the Republic of Croatia, what about the bridge pits from the highway, for example. In Dugopolje, which means directly to Jadro, means anything from the road, from the vehicle that touches the road, ends up in the caves and the Splits drink it, we need to know. It's a solved problem disastrously, you're familiar with other problems as well. When we talk about industries, we had some industries that closed down, what with the black hill, getting to know, the black hill in the Ravna kotars, I warned, the European Court made a verdict, then they laughed, they laughed at the black hill, construction material. However, the black hill is the European Court has ruled that it is not, that waste and that is dangerous waste in the middle of the place, a dangerous waste standing in the middle of the place. No one solves anything. It's still a black hill. I'm going to visit downstairs these days to see how effective you've done it, and someone's going to have to pay for it. The marine environment, the exclusive economic belt, we didn't have to declare that they would protect ours, meaning our territorial sea. We don't have a ship in the Republic of Croatia that, we don't have the means to solve the Calvary case, but we have to wait from Italy for that ship to come to us. So much for how worried we are about some environmental disasters, and now the washing of the tankers and so on is happening on the Adriatic, so we have stains bigger than the city of Split. There's absolutely nothing to do about it. You are talking about agriculture, that unfortunately in Croatia we have 700,000 hectares of unprocessed land, 700,000 of which is targeted, 700,000 and we know that in Croatia still somehow through the law is used as controlled means of herbicides where glyphosate is a very dangerous herbicide which Austria has already banned, and the EU is thinking about, I don't know what Croatia has done, I have proposed a law on the abolition of i.e. A ban on that compound. Forests can be talked about, but we'll talk about that later, especially in terms of the management of the forest in those areas. Now we're coming up with that theme I've been waiting for. Waste management. Even counterpart Boris says the waste management centre is in the jurisdiction of the county. Yes, and I say where the mayor hid when there was a problem, Mayor Boban, the problem that vervain trash, which is a municipal mixed waste that will cost our citizens, means from a dump that has the same sanitary conditions as the sonic, or as in the plates that are 20 km away, but there is a minister born and I am not at all for the transport from Vrgorec to Ploče because I believe that what Slaven Dobrović is the most competent here and who has these projects was led, the most competent and should listen to him, and not do waste management centres so that we have Mariščina today, so that in my Lečevica, in a junk where we should protect the water that you mention here, drinking water, no. A waste management centre in Lečevica, where 15 years in the last 2004, 15 years, the county spent only its 30 million assets, you know why? Hired their own people. Now you and I have to read mushrooms there together. Nothing, nothing was made, and 30 million kunas for wages. The leader of this, the leader of that. ... Mine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are counties that are pointless. That also holds back the local leaders the state government depends on. Why? Because he's decentralizing their resources and you're still strengthening their power now. You gave them 200 more employees' powers. Countys are the cancer of Croatian society's wounds, my Dalmatian burns. Since the counties 100,000 people have been less in the Dalmatian Zagora. 100 grand. All those Turkish occupiers who went through the area are the larger demographic breakdowns of the county now, and this is seen exclusively in waste management. It occurred to you, a minister who didn't come here, and you're secretaries, and what, you came here. 28 You are a dump, 28 and it has occurred to you, so it is on the island of Brac, so here it is in Sinj problem because you will talk about water protection. You're talking about hydroenergy. So my Cetina produces, the river where I come from, 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia and for the prize, instead of projects that will develop this area demographically, touristically because we are very close to Split, you remembered to transport garbage from Vrgorec in old trucks threatening traffic, air, I think. At the expense of Vrgorčana who will double the cost of garbage, triple. There is no such thing as financial, they do not have the capacity of the financial and purity company that is in charge and means damage to the whole of the Dalmatian Zagora. What's the message? Can I help you? ... any which is 5% of GDP from foreign donations to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 2.4 billion because of these moves because it's money, waste money. If you'd done the sorters, the compos, as Slaven Dobrović said, if they had made them 50, 100, 200, today you'd have employees there at least 20, 30, so these people would work, separate the recycling yard, sorters, composts, train people, not you made the green islands, and the same truck essentially buys from those buckets, i.e.. Same junk, same thing you did. Chaos. People in Novska, beware, as a cover of biological waste 60,000 tonnes will be transported from Zagreb at the request of HDZ and HSS, they are in a coalition at the request of the mayor, I am sorry that there is no Mayor Plitvica here, who is from that area, who should fight for it not to be at it because there is a water catchment area that feeds this area from Kutina and Gradiška, Jasenovac and you will be transporting from Zagreb to Jasenovac waste. And people are opposed, they even collected 1600 signatures in Novska. 1600 signatures from 11000 before the council, but did not vote that, the HDZ-HSS coalition, I repeat the mayor, Mayor Piletic, HDZ Mayor and people oppose and sought a referendum. We've collected 2900 signatures. Somewhere around here, 2300, it doesn't matter at all, but enough. And they've been looking at the Department of Administration that says that every city has to take care of its communal problems, i.e. about the waste and they sent it, of course, to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court says it's not our jurisdiction, it's not our jurisdiction. Whose jurisdiction is it? Well, the waste mob can't rule both now and by means of transportation. So who's gonna drive it from Vrgorec? And Brač Island. 27 units of local self-government also shut down at one point that you didn't provide absolutely anything. I don't give, I stand in front of the truck, they won't come in. And because of the Vrgorcans and the property that's waiting for the same thing. So why, where's the process? Why aren't you made... The tape, for the rest of the waste, what can't be in the sorters, is recycled, so it's money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They thought of Levice, the tunnel breach so that they could drive as far away as possible so that more peanuts could pop out of the people's pockets and so on to the poor people. Poor guy. You buried the Dalmatian Zagora, you buried Slavonia, you buried everything. As far as rational parks are concerned, the only thing you've made a neat appointment in Krka National Park. Instead of naming the person who is a Croatian defender, Dr. Science, has all the competences, you are the only person who has two party cards and continues today's coalition, normally, will not fail the government, it is a farce and fog. And who's got HDZ and HNS, and the woman who's a defense attorney, the scout was in the Homeland War, Snakes Ljiljana, she doesn't. Dr. Science in the area. Don't worry anyone. Absolutely no one. Look at Plitvice National Park, look at everything, the environment is a mess. And chaos has made this minister who's afraid to come and say why he doesn't solve chaos. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168116	Thank you, fellow Bull, we have a replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168117	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. Do you think the Minister or the creator of this policy, so closing the dump before the alternative is clear that only paper and biowaste make up over half the waste that Vrgorac should now drive that I don't know how far away 100 km away. So, the biowaste is simply composted, so simple, it's what our grandfathers did, we didn't just invent miracles, it's done in the woods spontaneously, and with some technology, it speeds up, and the product is a compost that's useful there for whatever you want and those strawberries, their wine, I don't know what. But it doesn't go where, to you in Sinj, so to a dump that's probably much better or the same anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168118	Thank you. Here's my friend Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168119	I agree with you, colleague Dobrović. I am here publicly saying that you will go with me, I will call you, I believe you will go, that you people, I will organize the terms, explain what compostana means, and what it means for agricultural production of Vrgorje, Sinjski, Drinjski, Kninski, Kninski, Zadar, which represents and what it means, and not to rob out of the pockets of money for waste that must be used in this case as compost i.e. like fertilizer. What does that mean for a local self-government unit? Not transport garbage 100 km which is not essentially garbage but waste, but biowaste, use the sea in agricultural production for strawberries, vineyards, fruit growing in the vervain area or vice versa. And they had enough of the garbage to boast in the European Commission that they had met some conditions that they had made the last point. When you've done all the tribals, you've met in the waste management plan, then it's just a triangulation, and not the minister made the show, and I'm telling him that no truck will pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168120	Thank you. And the last individual debate of his colleague, Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168121	Thank you very much. I'm sorry they left, the former minister left because, of course, I'll continue the conversation. exposure on the subject of waste because it really deserves attention today. For what? Because right in the junkyard, you're looking for a transition today, now, here, and she's possible. The minister boasted that he'd singled out a lot of money. It's increased exposure, separation for environmental protection only it's a shame he didn't want to listen and spend money on the right things. Because working mixed waste can only be allowed when you do everything you can to take advantage of useful qualities. And that's what he writes in all the laws, not just in his 2013 "sustainable waste management," even '95. it said that valuable properties should be used and it's kind of normal, it's logical and it's implanted in a person who's willing to think clearly about what with my solid residue, I'm not going to do any damage, but I'm going to allow it to go into conversion and go back to the economy into the economic system. That only makes sense. So, did we learn anything? Well, I guess we haven't, 'cause there's a lot of chaotic discussions going on here. The CGO and as if they were or were not, so we have Mariscina and Kastion there, we don't know what to do with it. The smell, what's that smell? Well, from the biodegradable waste that came there and that inadequately manipulates, treats and generates the anaerobic conditions in that pit of reception, which is like some kind of hell, it's one disaster from the scene, go there to a reception pit that can never be emptied except to stop the work and there are only problems. So the solution isn't that, it's definitely not a solution. We signed in an access contract to worry about biodegradable waste. So composting is the simplest, and it doesn't just have to be composting there's anaerobic dyastia, but composting is a simple process that can be used easily and everywhere. The city of Prelog with municipalities that are within their companies over, I mean, you know how much they have jumped into the efficiency of separation, and very much that number is followed by recycling, so from 19 to 50% per year, thanks to why, building a compost and managing a separate collection of biowaste, because separating biowaste without having a compostane like some do, it's absurd. It's like sitting in a car with wheels, and there's no engine, so you're pushing a little bit with your foot, so where you're going, nowhere. We've got such a radical situation. The fund buys dishes, they imagine it united, whoever can deliver a million vessels. It makes no sense, leave it to the cities and municipalities as their goals; their responsibility is theirs, and let them be concerned. Who says there have to be vessels? It has to be like that in general. They must achieve the objectives and give them the money, so the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion 475 million EUR stands, the last months of the takeover will be 2023, so autumn, we will not succeed. So the money stands, and the public calls for composting and sorting, so the only thing that makes it possible to achieve these goals, so I didn't invent those goals. They say he's too ambitious. No matter what I'm too ambitious when he is, here's former Minister Zmajlovic put such a thing in the Law on State Management of Waste, which we're talking about then. The EU Accession Treaty writes so and now you have a new European policy, we are taking over the laws. Obligations until 2025, '30, '35, getting stricter and stricter. So it can't be done without a superfluous system of separate collection paired with that sortery and it can be small entirely, can be larger, medium, like this, same composting. However, a great miracle is being done in us, a great project, so such conditions are being set, elaborated, required to prove this cost-effectiveness, which is cost-effective when it is a means for you to achieve your goal. And where the cost-effectiveness of asking the center in Mariščina, where are these experts who have signed miracles, swear on public defenses that it will be a miracle of technique, beautiful, nothing of smell, nothing of smell, so it is them, the regimeal experts who have collected the money, so by ten percent for, to prepare the documentation, and they didn't even know what to draw, and today it is so that the centers are being prepared, here is Babina Gora, CGO Babina Gora, so what is it, Babina Gora in Karlovac who collects... , watch out for the transfer of cells or the overload station in Slunj, so will a beautiful town of Slunj, the first thing that will get from waste infrastructure, a 1 million-euro cargo station, for what it's worth, 850 tons of waste a year, so someone would say so we'll eat it for that money. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know what can be done with a sorting plant, composting, a reuse centre for that capacity, and you know that it can't cost more than a million Euros and you've solved Slunj, they're on, you know, at 80% and 20% they already have a fresher and untied it whenever they want to go to Babina Gora, when you want Babina Gora, and not like this they'll get a transfer station that they don't even know what sorting is, or composting, they know, but that's the system, that's Europe, so we're doing backwards. Lečevica, so who's crazy to put there in that neighborhood, so it's, that's when someone wrongly decides at the beginning, is why, because it's all expensive assigned to the county, so the mayors have no mild ties about it, they only know that they would gladly run investments of EUR 70 million, choose the performer, set up this man here, there, they, they're only interested in it, have responsibilities, no, so they don't have responsibilities, units of local self-government have responsibility for achieving the goals, they only care about the rest and, of course, they're very anxious that it's bigger and more expensive, but they don't have trouble with the priority funding and, and, and, and, and the government here and my previous minister, and this one, they'd like to now be able to include it as a matchbox, but all the luck that doesn't go so fast, but why it stands with coming, sorters? Waste management is able not to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to finally connect to, more specifically, the environmental component, that is, the atmosphere and the receipt of greenhouse gases because of the methane generated on landfills, but because of the return of matter to the economy, it generates huge savings in energy. Why? So because the production process of new paper takes three times less energy, and that counts, that's what one country's balance sheet counts because we need paper, we need all paper if we haven't produced it, if we import it, it has its own load, it has its own print, the futprint, how do you expect, energy, greenhouse. So, if we put it back, then we're burning the energy. With plastic it's even more intense, with glass it's intense, not so much, with metals it's very intense, we don't see it all together and we're talking about circular management as no, something that's going to come, it's a concrete thing, it's composting, your home is circular management, so there's nothing that should be any more technological. Therefore, I would very much like to say, otherwise I did not say, but all those who participated in this work and institutionally and, individually, deserve commendation because this was overly done, complex, so you can see a country that can generate these reports is one advanced country, but the quality of this with regard to the input and the connection to concrete policies can be significantly improved, I look forward to these future times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168122	Thank you. We have one replica, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168123	Thank you very much. Col. Dobrovic, you have mentioned how many are just to separate paper as much energy savings, how much money is it, how much is it saving and forest if we are essentially protecting the environment, however, here is a key problem to finally expose the lie about waste management centres that are represented as a rescue for waste management, and in fact that is death, you have mainly mentioned the problem of Mariščina, which is now visible, and the Lečevica Waste Management Center is essentially a death blow to the environment in the area where we have the most drinking water, drinking water. Solutions by you, please tell by you what waste management centres such as Mariščina, Lečevica, in the heart of the Dalmatian fire, in the heart of the debris, what does it represent for springs and drinking water?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168124	Comrade Dobrović Slaven, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168125	Thank you very much. So they pose a major threat, in fact they represent a disaster, so that beautiful neighborhood, I've visited it, where I'd like to build a garbage center or mixed waste, so in the collection system where neither the recycling yard works, it's a horror, and I really wouldn't want to do that either, or these people who live there, but unfortunately not the Splits because they're going to be at risk, it's a flat area, it's a mole, it's a special story and it's a particularly sensitive area that's being completely ignored, so I'm talking there about protection zones, so it's stupid, is it in two months, if it's pollution coming in, it's constantly threatening, it's just when the first rain will bring it to you who use that water.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168126	Thank you. And now colleague Miro Bulj, Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, fellow Miro Bulj final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168127	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Loncar and Dobrović, the distinguished secretaries with their associates, it is evident that this topic needs to be discussed more seriously in this assembly and that there is nothing to be afraid of because simply this chaos that he has made, it has made him a huge mess, but as I did not allow in Sinj, I think that he should expose this role of his embarrassing role of environmental threat by the ministry. I think that people should go on the ground, those who are experts like Slaven Dobrović who had his ideas as a minister, of course that the apostate mafia had no interest in the management of waste and sustainable development and that we have new jobs and that we preserve the environment but simply went to cut down that man and his ideas, i.e.. a man who has participated in a number of projects on sustainable development, which today have management mainly by waste. They have certain successes and because, as I said, here, I as a parliamentary representative promise to do everything to make Slaven Dobrović and similar experts, mainly Slaven Dobrović, not looking through politics to people in those places where they live, to know what it means to produce this paper, which means to separate this paper, which they know compost, which means for agriculture compost, meaning sustainable development, not to transport the garbage to Vrgorčana to Sinj, or is the same to Brač, is also in Novska where people 100 km will be transported from Zagreb waste that opposes, rebelling, I am sorry that it is not mayor and Mačković, it was not long ago here from that area, Jasenovac, so where we have the mayor of Jasenovac, who is simply silent and supports the threat of Drenov Bok. On that, 100,000 people, Novska, Kutina, that part of that area. Which is why you don't speak openly about this in the morning, for example.? Why isn't the minister here? So what logic is that today when we talk about the environment, it's a good report and the studies that are being done, it's great, and what's in reality, chaos. Well, Split, when it rains, people don't have drinking water in the sphincter anymore. We must therefore bring water into the Constitution as a basic human right. To bring water into the Constitution as a basic human right. Well... Cetina where it flows, where Krka flows, we don't have today, we have numerous households that don't have water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't have water and we have to protect that area for the survival of the people in this area because it is, water is a resource of the 21st century, and not to have Minister Coric come to the island of Dalmatian, Sinski, collect all the mayors and mayors of the Dalmatian mountain and say, Nature Park Dinara, yes, then what are you doing in the Nature Park Dinara, what are you doing along the river Cetina? I had a number of actions myself before I was a parliamentary representative where the cost of a long war industrial, similar to a black hill should have been delayed to a mining site near where I live, but in the tributaries of the river Cetina. Well, a lot of damage, thermal-electric Peruch, and a lot of harmful projects. So who are these people who put these harmful projects of women in Lečevica, like in Mariscina? And they saw it smell, that it went to the ground. It's obvious it's not a waste management centre, but they give those names to be ecological, so let's say what's going to be done in Zadar County right now at the Black Hill somewhere in Biljana, I hear the same thing is going to be done. It's a disaster. It's a disaster. We need to dissipate and expose this bad waste management policy that's in the best interest of who knows who. That's why today we have threatened drinking water, springs, water supply, and there's nothing to do about it except damage. And the stories of hydroenergy, so hydroenergy products I said the most, Cetina produces 40%, which you give us back, garbage from other parts. Up the river Cetina. Well, it's a disaster. We're proposing a non-exclusive economic belt. You're not going to declare it. The proposal was made by a colleague, Slaven Dobrović, to solve these problems and through legal initiatives, you do not want to accept. Tell the Minister that he's the Minister of Environmental Threat and that he's a coward because he's afraid to come before the MPs at the moment when he's not made a mess in all of Dalmatia where there's not a single dump for construction waste, that's what I forgot. He's a man of chaos and disorder. [[/Intruder: Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168128	Comrade Bulj, thank you. This concludes the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2016 and we will vote when the conditions are met. I am also informing Mr. Lonchar and Mr. Dobrovic and Mr. Bulj that we will continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 and, as announced, we are starting to declare amendments to the laws we had this morning. These are laws concerning the activities of the spatial order, and I can still tell you that tomorrow's vote at 12 o'clock. Have a nice evening, goodbye. Good-bye to you, too. Session interrupted at 18.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-30-0.u168129	Environmental report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013 to 2016 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted for the period from 2013 to 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 91 for, 7 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the constituency working body.
