ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139715	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, distinguished parliamentary colleagues and colleagues, the current Drug Act as products of particular importance for human health has established the process of testing and placing on the market the production, labelling and classification of traffic... Quality check, advertising, supply of Croatian medicines markets, as well as surveillance procedures. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That law was adopted in accordance with the applicable EU directives on medicinal products for human use. Directive 2001/83 as amended by Directive 2011/62 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011. Measures are provided to prevent the introduction of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal supply chain by requiring the packaging of certain medicinal products for human use to be accompanied by the safety markings consisting of a unique identifier and the protection against opening to allow identification and verification of the authenticity of such medicinal products. That Directive also laid down that the Commission will, by means of a delegated act, lay down detailed rules on the safety markings of medicinal products. This legislative proposal shall ensure the implementation of this delegated act. Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing the 2001 Directive The European Parliament and the Council by laying down detailed rules for the safety markings on medicinal products for human use which prescribes measures to prevent the introduction of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal supply chain by requiring that certain medicinal products for human use should be placed on the packaging of certain medicinal products consisting of a unique identifier and protection from opening up in order to allow the identification and verification of the authenticity of such medicinal products. The legislative proposal also lays down the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, the provisions on the establishment, management and availability of a repositories system which will contain information on the security markings and enable the verification of the authenticity and identification of medicinal products, as well as the infringement provisions. Furthermore, the legislative proposal contains provisions on the establishment, management and availability of a repositories system which will contain information on security markings and allow for the verification of the authenticity and identification of medicinal products. The costs of the repositories system shall be borne by the marketing authorisation holders for the medicinal product bearing the safety markings. The repositories system is set up and managed by the Croatian Marketing Authorisation Authority, which was set up by manufacturers and marketing authorisation holders whose medicinal products bear safety markings. The legislative proposal also identified the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the supervision of the implementation of the delegated Regulation and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices for the Control of the Repository. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139716	I'd like to thank the Secretary of State, so let's go to the replicas. First mate, Varga, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139717	Thank you, Mr. President HS. I support this as a positive regulation coming from the EU that is absolutely necessary to prevent the trafficking of counterfeit medicines. I have a question about a unique identifier, namely, my question is whether it's a unique identifier for one particular brand of medicine or for one box of medicine. If this is a medicinal product as one whole, then it is because of the prevention of counterfeits only, if it is a unique identifier of the individual box, then it can also be used in the management of the health system that means that it is known exactly which patient took which medicine at which point, especially in hospital healthcare. And ultimately, will this unique identifier and way of marking medicines prevent illegal imports of counterfeit drugs from third countries, what are they doing online today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139718	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139719	Thank you very much. I'm glad you asked a colleague this question. The identifier is what is for each box individually, so that the traceability of that box can be traced from the manufacturer to the end user, which, I think, is the essence of these legal provisions that we want to implement in our law. However, I think that this would also allow for the traceability of medicines from, for example, hospital pharmacies, because they are far the biggest consumers of medicines to the patient itself, that is that intra-hospital heritage that you have so far, we have to admit we haven't had adequate and there's a lot of things that I could say, negatively happen, that's the part that I think is very, very important. And as for the market and the prevention of the entry of counterfeit drugs, it is today a huge problem all over the world, and this is one way to protect ourselves with these identifiers and tracking and traceability from the manufacturer to the end user so that these counterfeit drugs can be less likely to come to the market of medicines, see, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139720	Second replica of my colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As counterpart Varga said, the problem is of course in illegal medicines that can be obtained easily and accessible online today. But the much bigger problem today is that ladies and gentlemen of the Republic of Croatia that drugs are too expensive, too expensive for our pensioners who simply don't have the ability to have adequate health care, who don't have the ability to get drugs and when they come every day, every new day when they come to the pharmacy, these drugs are more expensive and expensive and expensive. And now the question is raised, Mr. Secretary of State, whether in Croatia we have quality health care and quality health care for our pensioners, those who are looking at us now and how this law will allow them to do so. So we need health care for the living, we need to help people to be able to have quality health care that, unfortunately, they do not have in Croatia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139722	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer, please, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139723	I don't think this subject of yours and this question of yours is the subject of today's Law on... medicines, so I would discuss it if I were to leave for another moment and another occasion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is only about trying to prevent counterfeit drugs from entering our market because it is of paramount importance not only for financial but primarily health reasons because no one guarantees that counterfeit drugs are identical and satisfy all the qualities and indicative areas that should satisfy as original medicines. And on the matter of finance, etc. and the health system whether it's expensive or cheap, I think we can talk about it some other way, I'm ready to talk whenever you remember and whenever you get a chance to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139724	Third replica of colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139725	I wonder if Croatia had any more sovereign state. Yesterday we refused, HDZ refused to support the Law of the Declaration of the Economic Belt and today we have a law that reads the implementation of a delegated regulation by the EU Commission or a supplement to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. What is in the interest of the Croatian people is not going to be passed and 80% of the laws that this House adopts are coming at the direction of the EU. So perhaps there is a good proposal to abolish this highest House of the Croatian people because it actually doesn't make sense because all those laws that are in the interest of the Croatian people will be passed and we will bring only what the EU dictates to us. I wonder what this House actually serves if you don't listen to the voice of the people. I don't think this law may be particularly bad, but I think we've become an exposure to the European Parliament, so what does it even exist, so what are we doing anyway?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139726	There's no need to answer that. Comrade Djujic, it's you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139727	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome this law and welcome any solution that will raise the quality of drug control on the Croatian market. But I do have one question for a secretary of state that may not be directly related to this law, but I think it's a very important topic. I wonder if the ministry is doing anything to develop the Croatian pharmaceutical industry? Namely, we have a huge potential for exporting Croatian medicines, for example. In the Arab countries, we have a huge space for exporting Croatian medicines, which would lead to strengthening the Croatian pharmaceutical industry as well. However, only one company that manufactures medicines in Croatia has the capacity or ability to produce medicines for the area because there are high temperatures there, so there is a special procedure for the production of medicines while others do not and this one does not do so for some of its business reasons. I wonder if the ministry is familiar with this problem and do you do anything to encourage the Croatian pharmaceutical industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139728	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139729	Thank you very much. We're going to have to change the subject of today's address. Take care of pharmaceuticals is part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. This is not a direct part of the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health as such must lead to all the details that you have now asked me here, it is part of an economic policy that must meet the standards that these industries that produce medicines must meet on world standards and global markets, given the specificity that every country and every part of the world is looking for specific criteria for imports of certain types of medicines. So I think it's a question of a clean economy regardless of what may be medical products for medical use, but it's a matter of economic operators independent of the Ministry of Health and we don't have any implications for the work of the pharmaceutical industry in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139730	Thank you. If he wants to, Comrade Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139731	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for this very important topic, I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club in order to consult within the club on the aspect of inaccessibility, unfortunately, and because of the financial problems of our pensioners with pharmaceutical medicines or what they would need for quality health and health care systems, which, unfortunately, we do not have in Croatia today. So we have to do a debate within the club to see how to participate in the debate no matter what part of it and this topic that regulates and illegal medicines but a much bigger problem in the Republic of Croatia is that our pensioners, our elderly people, have no quality health care, have no possibility with the funds they have and pensions are disastrously small, regardless of what some representatives here in the Croatian Assembly yesterday expressed satisfaction like Mr. Sokola yesterday that pensions are quality and that they are good and should not go to a referendum to cut... to retire to 67 years, I think exactly the opposite, that should be supported but should be supported by our pensioners to appreciate drug participations as low as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because, unfortunately, people are counting each kuna of their small pensions that are unworthy of life in order to enable quality health and health systems. We witness it every day, people stop us on the road, talk about it, it's just something to talk about in this House, it's just something to stand up to. So it's impossible for us not to mention in this debate and not insist that the prices of medicines in our pharmacies are lower and that they don't change every day, so the pensioners don't know practically when they need the medicine, how much money they need to take with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139732	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. We'll continue at 10 o'clock. It's 9:00.45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.01 HOURS]] If not, then I open the debate and the first debate is the club of HDZ MPs, respected counterpart Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139734	Dear Ministers of State, colleagues and colleagues are here before us a legislative proposal to ensure the implementation of Commission Delegated Regulation 2016/161 of the 2015 supplementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules for safety codes on packaging of medicinal products for human use which prescribes measures to prevent the introduction of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal supply chain by requiring that certain medicinal products for human use be placed on the packaging of certain medicinal products consisting of a unique identifier and the protection of opening in order to enable the identification and verification of the authenticity of these medicinal products. Faked medicines are fake medicines that are mislabelled for fraud as real approved medicines. In July 2011, the EU improved the protection of patients and consumers by adopting Directive 2011/62 of the European Parliament and of the Council on counterfeit medicines for human use. Apparently, even 1/3 of the drugs are falsified or trying to sell in various ways and thus actually get a quick profit but no, with inefficient drugs. The legislative proposal lays down the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, the provisions on the establishment of the management and availability of the repository system, which will contain information on the security marks and enable the verification of the authenticity and identification of medicinal products as well as the infringement provisions for the implementation of Commission Delegated Regulation 2016/161. The Delegated Regulation introduces two new security codes, a unique identifier, a two-digit barricade and an opening protection, which will be placed on the packaging of most medicinal products for human use. The authorisation holders shall equip the packaging of most prescriptionable medicinal products and certain non-receptive medicinal products with new safety markings by 9 February 2019 at the latest. In order to assist applicants and authorisation holders to comply with the new Regulation, implementation plans for the introduction of new security codes have been published. For medicinal products authorised by a centralised procedure on the website of the European Medicines Agency and medicinal products authorised through national, mutual recognition and decentralised procedures. In a complete product authentication system, the deactivation of the unique identifier in the repositories system should be done at the end.../incomprehensible/... when the medicinal product is given to the population. Therefore, persons authorised to issue medicinal products to the public, healthcare institutions, healthcare companies and private healthcare professionals play a key role in ensuring the authenticity of the medicinal product. In accordance with the applicable rules in the Republic of Croatia, the person authorised to issue medicinal products to the public is the MA. Health institutions, health companies which are authorised to issue medicinal products to the public in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation must verify the safety markings themselves and withdraw from use the unique identifier. Those health institutions, companies carrying out health activities and private practices within which a person is not authorised to issue medicinal products to the public should ensure that the safety tags and withdrawals from the use of a unique identifier through wholesale or pharmacy depend on whom they purchase the medicinal product. In accordance with the regulation adopted, proposals for the production of information on the medicinal product have also been amended for medicinal products used in humans.../incomprehensible/... centralised procedure in order to allow the application of new rules. For medicinal products approved through the national procedure, HALMED will publish a new version of the template in a short time. Based on the instructions for the introduction of safety markings on the packaging of medicinal products authorised by national procedure, medicinal products authorised by centralised procedure, distilled procedure and mutual recognition procedure, the MAH should not indicate the national number on the outer packaging of the medicinal product in the Republic of Croatia, although it will continue to be listed in the approved product information. In order to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Organisation for the Authentication of Medicinal Products HOPAL shall establish and manage the national repository using its own resources. Given all of this, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139735	Thank you. The second club of representatives is the Live Wall Club and SNAGE and colleagues Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139736	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the State, and we are talking today about a seemingly irrelevant topic, and these are medicines, but the interesting thing is that this is one of the most important things in Croatia right now. It is even camouflaged, but it is also important and will certainly be very, very much spoken about in the next period if it does not become topic number 1 in the Republic of Croatia. To this end, Prime Minister Zdravko Maric's statement goes in, and I don't know if you followed him on the eve of Easter, so on Saturday, he said last Saturday that the health system is unsustainable, I repeat, unsustainable. It was an attack of honesty, this one may have been thought to be undetectable in those holidays and said he would no longer give meaning to a single kuna. And that's a very strong message that we should be thinking about through this subject, more than exactly through the topic of drugs. Because drugs, drug costs are becoming so much a problem that you won't believe they're practically overcoming the problems of shipbuilding. So we're talking now I don't know about some shipbuilding that causes terrible losses, we've seen that it's billions of kunas, etc., and at the same time we don't want to know, we don't want to admit that the same kind of problem is budgetally we have with medicines that are incorporated into the health system. If you didn't know, in the last 25 years. Health care has been rehabilitated 15 times. In the mandate of this government, health care was given an additional 3 billion kuna 200 million regardless of the money that was given, so beyond budget projections. At this point, the state has a debt of 2 billion kunas, 2 billion 200 million, which is nowhere to be given. I repeat once again, Minister Maric said no more to a single kuna. Are you aware of what this means in practice? Let's go analyze this problem, so it might be clearer for those who don't know. So we have in the Republic of Croatia medicines that are generally not Croatian, so almost all the drugs that the Croatian state buys are foreign origins. Who determines the price of drugs? So, who in the Republic determines the price of drugs? They're determined by the state, so they're determined by the state by their regulations, and we could say great, which is the problem, the state determines the price of drugs, determine the price of drugs that is the state. E, but the state determines the price of medicines in a way to take the prices of medicines in Italy, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, divided by 3 and that is the price of the medicine in the Republic of Croatia. If the individual medicinal product does not exist in these three countries, then the replacement price is to be taken by Spain. In Slovenia, prices like in Germany, similar, in Italy are better off not to mention what standard is there. And now what's going on? We form the price of medicines in the Republic of Croatia towards rich countries, so, according to rich countries. And thanks to that, prices of medicines in the Republic of Croatia are more expensive than in any neighbouring country. So the price of the drug is far more expensive in the Republic of Croatia than in BiH, rather than in Hungary, than in Serbia and other countries in our region. The price of the medicine in the Republic of Croatia is sometimes 15-20 times higher than the price of the same medicine, the exact same medicine in Russia. You can't believe that even the sumamed that is produced in the Republic of Croatia is 50% cheaper abroad than in the Republic of Croatia. So, theoretically more is worth you going to buy a sumamed in Russia and bring it to the Republic of Croatia and resell it, than buy it in the Republic of Croatia and sell it in the Republic of Croatia. That's how you deal with the price of drugs. We lose up to 150 million kuna annually, watch out for 150 million kunas per single medicine. Isn't that, isn't that just too scary, scary wasteful? Every hour, gentlemen, if you didn't know, thanks to this government policy, the Republic of Croatia loses 800,000.00 kn. So since this debate started at 9.30 p.m. until I finish this speech, the Republic of Croatia has lost 800,000.00 kn. Can you imagine that? I know it's weird for you, but I'm glad some of the former health ministers are here, so they'll either confirm it or they won't. And you can't do that in any way, he tried to resuscitate Mr. Varga by removing HZZO from the treasury, said he had black on white that the debts would be settled after that within 60 days, were the debts recovered? No, they're not. 2 billion HRK 200 million is still waiting to be charged. Furthermore, the important thing about drugs, we have, here we now heard during the discussion, copies and original drugs, that copy is officially called generic medicine, so, generic medicine. It is now important to explain what is the original medicine and what is a generic drug or a copy. In order to obtain a patent, this original medicinal product must be studied until 15 years of age, so one drug is studied up to 15 years of age. The drug is tested on thousands of animals, and then it's tried on thousands of people to get that medicine into the market, so it's sold. A generic medicine or a replacement medicine is patented for 3 months, it is approximately mixed with ingredients such as the original medicine, tested on a few dozen animals and humans, such as up to 40, 50 and then sold afterwards. It sometimes has the same effect as the original medicine, and sometimes it doesn't, sometimes it has ugly side effects, sometimes it doesn't have any effect, but it doesn't matter. In the Republic of Croatia, most of the drugs that sell are, therefore, generic, it's a copy, it's not an original drug. So now, what's the problem? The problem is that in any developed country of the world you pay a copy 10 to 15% of the original price. So if the original medicine costs 100,00 kn, you will pay a copy of 10 or 15,00 kn. In the Republic of Croatia you will pay 80,00 kn, so you will pay the copy, the generic medicine almost the same as the original medicine and there Croatian citizens, patients, cheat in a multiple way, and the worst of all, is the Croatian state itself. And that is why these terrible costs arise, I repeat in the attack of honesty, even Zdravko Marić, and no one is talking about it, and no one, as it is called, is doing anything concrete to create guarantees that this big budget problem, or the big problem of the Croatian state, will finally be solved. And worst of all, this situation where people don't get quality service creates deep mistrust in the health care system, and, if you will, in the country itself. Just take this last example that we have, say, witnessed in the past month, that when Minister Kujundzic sets up a fund for expensive medicines, the state fund, that no one is paying anything in that fund. No one. It's 20, 30,000 kuna. When one parent says, I need an expensive drug, citizens collect in seven days 35 million kuna. Is there a greater expression of mistrust for the Ministry of Health than that? Ask yourselves. Why didn't anyone want to give money to Minister Kujundzic, and why did they all give money to a single parent's private account? So, in Croatia, the system simply doesn't work. I didn't just say I, hard and Minister Maric, repeat again. Because we don't have a whole health system but a particular one where different stakeholders are fighting each other for their own profit, and it's all at the expense of the Croatian state and what's worse, patients. It's not the problem of knowledge or people, but it's the problem of organisation, information, system decoupling, different elements that often don't communicate at all. Often with the price of drugs is suitable, so there's extremely strong corruption, I could talk for days about the corruption cases I've heard about, which I've heard about in the system, it's also a big problem. Where you keep buying these drugs that are most expensive, here I have, let's say, one example, I'll say in particular at one hospital, just so you have a little picture where someone on the computer blocked all the drug manufacturers except for Bayer. You can't click anywhere, you can just click on Bayer. The nurse noticed that this computer was wrong, this software, which already, went to the hospital director, told him that you couldn't click on another drug, let's say... Belupo, which I know, which besides Bayer, he said and what you're messing with where you don't belong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That Bayer is paying us seminars, paying us, I don't know, perfecting, keeping quiet, minding our own business. There, so to you, it's just one of the hundreds of examples I've heard of, which Mr. Plazonic knows in the end, but there's no reaction. On drugs, we give HZZO 24 billion kuna a year. He's on drugs. 25%. And I understand, and I understand these big druggies that say that the state doesn't want to pay them 500, 600 days, but at the same time tell me, did you ever hear that one big drugstore went bankrupt? That she had problems, that she came under the roof, the blockade, that she didn't have a positive balance at the end of the year. It's not. It's not. So that's not really true. What's worst of all, a huge part of these drugs being issued, they're completely unnecessary, so the drugs are sold, look at the newspapers, look at the TV, look at the radio, half the commercials are just for drugs. Count to 10 and you are guaranteed that of those 10.5 is for medicines. People are allowed to carry medicine bags. They wear 10, 20 medicines, and they're told they have to drink, and the man always needs only one medicine. One medicine, not 15, 20 medications. All he has to do is copy it. Look at the garbage dumps how many drugs are being dumped, so today it's an ecological problem. Look at your shelves at home in drawers, in refrigerators, I don't know what, how many drugs are there. Well, we are so sick that we have to drink every day I don't know, 10 pills and 20 preparations. They trade with our health. They trade with our lives. For what? For profit. For profit. Where will you find 2 billion and 200 million kuna, Mr. Plazonic? Where are you gonna find five years from now again the five billion you've spent? How do you end it? These are questions the Croatian public expects you to answer. How can you allow the situation, here, just tell me one last thing, that one of these same manufacturers gives each hospital another rhubarb? You know it's the same. Each hospital pays for a different rebate once and for the same supplier. Isn't that corruption? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139737	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139738	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Of course, here I am, and I asked myself, should I as an economist speak on exactly the subject of health care, but when we look at the problems that arise, they are primarily economic. This topic that is opening today actually comes from what the market that is supposed to be functioning is opening up places for mating, and also, here are medicines and many other products, which we are aware of. However, where does the greatest intensity occur? It occurs where the largest space, where, between production costs and final sales prices, we have the largest range, there everyone can find and also those who go forge and they can, sometimes and in smaller series because we're talking about manufacturers, who produce drugs really big series. All those who know the volume of production, it is clear that along with some patented medicines, and also those that are most spent, which I think are probably the most affected by counterfeiting, a solid profit can be created, and when we talk about medicines that come into our market, we talk about world-renowned companies, which, of course, also worry about the medicines that, meaning counterfeited someone on their behalf, are taking care of who manufactures it. And then we need to ask ourselves where these plants come from, who can actually make them, and for a long time they're working and delivering drugs, that at the end of our big drugstores, because through them most of the purchases are done, especially those big purchases, where we said that we should be in hospitals, and that we should be careful whether there are new labels that will be, and then we wonder how a big drug that specializes in supply can even come into the situation of getting the cure at an unknown source. That's where we have to ask the question, so how do those who are first in the chain ever come in such a way as to go to contact a suspicious source? If we're making purchases from a Bayer, then we know who Bayer is, where his seats are, where his production plants are, and it's hard to get something that isn't theirs. So we're talking about not just marking something in this chain, but we're also going to have a problem with that chain that's working now, it's going to adapt. We will bring, transpose this one directive, eventually the chain will adapt, and we have not or will not manage to solve that particular key problem. And this is a question that comes from the economy, it's actually based on these very economic values, and then we ask why there's this space in our country. Well, there's space primarily, if we see how prices of drugs are defined. I have prices for medicines that the ministry, right, that's the highest price that's being determined for our market. A colleague of Bunjac's said what the parallel countries are, some others are listed in this series, from which it is seen, which is some sort of the highest price possible. What I can't agree with him, he said, can't change. Of course it can change, if we look at the find of the State Audit that our healthcare institutions carried out a review for 2016, then we would know clearly where the problem arises. Each of our health care facilities gets most of its medications. Something very little is obtained through some united procurement, and then I ask the question first, why do they even happen to get individual ones? Here, Secretary of State, I know what the domain is, that they have, they can make decisions on their own, or they can founder, which in this case has been transferred to the county, it can happen. Then I ask the question, if I have two hospitals in Vukovar-Srijem County, so in the city of Vukovar and in the city of Vinkovci, why don't they get it united? We also have a common founder. The main state audit found that the 23 million-dollar hospital in Vukovar, I'm talking now. supply of medicines and consumables, as much as 20 million purchases directly per so-called as they state, the reference prices. But I'd say it's more reference than it's possible to afford prices. There are about 30 million kunas in the vinkovary hospital, somewhere 28 are supplied directly without public procurement procedures. And that's what you look at, you'll find in every hospital, almost every hospital, here, I apologize, I won't say every single one, the one I looked at in a row, they all had the same comment of the State Audit, and in the end, who's responding to that? If anyone's running any administrative procedures, let's see why it's happening. Did one of the founders get into this, why isn't he getting on public procurement? So if we have certain maximum prices, then we can also say public procurement, one of the suppliers would be in a position to offer a lower price of the drug. And if we pass on this generic, so the lower price of the drug, at the end of it is the lower price, and in the parallel part, whether it's through the hospital or through a health facility, it's also being poured over, and according to the pharmacies, all offers are lower prices and we're reducing space for this kind of corruption, actually, the fraud that we're trying to prevent right now. So we have that moment. Then we get to the second moment, all the time, so I'm not talking about health because I don't think I'm competent here, but what I'm talking about right now, I can certainly say responsibly that it has to be done, and that's dealing with the debt issue that HZZ has to do with health institutions and their ability to pay. The wholesalers themselves have recently been protested, found that the total amount of debt has increased to about nine billion kunas, approximately, here, I quote what I remember from these allegations, and that they are in debt to finance such debt, and all of this is passed on to pharmacies. Of course, out of those duties they are smaller than total debt, means they engage their own resources and they put it all into the price of medicines and we come up with a situation where we again have pumping drugs in a way that we are actually responsible. And no one can explain to me that, for the protested shipbuilding guarantees in a few months, we can pay some 3 billion kuna, and that we can't cover one good part of the debt, I mean by this, that that's how we've been determined to settle our debts towards HZZ and to help that, to close all our obligations to large-scale drugs. In these agreements, we would probably achieve a lower price, get to a certain use for advance payment we can see that we are able, if we can pay one, we can do another, if we have surplus in the state budget if it's real, we're always talking accountingly, we might turn out to present the surplus to the public, and if the money in reality is not, if the surplus is real, then why didn't the decision of this government is made, we go with this surplus that's left, we go to cover the debt to the Veledrogeria, we solve one of the problems, we achieve a lower price, we get to get paid regularly which is then going to achieve lower prices, these are all the elements when we talk about the market of medicines that affect and this topic which is now. If we lower the price of drugs on the market then it'll also happen to us that there's less room for those cheaters trying to get into the market with paved drugs. And what's happening to us? It happens to us that people primarily living in border areas, which we have a lot of because we have this kind of divorce border, cross our borders, buy abroad and often come into contact with paved medicines. Will we, I don't know, from BiH or Serbia who are not members be able to ensure that there are no such medicines? Somehow, under the vista we pass that medicines such as these are very grateful goods for smuggling, for reselling because human beings by solving their problems in health are turning towards getting medicines and we see that lately, the prices of medicines when we have, here are the cases of children with whom we have been solidarity and we have provided them with treatment, how much the prices of medicines can be high, especially when you have medicines that you have to use often, which are not actually from the one group that is allowed medicines, and then they are dealing with them in various ways, and because of the fact that we have a system that has not made it possible to get in touch with paved medicines, and instead of helping their family member, they actually bring him into one situation where he's only cheating, and the disease is progressing, and it's getting harder and harder to stop. And I say again, let's start with the findings of the state audit that clearly established it, but it seems to me that a simple state review can list it X times, review it, determine what's missing? It remains that institutions, which I primarily think of the Ministry of Health, which should push it down, are not doing their job. Just imagine if we had a Minister of Health who would say every little in front of the media that let's go gentlemen that, ladies and gentlemen, let's work it out, don't do it anymore, as you can get it. Imagine, if you don't think it's possible for a minister to come to visit a hospital, so he tells the principal, and in front of everyone, the director doesn't go this way anymore, what you're doing, directly disrupts the system, and then you come to the ministry, to the government, and you're asking us to cover our debts, and they're not right themselves, and it can't be that we just say Minister Kujundzic, State Secretary, or whoever's responsible or the government or the finance minister, which they didn't provide drugs when those looking for them didn't create an optimal system for getting medicines and pay more than necessary. And if someone could explain to me that along with the system of such institutions that are specialized, who have high knowledge of the drugs they get from the Veledrogery which they are very, I should say and I think they are very serious companies, enters a pacified drug, then we really have a situation where corruption has permeated the entire systems and then somehow would agree with counterpart Bunjco when he says don't take too much of it, don't deal with it because many of our costs are paid out of it. And so, it's much simpler for me to say that I don't come from a health care system that can talk about it, but those who were, maybe now and on certain duties and should go back into that system, you know that they will be watched by just the ones who are trying to control the system when they call them. Imagine a minister who has a term of office for a few years, where he attacked the Veledrogeria, and then after he's finished, he goes back to his post, he must be a favorite, and that's exactly what's our key problem, that when everyone knows I have to go back to where I'm going to be at the mercy of those who try to do it again. We simply don't have the strength to resist, we don't have the strength to solve key problems, and now we're going to put one more label on a box of medicine. Have we settled this? No, I don't. Then the secretary of state will say that, but you've passed such a law in HS, you've transposed that directive into our legislation, what are you complaining about now, why are you being dramatic about it, why are you talking about it, so you're the ones who run it, why haven't you changed it the right way? How do we change if the state audit has done its part, if the Ministry's knowledge has, if the county has that knowledge, if there's the whole government and here's now and everyone who listens and doesn't do anything about it, nobody's doing anything about it. Then whose responsibility is it? Then we should discuss here actually the minister's responsibility, let him determine perhaps from his associates who is responsible, perhaps there is someone in the field, but let's more determine the name and last name of those who are responsible. If someone hasn't gotten the drugs properly, who are these people by their name and last name? If someone has not paid according to health institutions in due time, let us determine who is in HZZO or in the Ministry of Finance. If the minister knows all of this, he hasn't done anything, he's got his own name, but somewhere we just have to move, because this way it'll turn out that more of me as an economist can talk about this and try, than those in the health care system are acting on certain duties that need to be invested, effort and knowledge to improve the system, and they're not doing it. We will support this directive and implementation, but we are only talking about the problem is much, much deeper than it is presented and honestly here I have not heard any officials talk about the problem of determining what the State Audit has found and how this applies to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia than then we all get lost when the wholesalers say we will no longer deliver drugs because the debts have gone beyond all the measures. And all of a sudden, it's just that there's no money, but it's not just about money, it's about people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139739	Thank you, we are now moving on to the individual debate Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, gone, Branimir Bunjac, gone, Ivan Pernar, gone and Gordan Maras, gone, so everyone loses their right to debate. Is it possible the Proposer wants a final? No, then we came to the end. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law implementing Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules for safety labels on packagings of medicinal products for human use, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 596. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for that law is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 121 A.D. and one abstention and one conclusion is that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139742	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable Mr. MPs, you have before you the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The main reasons for the adoption of such a law is the government's dissatisfaction with the public's state of road safety, especially with regard to the number of people killed and injured on Croatian roads. Not only is the problem of the Republic of Croatia a European and world problem, so in the EU in the area of 28 current Member States, 25,100 people died in the last year 2018, the EU average of 49 people killed per million, so 49 people killed per million. In the Republic of Croatia, that number is unfortunately higher than 77 people killed per million; therefore, we are in a not-so-good 4 place in the Republic of Croatia, so worse than we are only Romania, Bulgaria and Latvia, and we strive to get close to those who have far fewer deaths than the average, such as the United Kingdom, which has 28 dead, Denmark 30, Ireland 31 and Sweden 32 died per million. Certain results have been achieved by a national road safety programme which has drawn out that during the period 2011 to 2020, so in the 10-year period, the number of victims, the dead, the seriously injured will be halved, unfortunately, we have not yet reached it, but the number of victims compared to 2010 in 2018 was lower by 26%, so we had 99 people killed per million, and last year I repeat 77 but we have not yet achieved the planned targets. In addition, in the opinion of the applicant for these amendments and additions, the insufficient effectiveness of the current criminal sanctions is also insufficient. Namely, we hold that it has not been achieved, achieved no, not deterring the perpetrator from repeating illegal behavior. Furthermore, the most serious and dangerous traffic offences against road safety appear to be rough and frequent in the relapse. Many manage the vehicle while the driver's license has been withdrawn, regardless of the number of infringements found under ban. The mobile is used improperly during the ride, the safety belt is not used especially in the rear seats, the children are transported illegally in the vehicles, that is, all of them, those behaviors that we think should be changed and one package of different measures leads to people respecting regulations in the field of road safety. Therefore, the objectives that are to be achieved are to reduce the total number of traffic accidents and casualties in them, to achieve the main objective of the national road safety programme, or to have a maximum of 213 deaths at the end of 2020, to neutralise traffic users who cause the most serious traffic accidents, to further influence the awareness of traffic controllers on the need for consistent and strict compliance with traffic regulations or to deter them from re-infringing the most serious traffic offences, to temporarily withdraw the vehicle from the minimum duration of the protection of motor vehicle management in the light of the number of repeated infringements within the time frame of a criminal offence, thus preventing their further participation in traffic, for the most serious offences, the minimum duration of the safety of motor vehicle management in relation to the number of infringements within a time frame by means of a criminal law, this is to simplifying the safety of the driver's safety of the driver's safety of the driver's safety of the driver's safety, and the vehicle's safety of the driver's safety of the vehicle, which will be used. It's defined there, though 98% use, at least a safety belt. To influence safer transport of children in vehicles and to increase quality, transparency and objectivity in the process of passing examinations from the teaching course of motor vehicle management in auto-schools. Oh, so I'm going to say something in more detail to these goals. However, when it comes to road safety, in addition to these measures laid down by law and other regulations, which are more or less repressive in nature, I must point out that police action is both preventive and preventive. So, primarily preventive and that Croatian police implement a significant number of preventive programmes in accordance with the national road safety programme, you all know the preventive action of police and partners who have been carried out for more than 20 years under the name Respect our signs and is primarily focused on the safety of children in traffic, and especially on children who go to school, in their first, weeks of school. The action is based on activities from the national road safety programme and, let's say, last year, a total of 31 preventive and educational activities were carried out towards lower-class pupils of primary schools in the area of all counties in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to preventive activities, the Directorate of Police in cooperation with the Faculty of Transport Sciences of the University of Zagreb and other partners in 2018 developed a package of preventive measures involving various publications, videos, audio, video watches, stop traffic accidents, which refers to the safety of children in primary school areas and many other activities within the project. I would also single out the Edward project, which is marking the European Day without being killed in transport in 30 countries in Europe and being implemented by the European Transport Police Networks, but in addition we have a whole series of preventive activities intended for certain groups, so the project is a secure driver's license, which consists of educational workshops intended for fourth-grade high school students, which are the ones who usually start taking driving exams and become participants in the coming months, active traffic participants and as drivers, not only more as pedestrians or cyclists. Then the Good vision for traffic safety which is intended for the oldest traffic participants, then I have the right to safety, it is a project that is provided, aimed at persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups who are thus empowered to participate more safely in road transport. There are therefore projects designed for the smallest, children in kindergartens and other different groups. I'm going back to, therefore, this paper from the bill that's on your benches. One of the amendments that are proposed is an increase in the amount of fines for the most serious offences and they are consistent with the severity of the consequences of traffic accidents. Such a measure aims to increase the awareness of transport participants on the need to comply with traffic rules and to adopt rules of conduct in order to reduce the offences that directly put drivers and other road users at risk. Therefore, based on analysis and data on injuries and the most dangerous behaviours in transport, the task force has decided on 8 of the most difficult, traffic behaviours that can lead to or lead to the most serious injuries and, for those 8 serious violations, which are actually passed through the law as a lightmotive. So, it is proposed to increase the fines from the current 5 to 15 thousand kuna to 10 to 20 thousand kuna. These are infringements of driving in the opposite or forbidden direction on the highway, fast road or road intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles. Another such offence is the excess of the permitted speed of movement in a populated place for at least 50 or more km/h, otherwise, due to the speed in, was unrecorded or unadjusted, in the last year there were 7475 traffic accidents, which is 22% of the total traffic accidents, but what is worse, in these traffic accidents, therefore, due to irregular or unadjusted speed, it was killed, 158 people were killed or half of all killed on Croatian roads. The third infringement, which is proposed by the most severe sanctions, is intended to pass through red light or pass through red light without reducing speed, so when increasing speed or passing through two or more red lights. In such accidents, 12 people were killed last year or slightly less than 4% of the total deaths. Then, there is the offence of refusing to submit an examination to check whether there are alcohol or intoxicating drugs in the organism. The fifth such a serious offense is driving under the influence of alcohol above, in the body, therefore, above 1.5 permeations and driving under the influence of drugs. Such violations where alcoholism was greater than 1.5 promil were found in the last year 7344, and in the last year they blamed these alcoholic drivers 4.131 traffic accidents or 12.5% of all traffic accidents that occurred last year, and unfortunately 72 people or 22.7% of the total deaths in the last year. Furthermore, the next violation proposed to punish the strictest sanctions is the management of the vehicle before obtaining the right to manage, so whoever did not pass the driver's test did not get a driver's license. Then vehicle management while driver's license has been suspended due to collected negative misdemeanor points. And finally driving until the driver’s license has been withdrawn, while the driver is excluded from traffic or has been granted a temporary withdrawal of the driver’s licence or a safeguard measure in 2018. There were 3,714 violations. For these sanctions other than that, fines are provided for and prison sanctions for up to 60 days have therefore not been affected, so it remains the same as in the applicable law. When we talk about the levels of fines they've been raised for some other serious offenses, I'd single out three here that are very common and also fatal. This is not the use of the safety belt during the ride, where the penalty would rise from 500 to 1,000 kuna, and it would have found that according to the survey carried out under the national programme, 61% of drivers and passengers are not bound, and I apologize to 61%, so 39% are not bound, and only 14% of the passengers on the rear benches, so the rear seats don't do that. Car crash last year left 30 traffic users dead, which is 10% of all killed. Unfortunately, and tonight, we had one of those, one of those serious car accidents with four people killed in the Vukovar-Srijem County area where this was the same cause of death. Furthermore, there is an increase in fines for unlicensed children, the unlicensed transport of children in the vehicle also from 500 to 1,000 kuna and children as a particularly sensitive group is becoming more and more vulnerable as, therefore, in the capacity of passengers in vehicles, of course children can suffer as pedestrians, but we think that there is much more to be done by binding or prescribed children in car seats, or as already prescribed in the rules of the manufacturer or in relation to age, height and weight of the child. And for improper use of mobiles while driving is proposed to increase from 500 to 1,500 kuna because it is definitely found that the use of mobiles and other modern means of communication in vehicles significantly increases traffic loss, although lately there are also unexplained crossings into other traffic lanes and very difficult consequences of such traffic accidents, and that there should be something to do shows that 91% of drivers phoned during the ride, and that makes 33% of cyclists. Others, therefore, there are increases in fines in some other offences where awareness and behaviour of, for example, do not stop at intersections or spring crossings, where we have many victims from, when introducing a row on the highways where we see that many drivers do not respect the regulation to drive on the right track rather than driving left and the like, but with sanctions here, certain preventive activities are taken to ensure that people and drivers are instructed how to properly respect the law and traffic regulations. In addition to sanctions, we hold that for these 8 most serious traffic offences it is also necessary to prescribe safeguard measures, the applicable Road Safety Act was not mandatory, so their length is therefore proposed for these most severe infringements the minimum duration of the protection measure for the management of a motor vehicle, depending on the number of repeated infringements within the range determined by the Infringement Act, so within 3 years, so that the driver who has been found guilty of any of these offences will be found guilty of any of these infringements, some of these safeguards will be imposed by a ban on the management of a motor vehicle for a period of at least 6 months, if the offence is committed for a second time and at least 12 months if the infringement is committed third and every subsequent time. The next area where we felt that, where the applicant felt that there was a need to intervene was to prescribe and increase negative infringement points in a certain range for the most serious infringements. The maximum number of non-compliance points is not touched when, for young drivers, a different range is determined for other drivers, and the number of negative misdemeanor points is increased for these most severe violations that I have initially committed from 3 to 6, so that is to go through red, alcohol greater than 1.5 prominences, not stopping at a police sign or driving without a driver's license, and negative misdemeanor points for some other serious violations are increasing. So now whoever's a relapser will be able or will get a minimum of 6 months if he's committed another crime. Then, one of the options proposed to prescribe this law is the possibility of confiscation of a vehicle as a means of committing road traffic offences aimed at the driver who thus behaves to be aware that the vehicle is a dangerous vehicle if not used in an appropriate manner. In this way, vehicle owners are obliged not to place vehicles on the use of persons for whom they have not previously checked their ability to manage and meet certain requirements relating to vehicle management. Thus, it is proposed that, until the court is due, the decision of 15 days may be taken by the driver if he has already been fined at least twice, and again, for the 3rd time, some of the eight most serious infringements mentioned above. Furthermore, in practice, it has been observed that dangerous traffic accidents occur due to non-compliance with the safety gap between the vehicle on the highway where it is very dangerous because of the speed and this bill requires that on the highway the driver, when moving behind the other vehicle, must be driven in the same lane at a distance that is not less than the distance that would pass at the speed he drives in 2 seconds, so these 2 seconds are the safety distance. This is in line with practice in some other EU countries, and police will determine this standard by measuring the laser from a suitable location, such as overpasses and similar places. Since the quality of drivers is conditioned of course and the quality of education in car schools exist as we all know that safety is acquired by some experience of driving, but this initial part of education in car schools is crucial for the quality of drivers and road safety and therefore an obligation is introduced to audio visual recording tests from the teaching course of driving which is viewed in the ability to better monitor the performance of exams, to monitor the work of authorised interrogators, to analyse and evaluate the process of passing the driving test as well as to identify objective facts that preceded the test results. As I believe you know the education of drivers in our country is conducted by authorized car schools, and the exam is conducted by the Croatian Autoclub. This recording therefore has certain, certain rules and it is not intended to collect personal data but only to control tests in order to increase transparency and the quality of its laying. Finally, since I have already mentioned the possibility of checking whether someone is giving a vehicle to another person so that it can be checked whether that person is under certain measures or even a permit, the possibility of verifying the driver’s license on the MUP’s website is introduced. In this way, it will be possible for the authorisation authorities to verify the status of the driver’s licence by electronic means by means of a serial number, whether it is valid or not, and then the existence of a protection measure for the management of the motor vehicle, the existence of a safety measure, safety measures for the management of the motor vehicle and the existence of any negative fault points. We believe that in this way, for example, the owners of transport companies, rental-a-car agencies and other business entities, whose business consists of giving a vehicle to use or driving a vehicle for them, therefore, will be able to provide them with quality and accurate information whether they can entrust that vehicle to the persons they are looking for or who are working for them. These are the basic changes the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes in this law and our permanent goal is to reduce the suffering on Croatian roads. Here's the data on the 90's injuries from last year. We see that both the number of seriously injured and the number of fatalities dropped almost every year with very small exceptions, but although we started from the 90th of the 1360s, we came to 317 last year, there's still a lot of work ahead of us. I call on you to make your quality suggestions, so that this bill will be influenced by the fact that Croatian roads are safe for all who drive them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139743	Thank you very much. Before we continue, we will welcome the students and students of the University of Zadar, the Department of Teacher Studies in Gospić, who are upstairs at our gallery. ... Now we're going to continue with one, maybe even a record number of replicas, we have 16 so far. [[Applause.]] The first will be a respected representative of Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139744	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State with an assistant. In my individual debate, I will refer to the provisions of these amendments themselves and the additions, but I am interested to begin with, I think these amendments and additions are heading towards punishment and to warn those who repeat the most serious traffic violations, but with these dragon penalties that are now prescribed, i.e.. cash penalties for violations, I think that the prevention and prevention programme of the MUP have even more effect than the fine itself, so I'm curious, is it possible that you have information about the financial effects of the payment of fines on violations in the state budget, and how much of this is allocated to the prevention programmes of the MUP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139745	The answer of a respected secretary of state, or shall we do it later?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139746	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I don't have the exact data here right now, here, the amount of fines paid, it's certainly big, but preventive activities are financed from the regular funds of the MUP, it would be good if they were, of course, bigger, but we're going to make sure that, for these activities, we allocate as much funds as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139747	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139748	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Katic, you have listed in your opening statement the number, the number of traffic accidents and the number of fatalities as one of the main motives of amending this law. I always support the strictest punishment of re-deposits and those who often repeat violations, and I will say my vision throughout the law in my individual debate, but what I am interested in right now is your opinion. Do you think that this large number of traffic accidents and a large number of traffic tickets, one of the main causes is a low penalty for traffic offences or a bad rolling stock in Croatia? So the average age of the rolling stock in Croatia is 14 years. Four hundred thousand vehicles a year fall due to faulty brakes on technical checks. Is this perhaps the main cause of a large number of fatalities and the number of traffic accidents, and do you think that changes should be made in this direction? To reduce taxes on new vehicles and burden Tax old or finally, here's a concrete proposal. [[- Intruder: Dear.]] Banning Vehicles older than 7 years in Croatia. [[Intruder: The Answer Respected.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139749	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139750	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. This tax issue is not in the jurisdiction of this, the relevance of this ministry and the law that we seek to reduce the number of traffic offences. Certainly the quality of the vehicle, as well as the quality of the roads with the education and consideration of the driver, all together affect safety. I would say, however, that the highest number of road casualties contributes to the ignorance and unculture of the driver and that is the most work to be done, and of course, it would be good if they were better cars and better roads, but I think that, when it comes to roads, we've done a lot. We still need to do, of course, make the driver's licenses better, dress up, and respect traffic regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139751	The next replica is the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139752	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my fellow MPs. I certainly support the tightening of sanctions against reckless traffic relapses. However, it is also time to deal with pedestrians, especially cyclists. Believe me, I'm more afraid of cycling than a tow truck. While I'm on the sidewalk, I fear for my own life and my health, and while I'm in the car, I fear for the life of the cyclists themselves. Ear headphones, a cell phone in his hand, at full speed, bumps into a walking passage, regardless of whether it is green, driver and most cautiously difficult to, as he says, see the corner of his eye as it approaches him. So I think these things should be dealt with, first of all, education, and then, of course, sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139753	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139754	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The goal, of course, is that I'm first, and that's why I'm trying to support these goals that you've set. But repression isn't prevention. Let's do an experiment of thought extremes. So when you introduce the death penalty for the most severe perpetrators, do you think that the rate of reduction of the mortals would then be greater than the rate of increase in these executions of death sentences or would later convert that number to some value far above zero. In other words, the repression will not result in the desired effects, believe me, you will not do this repression. How did you get those numbers? Why the increase in the exact amount of fines? With fines this is not, this is a layered problem to be approached, as you said yourself, and you are not now, I'm sorry, you apologize to Croatian citizens, you said that because of the unculture and yet another expression you used, the driver, it is not true, there are many problems in the Republic, but it is not safe to define it only through a non-culture driver, there will be words in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139755	The next replica of the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139756	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the ministry, road safety is the public interest of all of us, and therefore I use this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that this is the ninth amendment and the addition of the law and that this should go to one whole approach, not just a fragmentary one, because we are losing the meaning of the law. As for the penalties themselves, the increase, etc., I am only saddened by the fact that this is not justified by some conclusions of impact assessment. So I use this replica to draw attention to the need for a social dialogue, maximum and lots of concrete and clear proposals came by e-consultation, please respect that, first reading. I also invite you to respect at least these laws that are of public interest to all of us, the law-making procedure, and believe me, we won't be wrong. So we throw out the punishment just for punishment, but that must be the concrete consequence of the clear consequences of impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139757	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative, Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139758	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, state secretary, according to the Home Secretary's report in police affairs in 2107. According to the police last year, 722785 traffic violations were detected and issued warnings, fines or criminal charges. Also in 2017. According to the DORH report, only 1604 criminal charges have been raised and 1461 against adults, 122 minors, 21 against minors. It is also evident from the type of criminal offences that 1402 applications have been filed for the cause of a car accident, and only 28 for an adjudicated driving or 1.9%. I think the practice should be for all re-depositees. to file criminal charges. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139759	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139760	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you and we are aware that the law itself will not contribute to road safety and it is good to discuss this and to raise awareness first of all of us traffic participants and I am glad that you mentioned prevention and education from elementary, from kindergarten to the oldest age of all of us who are involved in traffic. However, road infrastructure needs to be addressed. It's sad that it only reacts when a death case occurs, an example of the crossings around Karlovac, and when it happens that parents rebel against the fact that trucks don't want to go on the road, they go on state roads. There is also a big problem at the border crossings, in Stari Gradiška and Slavonski Brod, it must be dealt with urgently. It has escalated now for these holidays in Ilaca and for crossings towards Serbia where citizens simply cannot live because trucks avoid the highway and go on state and local roads. I don't think it seems enough to help citizens to live in these areas as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139761	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139762	Dear Mr. President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, I welcome the adoption of this law as a good intention to achieve greater road safety. But I think that a drastic increase in fines will not contribute, and that it will have great repercusion on the citizens themselves because the fines are completely disproportionate to citizens' incomes in the Republic of Croatia. I think that you should have made a comparison of most of the penalties in some other countries where the receipts are far greater and you would have come to this that this increase in the fines you have intended, I support absolutely for the most severe offenders of the relapse, but for some of me not so severe violations that you have stated, an increase of 100 or even 200% simply is not durable for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I appeal to you and to the ministry that until the second reading of the law, it is considered that these penalties are still balanced with the remuneration of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. and comparisons with other countries. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139763	The next replica of the respected representative of Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139764	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, here I have listened carefully to the introduction, and I am glad that I have come to a number of other knowledge, related to the prevention that is not listed here in the amendments to the law itself. A very important measure seems to me to check the status of a driver's license which will check the power by electronic means for, therefore, Croatian citizens. I think it will be important to prevent it, especially the use of the vehicle in those who repeat the offences, therefore, and who are essentially disabling the use of the vehicle. I would like to know if there is a possibility that we can also introduce this verification, given that many resolutions are being introduced by the European Parliament in order to reduce and improve traffic safety and foreign citizens. So, to make some kind of agreement and arrangement when even foreigners come that they can also enter into the system and at the time, especially renting a car from the rent-a-car to make it impossible for people who are also foreign citizens to come into possession of the vehicle if they are previously sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139765	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139766	Dear Mr. MP, this, therefore, possibility is now being introduced for, of course, the owners of Croatian driving licences, but given the significant number of tourists and travellers in the Republic of Croatia we plan to extend that measure to foreign nationals or owners of foreign driving licences, but this is a long road and a job, but we intend to go and make it possible and that means, for foreign citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139767	The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, numerous news has passed the law, one of the news that may have caused doubts in the Croatian public was the possibility of temporary withdrawal of vehicles for repeated repetition of the most serious violations. Since it is a matter of confiscation of private property to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the issue of an assessment of the constitutionality of such a law has been raised. However, since, as you yourself stated in your introduction, it is a matter of temporary confiscation by the police within a maximum period of 15 days, within which the criminal court or tribunal is competent to take a decision and the decision of the Croatian judiciary, I consider that such a provision is good, but that it is necessary to take into account clearly the way and the time limits in which the court will, in that case, decide to take that vehicle away from one side and on the other, to take care of the way in which those vehicles are taken care, since it is nevertheless the property of the citizens in order to end the property If it is returned, it will be returned in the condition in which it was taken away. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139769	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139770	I thank the Secretary of State, I think this law will make the police's repression too great. And I'm in favour of repetitives like the rest of my predecessors, especially in the case of rides or such serious violations of fines drastically, but I think this law gives too much authority to an officer in the field. This often sanctions those traffic participants who prepare for the welcome. Here's a picture of where the checkout is done, and for 80 or 100 kilometers it pays 1,000,00 kn, that's certainly not good. I am much more to use the existing possibility of criminal law, not just that a police officer on the scene charges drastic penalties. And I'm much more for prevention, prevention, prevention and prevention, and only then repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139771	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139772	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Katic, I absolutely support these major penalties for serious violations if they will result in greater traffic security. Examples of speeding out of the inhabited area are proposed penalties from 5 to 155.00 kn and up to 60 days in prison. But I also think that we should think about our police officers who, I think, are the most important road safety factor, and we should also provide for penalties, greater penalties to protect our employees, and here we see that in 2017. We have 1546 violations of non-stop at the mark of a police officer. It turns out that a single traffic sign has a stronger punishment than the police institution that we need to empower in a further period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139773	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139774	Thank you. Dear Mr Katic, before the Party we change Croatia I welcome every effort to increase road safety and I have listened carefully to your report and the part where you talk about repeaters, meaning, violations, these are people, whether they are obscenities, adolescents, adults who have money, who have good and strong cars, and who have already committed a misdemeanor, we do not have a precise report about it, you suggest on behalf of, so the promoter of 60 days in prison even. How many of these people did they really end up in jail? And on the other hand, beware, there will be no great penalty for them, for these are men who have money. So it's that here in traffic, in traffic, every country shows how much justice works. There are people here who can never commit any crime and go to jail. Last year I was driving in America, a few days [[Intruder: Thank you]] There you can see how that country works, right. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139775	The next replica of the respected representative, Pera Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139776	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. In your introduction to the law, you also spoke of the safe transport of children in a car, the material shows that five children were killed, four children were killed because they were not properly bound and you said that parents should follow the instructions of the employer. We know that we often inherit car seats, not to say from generation to generation, that they are donated, and often these instructions are not printed or faded in seats, so simply parents do not know how to bind those children properly. I think you should oblige the legislator to open a website that all those who put on the market, to say, if not the manufacturer, then the importer that on that website must have instructions about his product, those who do not have it, should be punished if they sell such car seats and all those car seats to which, I say, the deadline and the way... Security, you should have a notice that [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] are not in use, that children are properly bound. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139777	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139778	It is very important to know how to use chairs properly, and in this sense, police work preventively with the Roda Association, therefore, the parent association and educate them on the correct use of car seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139779	Thank you. Before continuing, let us welcome the gallery of members and members of the Association of craftsmen from the Križevci who follow our work. ... And now the replica opportunity will be given by the respected representative Ivica Misic, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139780	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary, this law, which is proposed today, I believe there are reasons, but also these penalties so far we have, I think they should have been more, more police should have been on the road, on the roads, and especially in the cities, and also in Zagreb, but I would suggest since I am on the highway often, and this is the most broken by foreigners, the truth, those who come for Easter, for Christmas, that's something to do. Here the other day I went through the tunnel where I was driving 100 is a restriction, 100, went at least 150, 170 through the tunnel. And the other day we had an accident in the tunnel. And there's cameras in the tunnel. And why can't we use cameras to punish these same people? We have cameras, we need to set up as many cameras as possible. And the fines aren't very small until now, but for the big ones, for the big rides and the fast ones on the highways, that should be severely punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139781	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović, a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139782	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State Katic, Your Honor. My replica comes in terms of the issue of comparing ourselves with Austria because last year, as far as I know, the Vienna Parliament adopted an international agreement with Croatia, Bulgaria and Hungary to facilitate the prosecution of Croatian, Bulgarian and Hungarian citizens in terms of traffic violations because they calculated that around 2m euros per year are losing due to the inability to charge foreign citizens. So out of 5 million traffic violations a million wastes to foreign citizens. And now we know that one EU guideline has allowed several years to actually be prosecuted from Member States by foreign offenders when they commit an infringement in the EU Member State. Does Croatia plan to sign such an agreement with other countries as Austria signed with Croatia, which means that we pay the fine when we commit a violation in Austria will the parties also pay the penalty when they break Croatian law here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139783	Thank you. Are we gonna have an answer or not? The answer of the respected Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139784	Dear Madam MPs, as I answered one question earlier, we also plan to allow the prosecution, i.e. checking the data of foreign citizens then and the collection of fines, but I say it will probably not be so soon but we will do everything we can to do that sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139785	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. What is commendable in this law is that the profession on the part of the university, traffic sciences is involved and that the profession in principle did not have major objections to the amendments to the law. They say everything could be done to increase road safety in a relatively short time. What's interesting about the law is the introduction of audio and video recording, auto-school exams to balance the standards and criteria of driving tests, Article 34. The amendments to the law itself are very restrictive and penalties are increased several times, new violations and punishment are introduced. For example. The distance between vehicles, mandatory use of light and day-driving is now defined for the period from 1.11. to 11.3. and is no longer bound to the summer and winter-based calculation of the time that may soon be abolished. So the law itself is very restrictive and it would not be good if the law itself serves the legislator or government as a charge of the state budget. So we've all mentioned here in replicas that other measures should be implemented rather than just repression. We believe that the system is both human, vehicle and road. The repression is just one of the elements, the second element is education from primary school so practically for the rest of your life, to increase the culture of driving in traffic. It is of course necessary to work both in primary and secondary schools in learning and increasing transport culture. What will cause a lot of storms, probably and later in an individual debate, is Article 39, which is amended, Article 229 of the original law and introduces a precedent of temporary confiscation of the driver. For the most serious offenses, it's if they've already been punished by at least 2x. Although the media mentioned variations that this is illegal and even the counter-constitutional profession is clear and believes that ownership rights can be limited and that some of the objects that seem to be a dangerous action can be taken away. Of course, it should be careful to set limits by applying these instruments. The fact that so far all the penalties have not had an impact on the most difficult relapsers. This provision does not apply to ordinary relapsers but to those with the most severe violations of alkolisis, going through red etc.. This Article further regulates the responsibility of the owner who places his vehicle on someone else's control or increases the penalties for enabling a vehicle to be operated by someone who does not have the right to drive. What I would have noticed as a citizen of the city of Zagreb as regards traffic safety, that our safety in the city of Zagreb in transport, in the city of Zagreb, is being resolved by the appointment of the passengers, i.e. the so-called Lying cops. So there's no street in my neighborhood where there aren't any of those slow-downs, and those slowdowns, or lying cops, are sometimes higher than European stand-ups, and I don't think that's the answer. So those lying cops are somehow endangering the technical features of the vehicle. So I think we need to find some other solutions. And what I also noticed excessively, in my neighborhoods, is here in particular also in the western part of the town of Semaforization of the settlement. Thus, modern Western countries use rotors, i.e. circular currents, and in small neighborhoods, and we have large traffic lights. However, when you create a circular current, or a rotor, you can no longer work on it. in light of this, someone always maintains these traffic lights and spends huge taxpayers' money on the city's citizens specifically in this case Zagreb. So, what I would like to point out in the end, what our citizens see is that every law and this law will not bring any effect unless it is applied equally to everyone, which means both to the Minister and to the MPs and to the sons of the tycoon and to the so-called. to ordinary citizens. What citizens see, which is that the judiciary here is a problem, that we will now have a very restrictive law that will punish our citizens financially, but that unfortunately this law will not apply to everything equally. And that's kind of a bad message to our citizens who then look and say, so if a certain man who committed a certain offence even with fatal consequences and I don't know that item goes into oblivion, so he sort of, so the legislator sends a message and our judiciary sends a message that the law isn't equal to everyone. So I think that these changes, we're going to see which ones they're going to bring, we're going to support them in our first reading, but there are much deeper problems about traffic safety and we think that this restriction so this excessive punishment won't solve these deep problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139787	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Petar Škorić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139788	Dear Vice-President, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs here we have heard in the introduction of the motion, the introduction in essence of the amendments to this law, we have heard also objections, observations are changed every little bit, complemented, etc., but the number of traffic accidents is not significantly reduced, traffic safety is not increasing and, in accordance with this and in accordance with the implementation of certain regulations and the perception of deficiencies, things need to be changed and changed, all things cannot be predicted, but when we see the fact and situation that Croatia, therefore, is behind Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia, the next country by the number of accidents, so we see that we need to change some things. Also at European level, the European Parliament's numerous resolutions point out not to the importance of road traffic, to various technologies that are trying to raise the quality of its operations to reduce the number of traffic accidents, to reduce the number of victims, therefore leading to a near disappearance. And that's why I'm glad to be passed this law because on the one hand we're all sensitive when the fines increase, but on the other hand, when we hear that particularly re-regists, so the people who have committed a large number of violations, all kinds of dad's sons, I don't know the driver in Split who runs over the student, then the alarm happens, then the question of what the state is doing, what the police are doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, etc. And it becomes inconceivable to us how to prevent it and how to reduce it. I'd like the same from the State Secretary's opening statement, we've heard that police are investing a lot in prevention, that they have different forms since the beginning of the school year, over a series of measures that are being implemented, and that the emphasis on that, however, we see in the law that there is only beating, so there are fines. I believe that even in the preparation of this law, it may have been necessary to apply measures in a balanced manner with the existing plan of action, to present another preventive action plan, and in a certain way people would have made it easier and would have taken such measures. However, when we enter into the very core of this law and the secretary of state mentioned the elements, so it is about the violations of one of the 16 most severe measures, so the main reasons are certainly to reduce the number of victims and injured persons and to apply them to the most common, brutally making the most serious and most dangerous traffic offences. All of this we heard from the introduction of the national road safety programme, which, which we want to achieve next year, is a maximum of 213 people killed in the measures proposed, we see practically certain newspapers, on the basis of the exposure that this national programme recognises which segments are the worst, so we require the achievement of 98% of the use of the safety belt in the driver in the vehicle, only 61% of the Croatian drivers and passengers are tied up, in the rear seats, so below 14%, and we saw that when they were killed only last year that 30 people were killed to that end, and the goal is essentially only with that measure that measure that we can achieve as much as 10% less dead. As a good example, good practices would lead to the introduction of protective helmets for motorbike drivers. We know to the extent that few motorists wear helmets and we also know that today is rare to see a motorcycle driver without a helmet. So if it hadn't been for such measures, if it hadn't been for restrictive implementation, we certainly wouldn't have had that effect and we know that motorcyclists suffer most in traffic accidents. So also about this protection belt measure, I think, no matter what the big increase is, I think it's good and it's justified. And here's also to the fact that almost 91% of the drivers are on the phone while driving. The colleagues mentioned both the number and the cyclists and the motorcyclists, when the headphones don't hear, they don't feel at all what's going on in the traffic, what kind of danger it's creating. It would be interesting to make technology develop and some abuses grow, sometimes just phoned, people have handsfree, they have headphones, and it responds to such a form and does not represent any particular giving up, interference from driving. But today we have more and more cases of people writing and texting, surfing on the Internet, reading e-mails, etc., we know how many seconds one distraction causes accidents, and it would be interesting if there, too, could be categorized, and that it also sanctions people in a different way from the usual phone call to the use of some other things that are more burdensome. What we've been shown through this, so through a public debate, it seems to me that 31 people or a legal person have come forward with their observations. We expect, because today it is the first reading that the promoters will listen carefully and listen to our presentations here and hear what the public expects. But the fact is that 55% of the drivers showed their willingness not to make a phone call if the fine was bigger. So surely that's one incentive to go with a measure like this. Here in a very good way it was made not to repeat the harmonisation of the number of certain violations per section in relation to the number of victims, so here is the resolution ministry prepared in quality. And it's good that I said in the introduction that this law refers to the most essentially in terms of this increase towards multiple perpetrators, who, where this form is trying to eradicate, so the average driver, the one who adheres to more or less regulations, will hardly come under attack from some of these larger measures, I'm not talking about the belt and the phone call. And the phasing out of punishment is guaranteed, so a warning and all. It seems to me that the only way through, the overrun in a populated or somewhere more than 50km, or more than 30 km, is that there are no steps and it might not be bad to consider the possibility of graduality because it can happen to anyone, but when it happens, people will take care of it. And there are also good measures to erase the penalty points so that still through the long driving career people have the opportunity to strengthen that consciousness and be model drivers. As for the most important changes that are proposed, I will only look back on what I mentioned on the issue of the regulation of safeguard measures with an article. In practice, it defines that persons who have received on several occasions a safeguard measure to be defined in a specific way that is prescribed by law by that time and to allow the police to act. And a ban on running motor vehicles for at least 6 months if the offence was committed for the second time or 12 months if the offence was committed the third and next time. And in this way we will practically avoid those who appear in the media by 100, 200, 300 violations we will exclude them from traffic and increase security. As for the number of negative breaking points, I think that's a good measure for those who often break, we know after 2 years that these points cancel out, and the average driver who adheres to the rules if he even happens to win which broken point quickly, will quickly return to zero. Most of all, I think the dilemma is causing a story about the temporary seizure of a vehicle as a means of committing a misdemeanour. However, when they become deeply engrossed in reason and method of application, it is practically evident that this measure is intended primarily for drivers who keep repeating and the most serious offence. I'd say a vehicle should be watched in the same way as a gun, like a knife, or any other means of murder, when it's in the hands of someone who doesn't follow the rules. In this way someone is practically sanctioned and sanctioned if someone borrows a vehicle over which there is a ban on managing it. You won't give someone a gun if they've already abused it, etc... So you shouldn't rent-a-car, no one, no father, no mother, if they know you're breaking regulations. And there's a degree projected here as well. So if a person is at least 2x legally punished for a particular act then a temporary vehicle is taken away. I see that this is regulated, we've got some clarifications and on the committees that they've supported, so these committees have supported this one to go into these amendments to the law, and so that until the second reading everything we hear and supplement. However, from all of this data, the disproportionateness between the number of applications filed by the police and the number of legally ruled so, and practically with this regulation, here is the concrete confiscation of the vehicle and the judiciary is forced to bring its measures within 15 days, and it would be good that here and in the judiciary a level playing field for the same acts, so people are not motivated to suggest here with their mechanisms and regulations a single measure of regulation, and on the judiciary that it is often different, in various light circumstances, that this banalises and leads to it, it is not practically motivated by someone not to break these acts further, but here I believe that this will be corrected by good co-operation. The safety gap is also good, so different speeds and different distances are certainly not one on the highway, stay close or somewhere at a speed of 20, 30, and I believe that it will also be regulated so that we are not trapped, that some colleagues mentioned that police are setting traps so somewhere in the column this is not known for 2 seconds while a man is waiting for a matter of distance and a half a meter might be appropriate, and on the highway a distance of 100 meters may not be suitable so, but well you have mechanisms and ways to do so. It is also good to record this audio, video exams from the teaching course, we know that there have been a lot of difficulties, complaints, performances, etc., with that here from the car school we got here was one, one proposal practically to, with the communication between the students of exams and interrogators allow the recording and instructors. Because we know that during the course of the exam and the duration of that training, during 30, 35 exam hours to acquire and certain communication between the students and the instructors and that the instructor may, in a significant way, contribute to and reduce the voltage of the employer when it is found in front of the instructor and I think it is good that, here when it is already done to include that instructor. And what I've already said through my council, through my own, through my replica, I believe that the biggest benefit according to the recidivists is allowing the driver's license to be numbered, so a cop can also have no specific checks, but everyone else whether it's a car rental car or anyone rents a car, check that driver's status, is it a person who has certain protective measures, such as, the existence of breaking points, and all in all, I think it's very positive and I suggest that this be coordinated as soon as possible and try to resolve with the international exchange of these data, and in that sense we absolutely support the proposal of this law in the first reading. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139789	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, the Road Safety Act is only one part of a system mechanism that should have a simple objective, and this simple goal is to reduce traffic accidents, resulting in the reduction of the victims, or those who have suffered serious physical injuries, or those who have died in those car accidents. However, the Road Safety Act cannot be the sole holder of the national preventive mechanism, it cannot be the single holder of a national mechanism that should lead to a reduction of traffic accidents, and we unfortunately have a situation here. The road safety law, or the drastic increase in the penalties provided for by it, presents us as a way to lead to what we have heard, which is a drastic reduction in the deaths in traffic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm afraid that's not the case. Allow me to continue my presentation by quoting the provision of Article 6. Infringement law, and Article 6. Infringement law speaks of the general purpose of criminal sanctions, so it says. That the general purpose of criminal sanctions is to ensure that all citizens respect the legal system so that no one commits the offence and that the perpetrators of the offence are shown in the future, act accordingly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, filling the state budget, and filling the state budget is the primary measure provided for by this law, is not intended for the purpose of criminal sanctions, in fact, that filling the state budget should be the last measure, the last reason why we are making any decision and why we determine a certain sanction. But it's the opposite here. And we go after the old and more times, repeatedly downgraded the thesis that increasing the level or increasing the severity of sanctions will lead to a preventive effect or reduction of those who do. Dear colleagues and colleagues, several times, it has been found through scientific research that if on the one hand we put an increase in sanctions or tightening sanctions, and on the other hand, the certainty that the sanctions will, even if low, be imposed, have a far better effect. It is precisely a certainty that the punishment, even if it is pronounced, will have a far greater deterrent effect than the high penalty, which, because of an inefficient system such as the Croatian system, will probably never be spoken of. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the greater effect has a fine of 100 kunas that we all know will be given, rather than a fine of 2, 3, 4 or 5 thousand kunas that we are considering avoiding its payment. But you don't have to stay just on what I'm saying, it's very easy to reach across the border for certain examples in other countries and check how it works in those other countries. As an example of how to compare our current system with the penalties in the Road Safety Act, I chose Germany. In the Republic of Croatia, we have over 9 deaths per 100,000 people in transport, the number in Germany is much smaller, more than double smaller, we have about 4.5 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. However, I will compare the penalties under the current law to those in Germany. For example, to exceed the speed outside a populated place of 20 km/h in the Republic of Croatia is today a fine of 500,00 kn. Do you know how big it is in Germany? EUR 30.00. For 40 km/h in the Republic of Croatia is a fine of 1,000,00 kn, in Germany 120,00 EUR, for 60 km/h under the current law in the Republic of Croatia is a fine of 3 to 7,000,00 kn, and in Germany, 240,00 EUR, far less penalties than in the Republic of Croatia, far higher wages, far better receipts. And look at miracles, far greater respect for regulations. I think we all witnessed, not once when we crossed the border as did our drivers, but also by crossing the Croatian state border, by entering Slovenia, and even more in Austria or Germany, they suddenly begin to respect the rules, and when they return to the Republic of Croatia nothing. And why is that? Well, not because there are more penalties in Germany than in the Republic of Germany, but because in Germany you know that in Germany, it will also be 10, 20, 30 or 40,00 EUR. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a certain amount of punishment has far greater deterrent effect than the level of punishment itself, and it has always been known, but always when we don't know how to respond to the problem we have in the Republic of Croatia, we reach for what? We reach for an amendment to the law and reach for an increase in penalties because the fact is that in the Republic of Croatia there is no certainty, yes, certain shifts have occurred, for example in the conduct of infringement proceedings. The direction developed by my colleague Orsat Miljanic a few years ago has led to far greater charges of criminal penalties without taking a misdemeanor proceedings before the court, hence dispensing of criminal courts, the misdemeanor courts are now far more effective, the cases are almost never going into stalemate again, and it works far better before it worked 7 or 8 years ago, but it still isn't enough, and why? Because a whole series of offenders don't get caught at all. And why don't they get caught? Because in the Republic of Croatia, we don't have systematic traffic surveillance, we don't have control, it's left to individual police checkpoints, so if the police can't control the traffic on a particular stock, there's no control, there's just no control. The organized countries don't work that way. This law that we're discussing now will not have the effect the government wants, it doesn't mean that the law in its total is bad, the law has good proposals. For example, what my predecessors talked about as part of the car school should certainly be supported, in my opinion, and the part relating to the negative points, I think it's quite well solved and these are segments to be built on because the negative points are a great system of prevention because what you know tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, if you've bought them enough, you'll have to go take a sort of test, be exposed to shame, waste of time, etc., will have a pretty good deterrent effect, but only an increase in sanctions won't. It will, however, have a rather harmful effect on those who break the law here and there because of a mistake, not because they too will pay fines that are drastically increased in their total amount. Except in rare situations, the Road Safety Act doesn't make the difference between you having broken the 20-time rule of speed for 20 km/h or having done it once, the punishment is always the same, the penalty for each one is the same. And in that part, we of the SDP Representatives Club cannot support the law in this form in which it is before us. If there was a shift that we talked about, if this part that applies to sanctions was fixed, we could do it in the second reading, but in this form that is now before us, we can't support it. However, we will not only stand on criticism, but we will also propose a few measures that we believe would be far more useful than this increase in the sanctions we are now discussing. First, we all talked about it and it is the basis, not just for road safety, are prevention and education. Greater investment in preventive educational and security measures is the best way to prevent accidents. Simply, we will come to the situation that citizens are aware of why certain restrictive measures exist, citizens must be aware of why a certain road has a speed limit of, say, 70 or 80 km/h because, for example, a certain bandage at higher speeds simply cannot be overcome, and that restriction is not here because someone was the boss to set it up, but it is there for a reason and we have to simply teach people about it. The second measure is aid and incentive to change the rolling stock. It is not a fact that the rolling stock in the Republic of Croatia is old, however, age itself would not be so bad that it is not also associated with low quality. We have recently read and received one frightening information that over 400,000 vehicles in the Republic of Croatia do not have modern brake systems. Contemporary braking system for traffic safety is far more dangerous than the speed itself because you do not have an adequate brake system, especially if it is about conditions such as rain or etc. And besides that on the bad traffic, you won't be able to stop, not even when you're driving at the speed prescribed. Therefore, the next step that the Republic of Croatia should take is to design a systematic programme that will lead to the reduction of the age of the rolling stock, including, as counterpart Djujic had previously spoken, and with measures that would prevent the Republic of Croatia from becoming a dump for old vehicles from Germany, the Netherlands or other Western European countries. However, as I have already mentioned, not only are they driving the problem, but our roads are also the problem. Therefore, the next step in a systematic, national road safety programme must be a programme to restore dangerous roads. For years, there have been black spots detected in our traffic, these are the places where traffic accidents have often occurred because of this or that reason. These places must be an absolute priority in restoring the Republic of Croatia's transport network, security above all. Of course we all want a comedian, but security in this case must have priority, and these very black spots must be the first places in which we will invest our money in order to resuscitate them. The next measure related to our rolling stock is the revision of the work of the station for the technical examination. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is a public secret that vehicles that should not pass during the technical examination are passing vehicles that simply do not meet technical requirements and are insecure in traffic. It thus poses a danger to those who drive or drive them, as well as to other road users, because, for example, because of the poor braking system, as I mentioned earlier, they can strike and cause both death and other serious consequences. Sometimes it is due to the poor work of the Technical Review Station, however, too often due to the payment of bribes of 50 or 100,00 kn which happen regularly in some technical inspection stations and people know where they can go and beat up some 50,00 kn and pass with a car that should not pass a technical examination. It is up to you, dear fellow MPs, to review it and to prevent such things from happening. And for the end, and with this to end, a measure which is the Republic of Croatia, in my opinion, is in fact necessary to introduce a far greater number of automated control systems. Dear colleagues and colleagues, they're cameras, cameras, they don't know their grandmothers, they don't know their uncles, they don't know their ministers, they don't know their godmothers, they're totally impartial, they work 24 hours a day, they shoot, they record anyone who goes over speed in a particular area. With a network of cameras such as developed countries, the Netherlands, Germany, more and more and Slovenia would ensure the implementation of those penalties and those sanctions provided for and the existing Road Traffic Safety Act, I compared you with the penalties, not that they are lower, they are more than those in Germany, in Germany they are respected, in the Republic of Germany no, but in Germany every mile, two, you have a camera, so you see if you're going to chase where it's forbidden, you won't because you don't want to pay that 10.00 EUR if you don't have to. And the consequence of respecting the provisions of the Road Safety Act is not only safety, it has far greater positive effects on the Republic of Croatia's economy as a whole, it is ecological because at smaller speeds, it is less fuel consumption, it is less exhaust emissions into the atmosphere. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Road Traffic Safety Act must only be the last link in the national transport security programme chain, however, the government put it first. We at the SDP Representatives Club can't support it at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139791	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is one of the independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139792	Thank you, Vice-President HS, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, we from the Independent Representatives Club, myself personally, hope that my two colleagues, we will not support this legislative proposal, we cannot support it because simply this legislative proposal will not achieve the goal that the promoter has imagined, which is to reduce the number of people killed and generally injured in traffic. Namely, the applicant showed diagrams from which it is clear that from 1994 until today, the number of persons killed in transport has been reduced and the number has been reduced due to the various measures implemented, in addition to that by the national transport security programmes and the measures implemented by that programme. However, what does this legal proposal essentially suggest? He proposes an increase in repression, the repression will not achieve the desired goal. Secretary of State, you won't achieve the goal of repression. Although just one detail, if we look at the fine that you're proposing right now, which is bigger than the fines so far, then in their section they overlap, if you have a punishment from, say, 3 to, 3.00 or 5.00 to 15,000.00, you're now proposing 10 to 20, then that part of 10 to 15,000.00 and now overlaps, so why didn't you give it so far? The basic thesis of this debate is that the repression will not achieve the desired effects or that I will immediately say, here I will support this law under the following conditions, let the penalties be even more drastic, but let them be of a percentage of the salary, let it be a certain percentage of receiving every citizen of the Republic and another measure that would be even better, let it be included, these measures that you want to implement, be included in the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, so let those who violate regular or real traffic violations, let them pay special insurance amounts because they are more risky in traffic because in traffic other than property loss, there is a violation of the health of drivers and other participants in traffic, so in this way the health system suffers. So, the penalties you are proposing are inappropriate to the standard of Croatian citizens and they are not good and that I am just going to go over it when my colleague, Peja Grbin, mentioned Germany, there are shares of highways on which there are no speed limits, I will repeat again, there are road shares at which there are no speed limits. Germany is now considering introducing a restriction, but only because of environmental protection, not because of this high-speed threat to human life. And you know why? Because quality roads, good and quality cars of newer production certainly affect traffic safety and the government needs to think about it. What's mentioned in this law as one of the elements is certainly the speed of movement. However, Proposer, can you guarantee a citizen of the Republic of Croatia if he adheres to regulations that he will not be killed in traffic? You can't promise that. The police will do their job in such a way that they will record speed, that they will punish those who drive too fast, I agree with that, especially if it's in the settlement, if it's a speed of over 50, over 50 km/h, but I think it's a much better measure of what we already have, in many places the cameras are set up, people know that there are cameras and these cameras act preventively, regardless of whether it's recording or not at that point, there are etc. traffic lights, pedestrian traffic lights, which are lit when overrun by a certain speed. Such technical solutions will achieve far more than self-pressive, drastic, repressive measures. The safety belt and safety helmet, a paradox occurred when introduced, with a significant increase in the use of the safety belt, namely, there was an increase in accidents and fatalities in traffic. Why? Because we must not take any measures, by introducing some measures and later predicting such penalties, by convincing citizens that they themselves are already certain, that he is a citizen by putting a safety belt that he is safe, he is not still safe in traffic, he is increasing his safety, but he is not sure, and therefore again I believe that the repression... It's not good in that part. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you showed the diagram, if you look at the number of deaths in traffic, is, for example, impossible to explain the sudden increase in the number of fatalities in 2003. And in 2008, at the 2008 and 2009, experts still don't know why it happened. Why am I saying that? There are certain unknowns that we cannot involve in any legal solution. I don't criticise this law just because I'm in opposition, so I criticise it because you suggested it, but I assure you, you won't achieve the effect, only in people you continue to cause fear, there is, let's say, we don't have a Central Police School, we only have training in car schools, so, within technical culture, there's only one hour of a week where otherwise you would be contained and traffic culture, today, and the minister here announces this in the system of education introducing new IT technologies, we can, through basic education, through secondary education of people more significantly trained, and even there are games and through some simulations a way that people are already, children at an early stage meet both issues and traffic rules and it's not well said if, perhaps you're thinking about those who are starting traffic offences, it's not true that our drivers are uncultural and that we don't know that we't. I drive regularly on the D2 state road, that's a road that goes from Varazdin to Osijek and continues towards Ilock, I don't know if you were driving that road? Well, art rides that road when you have 10 tractors, 15 big trucks, then you just have to have driving skills in art to ride that road and I think our drivers are good drivers. The police, I like this part of my colleague, the coat of arms, who pointed out to the police, and he must have systematic, systematic monitoring, that even drivers know there will be police in certain places, and they will be controlled and no one has anything against control. Jumping out of what buses, police chiefs if they give cops standards, I'll call them punishment standards by now, that's not good stuff, work on it. The police are just saying that security and trust must have this mutual level of trust between citizens and police because it is ultimately in the interest that these goals you set for yourself and this law that they really do come true because without achieving these goals we will still have a large number of deaths, especially those most vulnerable, which is not good at all. One of the things you've listed in your speed explanation is certainly taking advantage, as one of the biggest causes of injury. Take a look at the ride in the City of Zagreb, Zagreb doesn't actually have a modern road, what we call a tour of the City of Zagreb today, is no longer a bypass, there people drive regularly to work and from work. We need to build roads technical solutions that will increase security and thus succeed in achieving the goals that we have set for ourselves. Most of our fleet is older, of course not dependent on the MUP, this is what the entire government should do, not just this government and all future governments to increase the standard of citizens in order to then repair the rolling stock. There are, of course, medical care during and after car accidents. We had a case, here we discussed in HS when they were abolishing emergency medical teams, it's not good, in rural areas you have that golden watch, it's hard to respect it because the ambulance will come if there's no team ready. Many things that are not only on the burden or on the back of the MUP, but certainly concern traffic safety, construction of modern roads, improvement of the rolling stock and, of course, education and prevention of drivers themselves and general traffic participants. And once again, please Secretary of State if you can come in later, answer those prevention committees in municipalities and cities? It was a very good solution, and there was a lot of information, and there they knew who they were breaking all the time. They've gotten information about who's driving through the settlement regularly, and the police with this knowledge can really get that kind of people, so I'm going to have to take myself out of traffic like this. Instead of citizens having the feeling that the police are stalking them, that they want them, that the only goal that someone here has said is to fill the budget, this kind of action through contact with police officers, and through the Council of Prevention would make the citizens realize that they and the police are on the same side, and in this way the level of awareness and then the security of traffic would increase. Once again, I would like to say with these measures that we can support, and that's what my colleague Grbin was saying, it's certainly about the penalty points and all that's conditioned by repeating, by constantly repeating traffic violations, we can't do this kind of drastically increase in punishment and support. And as for the withdrawal of the vehicle, I don't think that's the happiest solution for the citizens or for the state that's going to make those vehicles. So that these vehicles don't happen again if they stay in permanent state ownership and that citizens who are blocked anyway so they can't pay for it so we have even bigger problems. So, first of all, prevent the repression and get it out of this law and we'll back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139793	The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139794	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's me listening to this debate of my colleagues who spoke before me, and most of them from the ranks of the opposition have kind of expressed doubts about the quality of this law, which seems to me to be fine. In fact, while attending the Transport Committee where we were talking about this law, there was no impression that there was some controversy about this law. But here is the debate today, and I took part in this debate on the board, and I have just said some of these doubts that are the subject of which colleagues from the opposition warn, which is whether this law will win that primary goal, which is to increase road traffic safety in a way that is less likely to be killed in traffic accidents. And that's what the primary proposal of this law is about, I'd say by a dragonic increase in penalties for certain traffic violations. We're in the GLAS and HSU, our club, that this law won't get the results that are expected. And I'm going to ask the secretary of state again what I asked on the board, and that is whether certain analyses or data or possibly research or experiences of other countries that would directly lead to a correlation mean these legal proposals, or these penalties, with a reduction in the number of deaths in traffic. And whether it has been applied and achieved within the EU in this way. What I could personally explore through and inform myself online and in direct conversations with people dealing with this problem, there is no direct correlation. There are correlations, but when the overall society is organised in a way that wants to interdisciplinaryly approach this problem and when it wants to influence this problem from more than one position and, above all, through education and through prevention and through the prevention of people in which it is appropriate to behave in traffic to avoid the worst and these are fatal accidents. This bill seems to be a single attempt that we will finally see if it is adopted I suppose it is here with the intention of being passed by the majority for which we will see within some year to two days whether or not it has had any concrete results. Our opinion is that concrete results, or especially not drastic results such as these measures that will be applied will not be. The data suggests that, for example, in the Republic of Croatia, there was a drastic reduction, as these were drastic differences between 2000 and 2014. This was solely due to the fact that previous, or governments that were in power over that period invested in roads in the Republic of Croatia. So today Croatia is relatively well covered by highways, highways, and it certainly contributed to road safety. Some plan next to some government should be to decentralise funds or to allow revenues to local and regional self-government to be arranged and state roads in our counties that are significantly burdened, as well as county and local roads to raise road traffic safety, that would be the real move of a government that would certainly lead us to the figures we want, and the figures we want are below 300 killed for Croatia, meaning for our population below 300 killed per year in traffic. This is what would satisfy us and something that would be within those frameworks of the strategies that we have brought about traffic and road safety. Of course, we would like to draw attention to the fact that, if we were to include more significantly, meaning county, the MUP, the Ministry of the Interior of the County, means police administration, that they should be strengthened by human beings, I don't know what people we think, or the government think, or the competent ministry thinks that the Ministry will be able to do this job and significantly reduce the number of dead in traffic by accessing means, more significant punishment, which, of course requires a greater presence of traffic police, I don't know which way, since we don't have enough personnel, and it's not likely that we will have them since young people in Croatia don't decide very often for such interests for various reasons, most likely because these are not easy interests because it's working with people, and most of all unfortunately conflict, or application of law, the most often in Croatia, it is the resistance of those who are the perpetrators of offenses, so this job is not the most popular work inCroatia , and wedo n't have to use any moremoney , so we't usemoney. So, by including local self-government counties in this problem, i.e. to help the MUP and the PU traffic police carry out their activities, is one of the ways that these numbers that are not beautiful, which are too regrettable, to be reduced and yes, while not going in a way that the state is a beating that is exclusively and only a beating with which we are going to hit the citizens when they seem to have gone a little too far, and then we're going to punish them in a way that we take away their property because cars are their property, that we can even take away their existence in some situations. We know very well that the car, or vehicle, is often a means of work for many and not only for those who are involved in the transport of something, but for transporting themselves or communicating with the car. The most normal thing, not even one but a few of them in the family was driving and more drivers in one family, so really, the vehicle is the daily need of a man and when you take away the ability to use that vehicle, very often you take away the possibility of actually taking away his existence. So, I don't think that through this law it's looked good enough, and otherwise I think the state has taken its part of the right that you shouldn't always take, which is that it can do what it wants. However, the Prime Minister has told us on many occasions by visiting this House that he can do what he wants, and perhaps so do his ministers and those who propose such laws, but it is not so or at least on the long term because these things and these laws usually bring her back as a very bad boomerang back. So we won't support this proposal. It takes time, of course, for the ministry to consider, first of all, reducing these dragon measures, and then having a little talk and all together within all ministries that are responsible for complementing the strategy and to see what can be done interresorically, inter-resortly, to reduce the number of deaths in transport, to invest in education and prevention, in education that can be done, to see what can be done in the infrastructure, there are colleagues already mentioned. So, it all costs, of course, but much less human lives, therefore, to see what can be done in quite concrete steps in prevention, education, education, investment in infrastructure, and only in the end, if none of this seems to produce results, that eventually goes with increasing penalties. As we heard in the previous debate, penalties, the level of penalties is not in line with the reduction of numbers or accidents or deaths in traffic, and we have to keep in mind, and this is definitely the beating of citizens on the head whenever anyone remembers they will take action, not to say the hack, and it is known that and knows how and how and how and how from which bus-drive cameras the money will be taken away from, and maybe even the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so this law is not by any chance, and until the second reading, we can see whether proposals will come from the ministry that will be in the direction of keeping those penalties at the height at which they are, we think that they are absolutely appropriate, and all of this other things that you have proposed, both of them, and not only to help them, and not only to punish them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139795	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club and Democrats colleague Zeljko Lenart, please welcome colleague Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139796	I thank the Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, this bill is unfortunately not a fruit of scientific research, but the sole purpose of it is to fill the state budget as many colleagues have concluded before me, and for this very reason the HSS Club and Democrats will not support such a law as was put into the first reading. Unfortunately, these dragon penalties that are predicted to reduce the number of people killed on Croatian roads are certainly not going to do so because we have already had such huge increases, and compared to other EU countries as well as here's a colleague of coats compared, our sentences are quite large even though he said that the penalty for speeding is up to 30, 500,00 kn, it is not 500,00 she is 1,000,00, she is 500,00 kn for one who can pay immediately or within 3 days, and for those, and those in Croatia are far more than those who can immediately pay, she is 1,000 kn or for overruning more than 30, 000,00 kn. I think it's a big enough punishment and it's not easy for anyone today to get out of your pocket 1,000,00 kn and pay a fine that applies to overruns, so, 10, 15. Unfortunately, this law does not deal with the condition of road infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, which is catastrophic, of the highways that have a series of tracks that are filled with all kinds of holes and irregularities, which have a significant impact on traffic safety. This law does not deal with wrong solutions in the construction of transport infrastructure that often lead to major traffic violations. Remember last summer down at Vodice, a solution that brought a major car accident, not just one, but more. I believe that roads are one of the very, very important problems for which people are killed or caused by a large number of traffic accidents. Some time ago, I asked a representative question to the minister of traffic related to the Virovitica-Kutina road, the state road is not exactly in excellent condition, but it travels so many trucks of Romanian and Hungarian license plates that it is simply such a big threat for citizens in the places they pass through and for the safety of all those who traffic those roads. Unfortunately, the answer was as for children from kindergarten, only to answer something without making any suggestion, no solutions for resolving that traffic, or by any chance trying to collect traffic on Croatian roads with these foreign tables. We know that in Hungary trucks pay and traffic not only on highways, but on all other roads, so why this case in the Republic of Hungary that no one wants to pay attention to in the ministry and no one wants to get rid of it, and that you ask people on the move from Kutina to Virovitica what they think about it, I think you'd get your hair on your head. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia there is a spider web law, I have said it many times already, that spider web is caught by tiny flies, and the bumblebees are flying through it, and so is the Road Traffic Act. Well, here's the recent case of Minister Grill who 3 years ago. She didn't extend her driver's license, and after that, I wonder how much she paid for it because I know, if I get stopped by police control, I don't have a driver's license, because I have more tractors and motorcycles to drive around with, I have to pay 500,00 kn because I don't have a driver's license, and I have the right driver's license. Why is that happening? Well, it happens because there are people in this country who think they're above everyone else and that the law can't do anything to them, it's mostly those who have this HDZ card, and it's been talked about more recently, but it's mostly the most serious offenses that the golden mole that comes into possession of angry cars with a lot of horses, and it's often seen in television contributions when it comes to traffic violations, and unfortunately they're not the ones who are under the sanctions of the Law on road traffic, they're very often not, and you all know very well, and you who do the law that it is. Well, as colleagues have said, when everyone will pay that minimum penalty and knows they won't be able to escape, then we will have far more respect for the traffic laws and these other laws because we see how strong corruption is for us not to respect other laws. Only then will the laws have purpose. The purpose of this is only to take this Croatian poor woman as much money as possible. I'm asking you who will be able to pay those fines. We have 300,000 blocked citizens today, what will happen to those who won't be able to pay their fines, what will you take their houses, their vehicles, permanently take them away? I think this is a completely wrong path in this way to train the strictness of Croatian law and Croatian regimes and relations with this Croatian man and we have led the country to the point that it is at the bottom of the EU by all criteria. It's about the age of a fleet, so how can we expect people to buy new vehicles when we have a bunch of people digging through containers today, how do they expect them to have new vehicles? Well, it's not so much a problem at the age of our fleet, so he's not that old. So look at the other European cities, and there are older cars, too, but these people have decent receipts and can service their vehicles even though they are older. Well, it's not a 10-year-old car if it's properly maintained. But unfortunately, some of our people can't change the tires regularly, let alone do other maintenance. We are all aware that today's fleet has come to this limit that no one can fix themselves but mostly has to drive in service because everything has to be connected to the computer, everything has to reset, cancel, people can't pay for it. You should take care of that. It is necessary to create a decent life and decent income in this country and then we will influence the reduction of deaths on Croatian roads. Today when you're driving down a road that has a 50 limit since there are big comfortable cars you don't even notice when you're at 80. We have so many irregularities and diversity in marking speeds on Croatian roads. When you start from Kutina from Banova Jaruga to Novska and to Obrovec you have a county road 31 24 that has a 60km limit per hour. You cross the Brod-Posavina County road is the same, the limit is 70km per hour. Sometimes you should also take care of the condition of the roads, so if the road is quality you should allow a little more speed because life has accelerated very quickly today, the vehicles have become sophisticated, modern with a series of safety equipment and we have left some limits as if we are still driving in the drawer today. A colleague here mentioned motorcyclists and the introduction of a helmet penalty. The penalty for wearing a helmet is 500 kuna and has not increased. I'm a motorcyclist myself. Well, it doesn't occur to me to sit on a motorcycle so I don't wear a helmet. I'm not wearing a helmet because of the police and the Road Safety Act. I'm wearing a helmet for my head. And anyone who sat on a motorcycle and tried to drive 100 kilometers an hour without a helmet when a bumblebee hit him in the head I think the second day immediately he put his helmet back on his head that he would never think of it again. So this is an example that it doesn't have to be a dragon penalty for people to use something that protects them. It takes more education, and it needs to be a more humane relationship with these people, and I think a lot of things will change without dragon punishment. Unfortunately, road mortality is also affected by the inadequate emergency aid Croatia has. Today, we do not have a helicopter service that can work very quickly and land on the highway itself or on a roadway. There are suggestions, there are people interested, there are not so many resources that the Republic of Croatia could not provide, but obviously there is no goodwill or whether 1, 2 or 5 people will die more from the consequences of a car accident or not. Well, I think at least one third of the life could have been saved if there was such a helicopter ambulance in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, our officers or police officers are underpaid, their salaries are too low, work too long, and unfortunately get assignments from their commanders, i.e. norms that they must bring a certain number of penalties. It is a confirmation that these laws and these penalties serve only to fill the state budget. Why make these people overpriced, jump out of the bushes, literally out of the bushes, hide behind the poles on the highway? Which is why people make you do it and the result is disastrous again. We still have a large number of deaths on Croatian roads. I therefore appeal to you to consult more with science, to make more effort to invest in Croatian roads, to know what conditions of the County Roads Administration and that they do not have enough money to invest in rehabilitations, reconstructions of county roads and most of them are driving. And you would do well to state that in the law, in the bill of law when you talk about a large number of deaths on Croatian roads. Secure people with good income, they will certainly have a far better fleet and far more maintenance than they have today because I don't know if there is anyone in Croatia who doesn't want a nice and good car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139797	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. And the last debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives is a debate from colleague Bernarda Topolko on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139798	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Transport Safety Act. And how much I managed to get out of this law for the reason that the current law does not fulfil its purpose or between the lines that penalties are too small for those who break the law. We at the HNS Club do not think that the current penalties are too low except for the penalty use of a cell phone that has now remained 300 kuna as it has been and we believe that it should be much greater especially for those who use a cell phone and write messages on the road. It is also predicted that vehicles that deliberately pass through red light at a traffic light increase in fines. However, the basic question is who will notice who went through the red light. The main problem is that there are not enough police officers on the roads. We can lift the penalty for going through the red light, but if there's no police officer or camera at that crossroads, there's no way you're gonna catch the ones that went through. And how much to see especially in Zagreb in the morning at 8 am I think you count at least 15 of them who entered the intersection under the red. So the problem is getting in from the other tape because they're jammed. Also what we think, and I already said that I think the sentences are pretty big. We believe that more police officers on the roads, on the streets, especially in the places where I come from, or from the area of Međimurje County would have more psychological effect on drivers that already all of us, when we see that police cars or cops are automatically running a gas slipper, we throw away a cell phone and already because they are there and some roles do not repress but warn us that they are there and we have to act according to regulations. Our transport culture is quite low, the mass of our people as soon as they cross the border as far as Slovenia is concerned knows that the penalties are quite high, they know that they have a problem as soon as they see Croatian tables to take special care of them and automatically comply with the rules. What I would also like to mention is that we should take more care of our roads. Namely the mass of our roads is reconstructed, renovated, expanded, has cycling lanes, walking paths and the limit is like 30, 40 years ago. So 50 km/h through the inhabited areas, you have 40. I talked about it on the board, a road reconstructed a year and a half ago. Today you can see that the road sign is 30, no work, no workers, but there is a pool of water when it rains which is not recovered, which is not even fixed within the warranty period and it exists as such and then you have a sign of 40, down 30, works on the road and no one else. Therefore, we should pass through these roads, see which signs are set and see what that road allows, or at what speed it can safely pass. Also what I would like to mention on behalf of the club, which is about alcohol, of course we are against, that it should be like for professionals 0,0, 0,5 for everyone else, although there was a comment from my colleagues that in some of our areas you have 0.5 in the air, and then you should allow 1,00. But let's go to 0.5 and be happy. However, I am interested in one thing that is also mentioned in this law and these are instructors who, if they were caught driving under the influence of alcohol, we know of 0.0 that I couldn't read there, they are fined, they can also be punished by prison punishment, but I couldn't read whether or not they are credited with negative points, whether they lose their license after a number of negative points. I didn't read that. I also noticed that when it is stated what instructors must have done or what they must do, they must not be punished for domestic violence anywhere. We all know that today has finally started to say that there is domestic violence in all layers of society, and I think that should be complemented. Then, as regards winter conditions on the roads, we have the prescribed use of winter equipment from 15.11. to 15.4. However, given the climate change, we have witnessed that first, 15.4. and 15.3. respectively, so it was before regulated, little where you will find winter conditions, there are no snow, no ice on the roads, and then there are problems with those winter tires, people since on warm asphalt tires are more spent, so they change the tires and normally stop them cop regardless of what the winter conditions are, but they are regulated by the law to until then, pay the fines, I think it should change in that law. Then as far as taking a vehicle is concerned, we are not exactly for such repressive measures, we think that the penalties are quite large and that there are some other penalties, or are predicted to be resuming a driving test after a number of negative points, and we are not sure about this. It is also cited for laying driver's licenses in secondary schools that provide training for motor vehicle drivers. Until not so long ago, it was mandatory and all those in the direction of traffic technicians and we believe that this should be brought back into that part of schooling. Here, that's briefly what we discussed at the club, and we'll see how this bill will be set up, so we'll agree on how we'll set up and when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139799	Thank you. We're done arguing on behalf of the representatives' clubs. We're going to have an individual debate, after the first individual debate, and we're going to have a position, but now we're going to go, as I said, with an individual debate. The first is a colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I welcome every attempt to solve problems in Croatian society such as this, which is the number of traffic accidents and the number of fatalities in traffic that is large, you yourself, Mr Katic, in your opening presentation, presented these figures and they are amazing. However, I believe that these amendments to this law are only an attempt and that on that attempt it will remain that way because I think this problem should still be systematically approached and that some things should be changed in the Republic of Croatia which are definitely the cause of all of this data that you have provided, and these are not only fines. So, the amount of fines will not solve this problem, unfortunately, because these penalties that exist in this law are not too small, and we still have penalties that are greater than the receipts of many people, so no one can tell me that if a man commits some kind of offence and gets a penalty that is greater than his monthly income, that is little and that there are traffic violations, it just isn't. I'm in favour of the strict punishment of relapsers and those who often repeat violations, but still, why do I think that this problem should have been approached systematically? Because it shows the practice that those who often commit violations, that no penalties, or withdrawal of driving licences, will prevent them from doing so. We often read in the media about the car accidents of the perpetrators who made a traffic ticket without a driver's license, in an alcoholised state, then we say, there are 20 violations committed, so, already only the sentences so far have not affected them, I think that such people will be doing it was a fine of 5.00 kn or 50,000.00 kn, which I think should have been approached. So this is one process, or problem that concerns not only the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, most of all because the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice is carrying out it, but it certainly concerns both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, first and foremost, which should be dealt with by those worst perpetrators. We have a series of examples, and here we are today in the media after 10 years. They run some trials for some people, we remember that race on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway where one female person died and here's the other day it's written, this process hasn't been completed since 10.g. and there are a number of such cases in Croatian society, it is not the fault of the MUP who has carried out his and initiated certain reports, but it is the wrong of the judiciary which does not implement the laws of this country and which is slow and where those who have money and good lawyers and good connections find holes in the laws and push those processes into obsolescence and go unpunished. So, it was supposed to approach, first of all, the judiciary, I'm going to turn to the age of the rolling stock, I think new technologies, new braking systems that are present on new vehicles certainly increase traffic safety. The European Parliament adopted a provision the other day that it will be in 3rd year. Mandatory equipment in new vehicles will be speed limitation systems where the vehicle itself, these have some vehicles today as additional equipment, but this will become a 3g obligation. for all new vehicles, in five years. and for all vehicles moving in the transport of EU countries, which is where the vehicle will only recognize road signs and where it will then just not allow the driver to exceed speed. And what are we doing? We tax on the value component of a new vehicle, we grow the age of a rolling stock. So 14 years is the average age of the rolling stock in Croatia, 400 thousand vehicles fall on the brake system annually, means the safety system of brakes and we become a dump for EU vehicles due to the taxation system. So, on several occasions in this House, I've talked about it and discussed it with the Minister of Finance, so I've advocated cutting costs to newer vehicles, not only to new vehicles, but also to vehicles 5, 6, 7 years. No, what I said in the replica, I mean, here's a neighbouring Serbia that's not in the EU now imposing a ban on imports of vehicles older than 10 years old. I think that we as an EU country should put some kind of ban on importing vehicles over 7 years old because we are becoming EU garbage. So for environmental reasons, the diesels that Germany and other countries solve for the sake of cheap pressures they come and end up in Croatia and there is a fall in road safety in our country. And on that point, we need to do something urgent. Older vehicles in Croatia will still be able to be purchased. So there is a rolling stock that is old in Croatia but why should we import garbage from Europe and be, that is, on Croatian roads and that threatens those who drive it and those who are moving in traffic, I am strongly against it and I think that it should even stimulate the purchase of new vehicles, not only for new vehicles, but up to 5, 6 years I think it's vehicles that can be afforded by Croatian citizens. Another thing, you should continue to work on prevention and education, especially in education. I'm a motorcycle driver myself, and I have to when I'm riding a motorcycle open what four eyes say, because other people are jeopardizing motorcycles on the roads because they don't even perceive that there's someone on two wheels on the road. So exactly when you're driving a motorcycle, you see how a person in a car who's a motorcycle driver behaves and you see someone who has nothing to do with a motorcycle. When you run into a person who is constantly on two wheels, he also turns aside, slows down, watch out, so there you need to do education and draw attention to traffic participants that there are others and pedestrians and cyclists etc.. As far as punishment is concerned, one more thing I'm going to say, so the great punishments that are bigger than citizens' incomes, we talked here the other day about the Police Act, and that's why I think we should systematically approach this. We will according to this proposal if he passes even though I don't think he's going to get through the kind of punishments that are higher than the salaries of police officers who express them. So you're going to have a punishment that's two or three times as big as a salary gets a cop who has to give that sentence. As much space as we open up to these people and corruption as possible, I'm not saying they're all corrupt, but the cops are working on impossible conditions for us today and you've opened up space in the Police Act, you've reduced the criteria for entering the police service. So you lower the level of education, you lower the quality of the staff that will be coming to the police, and now you're introducing penalties that these people who are less quality than those who work in the police today are going to give to the officers. And now I'm asking you if a cop who works for 5, 6 thousand kunas has to give someone a fine of 30 thousand kunas and someone on the road tells you 1,000, 2000 kunas, so they just want me to say I won't and it works for 4,5,000 kunas in impossible conditions? Therefore, it is necessary to take systematic care of everything, to improve the position of working officers, their conditions, their wages, and the way they operate in the ministry. The other thing, against the ban on driving, today you have a telegram of entrepreneurs from Velika Gorica, whose police seized a truck in 2008 because they suspected it was carrying on an illegal exploitation of mine wealth. A man won a court dispute in 2013, but you know what happened? Meanwhile, the truck went missing from the police warehouse, no one knows where the truck is. The man sued the state for lost profit, the truck when it was seized was worth 170 thousand kuna per conviction the other day, a court in Zapresic, the state today has to pay him a million and a half kuna for the lost truck, for the lost profit in that period. So is the police ready if this provision passes that there are dumps for vehicles that will eventually be confiscated, who will guard, who will be responsible for any damage to those vehicles? So think about what you're going into because I'm not sure the police system is ready for one such radical measure. The other thing is, I'm closing this part of it because I can see that my time is at the end of it even though there's a lot to talk about, but I have one question. So every year, police are calling for tenders to improve road safety, sharing certain means of traffic control for cities and municipalities, for the past 3 years it is quite difficult, I have been complaining to the mayors and the mayors very hard to get these funds, therefore, there are no clear criteria for them to be allocated. I wonder if you can tell if the M.O.P. finally announces who has received the funds at which level and for what they are intended. Here's the part, and I'd like to conclude with this for now because I'm out of time, but I can see that I have a piece of the replica, so I'm hoping to be able to say a few more things about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139801	Thank you. We've got five replicas on your display. He's my first colleague, Matteljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you spoke about how many people died in traffic in Croatia. I believe that colleagues and colleagues know that so far it has been lost by 2018 in Croatia. Fifteen thousand five hundred and twenty-three people in traffic, that's more than they were killed in the Homeland War. If that fact doesn't talk enough about how big a problem it is, then I don't know what you should talk more about. So I didn't... I am not against and repressive as a tool against such a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, a person who drives 50 kilometers more than is allowed. It's the same violation of it as having an automatic rifle and shooting at it at random. So, not that he needs to confiscate his vehicle, but he should confiscate that person to a Colloquial term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139803	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139804	Well, I agree, these are the worst violations, fellow Mateo, but we have examples in Croatia where the efficiency of police and the effectiveness of work in certain police stations is measured in the number of penalties charged. For me, the number of fines charged can't be the measure of success of a particular police station because then everything happens to you. So, they pump statistics, and that's only in the function of charging the state budget because 90% of the fines that these people collect are not endangering but are running for people if someone stopped at a pharmacy in some place of 5 thousand residents on four blinkers for 5 minutes and there punishes him. We have a lot of examples like that in Croatia, and that's why I don't think repression is a good way to go, so if someone's driving double against restrictions, I'm here for the worst punishment, just like you said. But not all punishments are equal, and in statistics, everything counts equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139805	Thank you. Comrade Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139806	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, I agree with you that Croatia actually needs one systematic solution and that this law itself will not lead to what the Proposer wants, which is actually a reduction in the fatalities of traffic accidents because you yourself said that more laws and more solutions are necessary and that it is really in a systematic way. What I'm saying is that, let's say, it's very important to lead in transport infrastructure. As you have an example of the city I come from, Vodice, in which precisely this law and dragon punishment will not lead to a minor accident, if you have two traffic solutions that are extremely bad, such as a rotor in Vodice or a guideway that has taken away more human lives in a short time. That's exactly why [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a bad traffic solution. [[Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139807	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139808	Well, that's right, pal, so we have good highways, maybe one of the better roads in Europe, but we have local roads that are bad and here, and I see that the Department of Transport is now fixing some black spots and that's why it needs to be systematic. So everyone needs to work on it. It's not just the police. But when we talk about speed, they don't endanger people's lives and traffic safety just those who drive fast. They also threaten those who drive slow, too slow. So we and the roads that haven't adapted to modern life, let's say so. You have roads on which the restriction today is the same as 50 years ago, when the roads prevailed I don't know, Stojadini and cars with those pangs di there were no disc brakes, and the restriction remained the same and then you have people who drive there slowly, and they're being attacked, they're getting nervous and there's traffic accidents. So, systematically all of this needs to be accessed and all segments need to be analysed, not just The number of people killed and the number of punishments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139809	Thank you, fellow Djujic. Thank you. Comrade Škorić, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139810	Thank you very much. Here, a colleague, Djujic, mentioned systems solutions and needs to be systematically solved. What is this system and how is it solved? I believe that this law in many segments brings us according to some systems, completes, implements the work of different state bodies and facilitates police officers and questions about the withdrawal of vehicles and the order of the judiciary that within 15 days must make a request, a verdict, and these other issues related to these frequent relapses in offences where they become fully visible, etc., I believe that contributing to the system is a contribution. And the question of the number of new vehicles to rebuild the rolling stock would be interesting to see how old the vehicle is caused by traffic accidents. Of course we'd all like newer vehicles, and we know that's impossible. And also, when we talk about roads, then we can't say that our roads are bad because, according to some studies, we have a better country on roads, and yet that doesn't reduce the number of violations. So we have to change our consciousness and habits of people and that's our common task. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139811	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139812	Thank you very much. My colleague Škorić, that's what I said, systematically. But systematically means I listed in the debate and in education and education that will lead to a change of consciousness, the Ministry of Transport that will, our roads are good. But there are a lot of these black spots in Croatia where traffic accidents often happen. I don't think that only the billing of fines will get results because those who often do fines will continue to do them, so whoever gets a driver's license for alcoholation and he's still drinking, so he's gonna drink and drive a car in an alcoholic state, he's got a fine of 500 kuna, 1000 or 5000 kn, but that's the judiciary that needs to work on, and that's what I said, so it's not all about the police. Unfortunately, I don't think this build-up of certain amounts of penalties is going to get results, and I agree with this that we should have gotten more complete data, to see how much traffic is caused. Because of the age of the vehicle, how much did they do? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] People who often commit crimes [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Djujic.]] And how much did it get when someone first made one? [[Intruder: Comrade Djujic, thank you.]] A misdemeanor. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139813	Thank you. Thank you. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139814	I thank the vice president of HS. Well, here it is, colleague Djujic. On the replica, I was actually encouraged by this last part of your exposure because I would also like to know, what are the criteria under which the funds from the road safety improvement programme are allocated, which is therefore one of the measures from that national road safety programme 2011/20. Unfortunately, we don't have any points. I see that certain local units are as if they've been subscribed, that there are the biggest problems with road safety in them, and no one else can get it. Look at the wonders. Right in those local units, the leaders are HDZ. I'm sorry that's the case, the competition that's calling any ministry should be public in the first row, even that's questionable, and they should be transparent and there should be a clear system of points, and you don't have it here. So I expect at least that to change in 2020 and that we have clear criteria by which We'll distribute those funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thank you, colleague.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139815	Thank you, Mr. Vesligai. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139816	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vesligaj, I have mentioned this precisely because, in the opening explanation of this law and in the presentation, it is also mentioned in public while preparing for the debate on this law, it is often mentioned that so far some prevention measures have not given the desired results and that now it is going to this step, a step of punishment. So, this is one program that belongs to the prevention system, so the improvement of roads, their editing, and now if it's being allocated non-transparently and if you don't know where they're going and if you don't give us God, they're going according to the political key, and then it's no wonder that prevention doesn't give us results. Because if she went where they were to go by some clear criteria where it's a priority to get those funds out, then it's a preventive action, and then we can say if it's a result or not. If it goes to who's a party party friend then of course there's no result These preventive [[Intruder: Thank you.]] activities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139817	And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139818	I agree with you fellow, not until the police have a total separation in Croatia between law and enforcement. And that's a big problem, the police can't do everything, the small wages I don't know how you'd estimate about, the police as an organization, the training, the equipment and this and the other, these by which an organization's preparedness is estimated, as you'd estimate. But in Canada it's simple, you drive drunk on the spot taking away a car, smoking goodbye, 2-3 violations 10 years you won't see it, this one, this license. It's quite simple. But at the same time, I would say the essence of the politics of human policy, if the military had changed and taken over NATO doctrine had rejected.../incomprehensible/... the pact of what kind of doctrine in the military, if the first minister of the military was in the war, the war was over, was the head of Ozne from Karlovac, how, what, what kind of doctrine is now, who is leading the Croatian police now, every honour to the police in the war. Staff policy is important, this is no longer a militia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139819	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139820	I'm glad my colleague, Glasovic, that you agree with me at least in something, so I think police officers work in poor conditions, have low wages for work, have low equipment. That's what I was saying the other day when we were discussing the Police Act, I think we should work here systematically, help, not help, but allow these people to do a job that is their job under normal conditions and get paid for it. They can't be paid because then there's room for some corrupt stuff. And around this semblance, I agree that it may be a measure of good for someone who commits the most serious offense, gets drunk, drives twice the limit, but I'm not sure the M.O.P. is ready today to implement it if it goes through the law. So, I listed this example of entrepreneurs from Velika Gorica, I don't know if the police have dumps that are ready, where they'll keep those vehicles, where they'll keep records of the condition of the vehicle. Who's going to answer for that? For, in a country where court proceedings last for a decade.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139821	Thank you, thank you, buddy. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139823	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, here we are in everything and in every law, and we are listening to this law... In contrast to and against, and this depends most on the perspective from which this law is seen or observed, but I do not believe that anyone is against being obscenity and boasting drivers who repeatedly repeat the most severe crimes actually spare the fines, I think that no one is in this assembly for that, so that in that sense I would observe this law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I am concerned by the fact that the irresponsible and you, I must call them boastful and reasonable drivers have not been too often answered, because if we are looking at this criminal act in criminal law, and it is called an obscenity drive, only 28 perpetrators have been punished, and that is one of the most difficult acts in terms of endangering others in traffic and that is what people say, living on the road, and that someone can act like that on the road, and that usually has to have a stronger car, a better car, a more expensive car, and that person who has average or modest incomes, it's not going to behave like that on the road, first because there are no technical conditions, second because it's more modest to receive, and usually such people are not more normal, and that I don't get the wrong of what I't say, I'm not some Robin Hood, so I'm afraid that those who are rich in terms are more expensive than the truths and the truths, but the truths that people who are usually the most expensive and the truths that the truths of the most. And it often happens that such drivers will not only commit one offence, these drivers will, for example, commit another offence, which is that they won't even stop a police officer when they're stopped and you don't believe them, there were more than 1500 cases a year where simply such a driver, as the people say, just flashes away and doesn't stop, I think that's how it ends. And to me, especially as a person who is a driver herself, but above all, the mother of children, means, it bothers me, when the signs are not respected, it bothers me when there is no respect for traffic, but above all, no other culture, and it bothers me, as it is said so, the bloated cars that are really in the way of a stronger racer of our roads, they don't respect roads, or traffickers, and they don't respect other drivers in traffic, and then they often endanger others, unfortunately, and they often hurt others even though they are guilty, and these are facts. And this topic of road safety and traffic can always be talked about from two perspectives and so far we have always listened to the perspective factually in terms of professionally, let's say, and bureaucratic facts through figures, through statistics and it's very important and it's justified and it's important and it's based on every law. However, this subject can also be spoken of as human as any subject. I'm going to allow myself this exclusiveness to speak humanly, because this is, above all, an emotional subject. If someone has lost their loved one in traffic because of someone's hanged driving or driving, then the person on this subject will hardly speak in fact and will hardly look at it exclusively through numbers, although they have been killed in each one, even in this report describe through numbers, but someone's wife, mother, brother, sister, this is not a figure for that person. And we've heard from previous discussions now that they're going exclusively for repression, but I'm saying again, depending on whose perspective they're looking at. If we look out of the shoes of those who have lost their loved ones because of someone's hanged and boasted driving, you will be told that no punishment or sanctions is likely too great for them and that an obscenity driver, to ask them, would ever come into a position to hurt anyone again, and God forbid he dies. So that's one perspective. And if we look from another perspective, which is completely the opposite, that's the perspective of the person who's in a position to pay the fine if she's broken the law. I also, when I drive, don't like to pay the fine of course, but if I've broken the law, of course I'll pay that fine, but that's why I'm trying not to break that law. Are those fines high? So if we look from some socio-economic opportunities in Croatia and a major disproportionate between, still between regions, then it depends again on perspective. Of course, those who have a salary of 50 thousand kuna or some kind of football player or private entrepreneurs, they don't have a problem with giving out 5 thousand kunas, from 5 to 15, but for an average man, that's a large amount and that's a fact. Is it more complicated, and the answer is that, if those who are better incomes, when they break the law, are brought before a criminal court, and then the judge has that authority and that autonomy, yeah, your monthly incomes are so great, I'm giving you the penalty of 15 thousand kunas, and your monthly incomes are so great, I'm giving you a lower sentence for the same crime. That's what some of you will say again, it's very disputable, and some of you will say so it's okay. So it's always pro et contra, depending on whose perspective. So, what matters to me here, the usual drivers, and that shows all the facts by category of the Penal Code and this law, are not drivers with average income. Whether repressive measures will lead to a reduction of criminal and criminal acts, including the number of deaths, is the question to which we objectively say, the answer will already be given in a year, and I am sure that everyone would like that answer to be positive and there is again a question of perspective and as it is said in our people, one says must increase the penalty because if our people are not punished, then they will not follow the rules, and the other says why our people would be punished, so we know how to stick to the rules and without being punished. So there are always two different perspectives, and as it is said, no one has been born yet to please everyone. But I'm always in favour of those who are arrogant, who serve by force stronger, who are obstinate, so if you want to be rude in driving, who threaten those who respect regulations, I'm always in favour of having them suffer the most severe consequences or be sanctioned the way they should be, and that's these 8 categories that are described in this law, that I don't repeat them because we've already heard about them and what I particularly support, that's an increase from 500 kn to 1000 kn for improperly bound, i.e. driving children. This means that children are balled like balls in the back seats and even in light car accidents, children have severe traffic consequences or serious injuries. So whether a parent needs the law to prescribe it or not is responsible enough to bind his children. Obviously, not only is it necessary, but the punishment still needs to be increased. It is also very discussionable that parents will not bind their child, but good, or use a safety belt. And what I also support, it's from 500 kn to 1500 kn to use the phone in the hand when driving because there is no, I'm sure the person who didn't find someone or created a column, so we all lined up behind it or did something wrong or did something that wasn't common because his cell phone was in his hand when he was driving. Does this person deserve punishment, and did this person endanger the rest of us who didn't use our cell phone? It is. So I don't see why this person wouldn't get sanctioned in that way, and as far as the other countries are concerned, I and I have this company here. It is all about the same, some countries have from Slovenia, Germany, Switzerland, a 50, 100-euro difference in different cases, from driving without a safety belt, etc., and that is, left for all of us here to assess how much punishment for certain cases can actually be prescribed and what should certainly be stressed that it is important to introduce order, but it is also important to introduce order in the police. That it doesn't happen to apply to some of the rules and it doesn't apply to some of them. And now I apologize to all the honest and conscientious police officers, but there's no situation for some to wipe something out and for others not to wipe it out. If it's going to be a line, then we all have to be equal, I think we're all for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139824	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a colleague of Topolko's. After her, a colleague of Sauch's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139825	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues died in 2017 56 pedestrians. The penalty in Article 18 of the 300 kuna for all pedestrians who do not have reflective vests at night and day in conditions of reduced visibility is now foreseen. Since we have a case of one of our captains who, five years ago, saw at one point how many pedestrians he's been on the road at night, of course none of us likes pedestrians, of us drivers don't like pedestrians in black clothes because we all know how poorly they're seen, we're not against reflective vests, but I'm starting with a story about one of our captains. He's five years ago. Oh, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Mostly bought...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139826	Just please pick up, if you want a replica of this one you have a yellow shelf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139827	I raised my hand like this, I didn't raise my bat, I raised my hand. Thank you very much. I haven't heard the question, so I can't give you a concrete answer, but what I just said before, so I think this law has an emphasis on repressive methods, but it doesn't leave out preventive methods. Although in this law there is more emphasis on the repressive methods that, as I have carried out in these 8 cases, from driving in a restricted direction on the highway to refusing when a police officer offers an alcoholic or a drug test until I don't know how to drive without a driver's license, I find it justified to use repressive methods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139828	Comrade Sauch, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleague, you've been very good at detecting a problem for me, and you've said it's endlessly annoying you, the target is also annoying me, it's annoying me that on the roads, and for a long time there's been a law of greater power. I get the feeling that the better the car and the more expensive those people think they have some different rights. that they are not subject to rules of conduct or of the law, and that is because they are not really subject to those rules. Whether they're somehow getting out of punishment or this is the reason maybe because they have more money because it would somehow suit the fact that they drive such expensive cars. I don't think this idea of yours would be bad, if it were to allow the court to assess by someone's property status to determine a higher penalty, if not by salary, because regularly such people have minimal incomes, they're meant to be defined as privates, but then at least by the value of that car concerned He needs to end those savages somewhere. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139830	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139831	Thank you very much, so, of course, that a respected colleague is not in the same position as someone who hasn't seen well from the sun whether it's red on a traffic light or not, so I've been through, so it's really not an obnoxious and arrogant ride, but bad conditions where you can't tell if it's yellow or red right now or someone who deliberately adds a voice, gas pardon and passes through the red and endangering both pedestrians and vehicles around you and all the people who are in the vehicles around him. It's also not the same person who committed the first crime and the person who deliberately committed the same crime 5, 6, 8 times or 3 times. Well, then this law is good for the first time in six months or two, for three times 12 months, for three times even more drastic. So now it's just a matter of the judge, whether the judge will stick to a minimum sentence or give the maximum sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139832	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139833	Thank you, Madam Vice President, you mentioned in your statement that this law should be seen normally and on the human side, which I think is definitely because it affects both society and most of us drivers. And you mentioned just about these we can and say the Draconian penalties that will be effective in this law and the way it should be charged, or maybe until the second reading, to think about introducing a maybe different model, which is I think Scandinavian countries have exactly per day's income punishment in traffic, which is not foreign and we have a lot of fines in our courts when prescribed, is prescribed by daily income, so that normally we should introduce some minimum that cannot be avoided but normally that these large penalties will not have the same effect on the person with large incomes and someone who may be unemployed or has minimal incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139834	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139835	Thank you very much, it is purely my subjective idea that is not part of this law regarding income censorship, although there are cases in Europe where it is implemented. I think that might even be complicated given the current situation in our let's say this in the public administration that, although it may not be such a bad idea and it might be complicated, but what's important is once again to point out that the obsessing drivers per category are so defined in the Penal Code and here, these drivers don't have average admissions, they're drivers who repeatedly repeat the most serious crimes, which they don't deliberately stop, which endanger others in traffic, who refuse to submit alcohol or drug tests, which exceed speed, which drive in the opposite direction and who think they're allowed to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139836	Here you go, colleague Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139837	Thank you very much, fellow Members, I will refer to that part of your exposure in which you said that this law, of course, and I will agree with you, that this law between the rest and the repressive measures is going to reduce the victims and the dead in traffic, and, of course, I will agree with you and the fact that order needs to be introduced, but in a way that there must be the same rules and the same criteria for all of us and the law, we all need to be the same. And as for fines for these different categories of violations proposed, how effective these measures will be, of course, show time, because as far as hanging, hanging driving and all of these moments of hanging and boasting traffic are concerned, of course, with both property status and people who have said so far, import expensive and angry cars, and in that sense it has always been. And there will always be those [[Intruder: Thank you]] who will take their punishments [[Intruder: Thank you]] I can avoid it. [[/Intruder: Here's the answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139838	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139839	Well, I agree with you, and you've agreed with me, and now, for the first time in the debate, it's actually a clearly mentioned category of benevolent, arrogant drivers, and I'm glad that the debate is going in that direction right now because it's actually the key of this law, and I have to keep saying that this law applies primarily to those drivers who have repeatedly broken the most difficult and are doing the most difficult cases of traffic violations, and that is these 8 categories that are numbered in this law, and I think that these drivers, these drivers, these are reciprocated drivers, who thought that they could find ways to avoid the law so far, and I think that first of all of us, I'll have the exclusiveity to tell the rest of us because I believe that we are not the drivers, and the drivers, this law should be applied to a lesser extent. If there's any more room between the two readings to settle, there sure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139840	Thank you. Comrade Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139841	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, agree with you that they are very necessary, when they are needed, then we really need punishment especially when it comes to child protection because if parents or someone who transports children are not aware of the need to bind a child, then really these penalties should be greater. But I'm asking here, there's one question that the child's attorney asked, and it's about transporting children in vehicles that don't have seat belts, what about that? This law doesn't solve it, I don't know if there are any of those vehicles, obviously there are those vehicles, because that kind of vehicle, but it's really inadmissible. On the other hand, and the responsibility of parents or someone else who transports children, when it exposes them to tobacco smoke for, and smoking does not harm simultaneously and reduces visibility and possibly influences, there are some studies that talk about it, but at the same time it really does harm children's health. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139843	Thank you very much, so if the parent is irresponsible then no law will make him responsible and we're all aware of it, but here's the law will help, if it's no different, so that parent will know that he'll pay 1,000,00 kn and if it's publicly kommunised then he'll tie that kid up if not for another reason. I've read this statement by the D.A. and I don't know who these vehicles are without a seat belt, I'm not educated enough, but what's important and I pointed out that even when the easier cases of accidents to say so, children are more seriously injured in 2018. 109 children were badly injured and 750 were killed in passenger capacity by a child who was, of course, incorrectly bound or not bound, 37 sustained severe physical injuries, 489 minor injuries, and there is no need for anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139844	Thank you. Next individual debate of counterparts Tomislav Lipovsjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139845	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I must admit that when I first quickly passed this law, I was not exactly clear whether it would change anything for the better or not, especially under the impression of individual and media inscriptions about increasing the penalty for hitting the driver's pocket, about dragon penalties, about the standard of citizens, etc. However, if we take a closer look at the criminal sanctions in this law, or the increase in those sanctions, we see that they are, in fact, aimed at those who often and who are in fact significant violation of traffic regulations, etc. It's just that these are the groups that are actually the most serious offenses, repeat them, and actually represent the greatest danger in traffic itself. This legislative proposal also provides for a temporary confiscation measure, and I am interested in whether a measure of permanent withdrawal of a vehicle for those relapsers, which will not only be fined twice, but which, through a certain number of years, will not be sufficient for the school, sufficient instruction, or sufficient measures to say so, to move them off the roads, and also whether we have any projections or statistics to predict how much such temporarily withdrawn vehicles would be on an annual basis based on the previous years. More or less already in this debate today, a lot has been said, so I don't want to repeat myself too much, but I would look back here on the article. In 32nd and 229th, in the part that actually relates to the punishment of those drivers who, or who do not wish to stop at the request of the police officer, at the request of the police officer or those who do not want to give the information later on about who was driving the vehicle and then, in practice, we know that these relapses are driving either under the influence of alcohol or without adequate traffic or driving permits or under ban with withdrawn driving licences, and then calculate and count that if they do not stop at the sign of a police officer, they will be stopped and paid and they will also be subjected to alcohol testing, etc., so I am thinking that it might be a good thing to increase those penalties, I see that art. The 229th already changed, that these penalties were increased, but in this part where drivers actually refuse to stop, and I believe that they are further threatening traffic and traffic users, so that these penalties may be greater precisely because there would be no calculation of whether they are worth stopping at all when police stop them or not. Also, correct me if I'm wrong, it might be considered to include a provision so that the cargo vehicles of foreign nationals or foreign registration plates can be temporarily maintained so that the fine can be charged to legal and responsible persons coming from other countries. In fact, I think only road traffic inspectors currently have that option, and the police are not and now the penalty can only be charged to a foreign driver, but not to companies, and that is why we are actually putting ourselves in an unfavourable position of a domestic company that actually pays such penalties, and not just their drivers. From all this data that we have available and we can read that last year, as many as 316 people have lost their lives on our roads, here, unfortunately, in my Carlovac County, even 14, but if the provisions of this bill will save at least 1 life, if we will at least one of these relapsers each who is dangerous for themselves and for other road participants, then I believe that already with this law, we have done a good thing with this bill and made a step forward. Of course, such legal changes should not remain lonely, I think they should be followed, and we heard that in today's debates and certainly the resolution of black points on our roads, they are identified, they are known but they also carry a good part of our black statistics and, of course, preventions that should not move from car school, should not move from high school either, should move from kindergarten itself. I'm going to say it like that, a cell phone monster that's getting bigger and bigger every day. We see that phones actually become a daily part of our lives, unfortunately and our children's lives, and since kindergartens, primary schools and children and young people are connected to mobiles, and this continues to continue and in their participation in traffic, whether on bicycles, whether in vehicles or in vehicles, and as you yourself said in your opening presentation, an increasing number of accidents that have actually been caused, we can say that by inexplicable turns in opposite lanes or outages from the road that are largely believed to be caused by the use of cell phones during the ride. And there you would mention maybe even worse than making phone calls is texting, reading messages and typing on such cell phones. I didn't get to rephrase this to my colleague, Petriyevcan, but she mentioned sanctions for all those irresponsible drivers, for all those parents who drive their children and don't tie them up in the back seats. I agree with her, and there I believe that punishments must indeed be draconian, there we would mention, unfortunately, at another phenomenon that we can still see on our roads, which is the phenomenon that drivers of parents drive in front seats, that they drive in passenger seats, that we know in the wings what happens and at the slightest brake and that, in my opinion, the penalties should be even much bigger than they are in this law, there should be no mercy to anyone, because it is not a matter of care or care but something much more difficult, and that should be dealt with by other services, perhaps even from social service and beyond. And to conclude, only this law has to do, I believe that it will do its part of the recovery of black holes that we've been talking about actually improving the conditions on our own roads, let it do its part, and let the prevention of small legs do its part, and I think we'll have less black statistics in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139846	We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague, Saucha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm not sure if you mentioned another good thing about this law-making paper, which is that for the first time, we're gonna deal more seriously with these savages on the freeway, and then let's say that people who run around at some normal speeds are putting themselves directly at risk in a way that they stick literally to the bumper and then they're blind and they're literally able to push you off the road if you don't get away with it at that point or not because he's driving a big expensive car that can drive a lot faster than yours, and you're like some kind of freak out there that I don't know 130 and they didn't get away with it in time. And then what these people do is one more thing, which is amazing to me, every time my head hair rises, they go around the right side, so on the right side, it's amazing. So hopefully that's really going to end, and here's one idea, maybe it's not a bad idea to think about introducing that an informed car that would be driving at the time of the biggest speck, that seems pretty psychological to calm down. that kind of behavior. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139848	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139849	My colleague Sauch certainly agrees with you, daily I am on the road and on the highway and exactly what you mention, we know that mainly the limits of 130 km/h are even less on our highways, and I think that this is the speed that is enough to get everyone on time as we go, but as far as the drivers are going, I will say free and 50 km more than these restrictions are for all of us, especially in these flows, especially when other drivers are running at normal speeds, and as far as the distance from this bill is going to be in this proposal, the distance that should be greater than the one that it takes in 2 seconds, means that it will stop and I don't think that there will be only need to be good implementation, it can be related to setting more cameras on our highways because it's obvious that such individuals, such individuals, such individuals, use nothing else, and can't really be disciplined in any other way but hitting their pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139850	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you said that the law should also allow foreigners to be taken away from the vehicle. However, this law is practically discriminatory in that sense because it provides for the seizure of a vehicle if you are twice punished already by someone who is difficult to assume that the dwelling will be twice, so that a vehicle can be taken away. Therefore, and there are several other discriminatory provisions here because it is said that interested companies or natural persons will be able to verify whether anyone has a driver's license denied under penalty, etc., which is not related to foreigners. So should we apply what has already been said here that my colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic thinks she spoke about it, that it must be said that there must be reciprocity with the countries at least those in the environment about the exchange of such data i.e. charges of penalties. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139852	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139853	I agree with you, we've already talked about this, this part that I mentioned, I have to admit that I've been asked by one of our carriers who have complained that, so they're often paying as legal persons punishment, and that it's impossible for foreigners or those that companies registered in some other countries because police have the possibility of, so, just charging fines if I'm not wrong, the driver, and not the company itself, which is what they actually put themselves in an unfavourable position as legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139854	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139855	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'm glad you noted in your presentation, and we talked a little bit about it, which is infrastructure and roads. We talked a lot about the quality of the vehicle and the age of the rolling stock and everything, but we talked a little bit about infrastructure, and I think that this data too, and then we find out how much money goes into the budget for road traffic violations, and I think the only solution is to invest all that money in prevention, normally, as the main goal for future young drivers to educate them to be more cultural and quality in transport, but the rest of the money, of course not just that money, we have to invest in infrastructure. You mentioned just the black dots that are in the area of the Republic of Croatia, we can see how much progress we have made with both the highway and the rehabilitation of many roads in the Republic of Croatia, but with plus bypasses, avoidance of settlements, especially in coastal areas, we can do much more to reduce [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139856	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139857	Of course, money is always going to tell us the stumbling block, it's never enough, but I agree with you, the priority must be black spots and prevention because really in vain of all the top roads if on such roads we can drive, we can say so faster and perhaps faster than it was before, on such roads we still have black spots that actually make it worse because we have good roads with black points. It was, it might have been a little bit weird to say, maybe it was better when we had worse roads, so it couldn't have been so fast, so those black spots in some places didn't come to terms, but it happens that when we reconstructed certain roads when the conditions on these roads were improved shortly afterwards, there was an expression of some black spot that at smaller speeds did not pose such a danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139858	Thank you. We will continue with an individual debate, Comrade Bacic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139859	Dear Vice President, thank you again, welcome to the Secretary of State and the Chief. Here, we've been discussing a very important law all morning. The amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act and we talked a lot about statistics and in certain counties, but at the level of the Republic of Croatia, we all came to the conclusion that road traffic is taking a large number of lives, and that this coincides with our and our national programme, which the ministry has established, and that there is a normal need for certain changes that occurred several years ago for changes to this law, but changes are also needed with these amendments and additions. So, only in last year on our roads, as heard by the secretary of state, 316 people lost their lives, while in our national road safety programme, it is the goal of the MUP that by 2020. We cut that annual death to 213. We have also seen statistics on the Republic of Croatia compared to the EU and the EU average, meaning 77 people killed per million, while the European average of 49, so there the Ministry of Interior has also considered and looked at the introduction of little and more rigorous fines for certain road traffic offences, but also to deal differently with people who have repeatedly broken down all possible signal and safety aspects of road traffic and to put an end to them, to stop them. As far as statistics are concerned, we have seen that in the Republic of Croatia as the national programme shows that the safety belt binds about 61 drivers and passenger, passengers in the rear seats, unfortunately 13, which is a large number of children, as we have seen in the discussions of some of our colleagues, how much trouble this is and how many of our children are suffering right now is doing not only insecurity and non-connection, but also for the wrongly placed and children's seats and other equipment needed for the safe driving of children. As for the very decommissioning of persons from the vehicle due to the non-connection of the annual victims of 30 persons and, in part, to statistics related to the plotted plan of the national programme, if we had met all the conditions that we had mentioned in the national programme itself, there would have been 10% less deaths than non-connection and decommissioning from the vehicles themselves. As for children, four of the five children, as far as statistics are concerned, or improperly transported in cars, or not using children's seats, podiums, children were not tied, normally what is the responsibility of the drivers themselves, which is largely related or near relatives and their parents, but normally, we can't just go to that human factor, we need to make clear all the penalties and all the violations to end it and we've had a lot of discussion here about cell phones, about the very destruction of driving, which I think when we look at statistics and how much we all use our phones and how many new generations are connected to mobile devices and that will become drivers tomorrow, we think and we can rationally watch, that trend will only increase. 91% of the drivers phone during the ride, of which 43% of the cyclists and what the secretary of state warned us about, which I think is very important to mention, which is going to be important to the MUP, and all police officers in charge of road safety have the most problems and which is most surprising to them, which is that a growing number of traffic accidents are just caused by the inexplicable transition into the opposite lane, and there we can return normally to the phones that we all use, but I repeat, the biggest problem will only be in generations that are de facto born with a mobile device in hand which if technology does not start the car and use of the phone together in a certain way will in the coming years become a bigger and bigger problem. As regards the other statistics since 2017, it is important to note that 3581 infringements were made when driving was taken away from the driver’s driver’s license, which is evident that the existing system of withdrawal of the driver’s license has not achieved its own special purpose and this new way of points through the new amendments and additions of the Law, I think it will greatly change this, and even with the introduction of this provision to take away the vehicle itself, I think we can change and increase not only the safety but also the responsibility of all the participants in the traffic, and that it will increase at a certain point both the general and the special prevention which is also the objective of these amendments and the addition of the Law. As for drivers who keep repeating the most serious offenses, we have discussed them quite the same, and I think these changes and additions if we look at both statistics and the number of them, and the most severe violations in traffic, how many injuries they cause, these changes and are complemented by such drivers, who, for xy reasons, do not respect any signs, nor police officers, and repeat the violations more and more times, and when we look at the statistics of the Ministry of the Interior repeat one of these same violations, and it seems that these sanctions from the existing Law do not affect them. As far as the security gap is concerned, it is a good thing and a good novelty that we have introduced on highways modelled by our neighbouring Member States of the European Union, and I believe that all of these innovations that the Ministry is introducing will succeed in monitoring the techniques and new measuring devices of this kind. As for increasing fines for violations, it means for most of the violations of driving in the opposite direction, overcoming the permitted speed of movement, going through the red light at the traffic light, not using the belts, phones, we've discussed everything here, but in the public debate there have been a lot of talk about whether these penalties, the fines for such violations are fair, that is, we've seen that even some three times bigger than in the provisions so far, and now I think it's important in the future for the Ministry of the Interior to be very good at leading good statistics, whether this increase in fines will get a good result and whether it will reduce the number of violations and the number of victims in traffic. And we know that these are the ninth amendments to the law so that the law is definitely ready for a new form and the adoption of a new law. When we see statistics for a year or two, when we see whether the driver's consciousness has changed, I hope that the final bill proposal after all these amendments and additions can be reduced in the future and the penalties if we see that maybe prevention shows a better impact on drivers and that this drastic increase in fines did not have any particular effect, and we can normally consider what we have discussed, as we have mentioned in several replicas, which is this Scandinavian model by personal income, which already gives certain fines per person's personal income, so I think that in the violations, especially from road traffic, this would be an excellent model and I mean now by introducing the OIB, and all the systems that we now have through the Tax Administration, and the e-citizens as regards personal income, it is easy to measure and there would be no greater problems, and I think it would be a more fair system and more relevant to the impact. This is the next step that should be taken in new changes, not amendments and additions, but in the new final proposal of the Law, and many other effects that colleagues have mentioned here, so until the second reading, I think our ministry colleagues have enough work to do and we'll see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139860	We have five replicas on your exhibit. The first one is a colleague of the Petrijeucans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139861	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, here's the first thing about this Income Census proposal, I'd be the first to do it if it could be done in a transparent and fair way, but if we think about it a little bit more, so to speak, it would be us who are public administration and officials, and officials and so on, which is with someone who works in black, doesn't report revenues, I know that the IRS still has a lot of those who report very small incomes or don't report them as they should, and they make multiple higher incomes. How about them, then, would you help yourself or get away with it? If everything was arranged as in Scandinavian countries to the end, it would probably be possible to do so, I hope that someday it will be possible to spend, but I'm not sure right now, and as far as I'm concerned, it won't allow me any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139862	Answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139863	Thank you for the replica of my colleague. I agree with you, we have, and now, we have discussed recently a package of tourist laws, so we have seen the problem that, if there is not enough control, in terms of often and social cases that have big income from assets in tourism, but it does not show up in a way where the IRS can catch or remove such a person from the list or unemployed, or from a list of social cases, so in this case it would create problems, but in the end I think the IRS is either ready or ready at this point, or this is a smaller percentage that would be unfair if we were to count, eventually, if we could all connect people who have fewer incomes and maybe something like this happens to them, and they're dependent on their car or family, for work, there would be a lot of things that would help certain people, and here they might be a little unfair to some, but it's all in a small percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139864	Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139865	Comrade Bačić, you have said a good number of good proposals in this, however, we are going back to that beginning, so I would like this law or this problem to be presented to us in this House as one reform system of several ministries, so from the Ministry, Justice, Finance and so on, so we are talking about income censorship and then in the next sentence we all say and we are all aware that the IRS has no real state of property of our citizens, and there is no, and then how are we going to implement it? It's a long thing, the same thing I mentioned, an example in my discussion about the seizing of the vehicle, so we're going to go now to this rigorous measure that I might even in some circumstances and cases and support, but I'm not sure the MUP is willing to carry out, that there are dumps to be placed on these vehicles, who's going to keep those vehicles safe, who's going to control them so that there's no harm, who's going to affect the Courts to speed up, that fast, that we don't have ten years for some car accidents in Croatia that have ended with the most serious consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139866	Thank you. Thank you. Answer. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139867	Thank you, pal, for the replica. I think the deadline here is 15 days where the Courts are making their decisions, and as far as the car is concerned, I think there were several committees where the debate was being held and where the Secretary of State is being held, and here the Commissioner, where they have confirmed that police administrations are ready to do so, and they already have cases where vehicles are being seized for oxy other reasons, not just traffic offences, and now they're doing it most normally, there's been no problem with any damage to the property, but we also know in the case of further steps so that I think we've confirmed, both the Secretary of State and the Chief, but through these Committees that as far as the car is concerned, that they're willing to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139868	Comrade Mikulić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139869	I thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, he would refer a little to the statistics that you provided during your presentation, and he would also refer to the criticisms of certain MPs who had right towards young drivers who simply did not stand, so here's a little bit more statistics when talking about the criminal acts of traffic delinquency. For example, for 2017 of 1461 applications, 58 were judgmental verdicts for young adults, meaning below 4%, so, of course, our goal should also be to make these 3.96% 0,0% for which prevention and more significant, and more frequent apparition of the dangers that exist in traffic, but we definitely must not generalise and accuse young people who are largely responsible and responsible, and aware and cautious drivers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139870	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139871	Statistics are accurate there and by this percentage although young drivers especially when they commit serious violations, especially when they are in vehicles of a stronger category, they often get to the front page of the newspaper and it turns out to be a big social problem, until we see statistics that say 3% of the serious criminalities about traffic, and then we realize that this is not such a problem. You don't need to judge normal young drivers, but what I've mentioned before, as far as young drivers are concerned, but also car cubics themselves, but also transport cultures themselves, I think that these prevention programs of the Ministry of the Interior can do much more to make us have more quality, cultured drivers than any punishment or restrictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139872	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139873	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you have also looked back on the National Road Safety Strategy, that here the Ministry has drawn a 50% reduction on our roads by 2022, and one part of prevention is of course investment in road infrastructure, we know that we have a lot of highways, but however our local and city roads are in a pretty bad state, 32 black spots have been discovered, of which 9 have been rehabilitated, I sincerely hope that the resolution of these local roads will naturally be done much in prevention or reduction of the number of deaths, but you have looked back today in your debate and in the participation of the cyclists which is here, a small number so far people who have spoken, in the discussions, have looked back on that part, which is...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139874	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139875	Thank you, colleagues, for the replica. As far as cyclists are concerned, we in Dalmatia and Zagora have a smaller problem with cyclists, because it's a little more hilly so there aren't as many as there are in northern Croatia, but here we saw only 33% of the cyclists are willing to use a mobile device while driving. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to have a bit of a patriotic view, as far as Dalmatia and Primorje are concerned, we had a big problem about cycling routes, and that's that part of the infrastructure where cities and municipalities, and the County have to invest more in it, for example by looking at a city of Split or Zadar, or Dubrovnik, there's no... Maybe a few kilometers of cycling trails, which is definitely unacceptable, tomorrow both for pedestrians and cyclists, but generally for traffic safety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139876	Thank you, and the last replica of your presentation, colleague Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139877	Thank you very much. My colleague, in your presentation, you have repeated as usual and your predecessors, and you have put emphasis among other things on the prescribed proposal to increase fines for different categories of violations, somewhere double, somewhere even 3 times more than the previous ones, and you have also highlighted this as, therefore, a repressive measure and you have very well concluded here, here I really agree with you that it is necessary to monitor the effect now when the law comes into force of these measures, to monitor whether there will be a reduction in the number of violations, and hence the casualties, and especially the fatal casualties on the roads, and what you have said crucially, I think it is very important here. Whether the driver's consciousness will change and whether repressive measures will affect the driver's consciousness, it remains to be seen. And I would just add that, with these measures, it certainly is necessary to take care of the prevention and education. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139878	Thank you. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139879	Thank you, Vice President, my colleague, for the fine and, in particular, so little dragonish we can call it a influence. I remember when for not wearing a helmet when driving a motorcycle was a punishment I mean 50 kuna, 50, 100 kuna, when I bought the first scooter, and then she jumped from 50 to 700, right? And that was meant at that time when she was 50, 100 kunas no one wore a helmet and even when the bikes themselves were being bought, the bikers didn't offer you, as far as I remember, the helmet next to the bike. And now in each action you have 2 helmets right now and it's unquestionable and everyone wears a helmet just for the sake of fines, not so much for safety. So this is definitely going to get the effect of how much effect we have to see for ourselves. That's why we need to do a good analysis, maybe in some ways a fine and it won't be that important, and some things will be repeated, but that's why we have prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139880	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is a colleague of Sinisha Varga, here's a colleague of Varga's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139881	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues here I have studied the law and I am a little caught up in the fact that you have not addressed the issue of smoking in cars. In fact, I see in the draft law that has been delivered to us in, on our benches, a public debate of several sides has touched the question, but I also found the answer that was received from the Ministry of Security, where here I will not list them all, but the Ombudsman for children of the Republic of Croatia in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act has proposed for Article 30 to include a ban on smoking especially when the underage child is in the car for a valid 2 reasons. One reason is that it interferes with the driver during the ride as much as the mobile phone, and also the public health segment smoking in a closed area that has less than 2 cubes of space often and even less than that and when a cigarette is lit in such a small space has been scientifically proven to have an impact on the health of that non-smoking person who is close by. However, the ministry replied that we do not consider that there are strong enough arguments that neither the criteria for such regulation. I believe that scientific evidence of the impact of second-hand smoke on non-smoking smoke has also been scientifically proven, and interference during driving has been demonstrated in several cases of traffic accidents directly related to driver's attention when using tobacco or other products as smokers. So here's my appeal to the ministry to prepare for the next reading to change this, if you don't do it, I'll make an amendment, I hope my colleagues will support it because I think that, I think, the justification for the suppression of smoking in closed spaces like the car has more importance. It's not just a matter of safety and obstruction of the driver, it's also the health of all the passengers in the car. In the end, literature on the Internet shows that it's also connected to the fires that are happening, which are back in the M.O.P.'s intelligence. In fact, we know that the dumped chick from the car on dry grass next to the roads is a very common cause, the cause of the fire. So this would also be one measure to stop our summer fires that are taking hold and causing major material damage. What should be particularly stressed is that the World Health Organization de facto recognises only two methods of reducing smoking in the population. The Republic of Croatia has an unfamous almost record of smoking young people in Europe, almost worldwide, and the share of smokers is also about 1/3 of the population, which is absolutely too high and that figure should be below 10%, as in civilized countries, which have been fighting smoking for decades. One of the measures these countries have where smoking has managed is to reduce the availability of smoking facilities. No smoking in public places, no smoking in the workplace, no smoking in everywhere and there is a ban on smoking in private cars. These measures have been taken by Canada, America, the UK, France, so I don't count all the countries now. Currently, in Slovenia, it has already made amendments and additions to the law since 1.1.2020, smoking in a car with a minor child is prohibited in the Republic of Slovenia, and currently there are discussions in parliaments in Finland, Greece, Ireland and many other countries. So, it's a measure that has certainly been found on fertile soil in terms of arguments in many countries, already done here in the UK since 2015, and that's something that I think is like a country that has a very high share of smokers, I think as a measure of reducing the availability of a place where you can smoke is as a measure of public health to combat general smoking in the general population. Here I appeal to the Ministry of the Interior to use its position specifically in amending and supplementing this law to contribute to the reduction of smoking among Croatian citizens. Here I would like to conclude and comment only from earlier discussions on traffic safety, i.e. experiencing accidents is a matter of emergency arrangements. In fact, the emergency helicopter medical service only existed for four months during the pilot project while I was a minister. The criticisms that came back then were that we hired helicopters from Airbus Eurocopter 135 and 145 that were placed to the media that they were helicopters with the highest frequency of crashes, accidents, etc. And with regard to the miracle of the celestial MUP, then, for its own needs to control the Schengen border from European funds, it bought exactly Eurocopter 145. So that's something I think was declassified by the opposition at the time. I believe we now have the potential for consensus on the matter of emergency helicopter medical services. I think we all need to get our heads together, especially the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, so emergency helicopter medical services can be made available, not just to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for the disabled on roads for acute patients, from stroke, heart attack and all other injuries. But also for our guests as a tourist country. Many tour operators say they are not willing to bring more tours to the Republic of Croatia precisely because we do not have an emergency helicopter medical service provided. So then the Ministry of Tourism should be involved, and I believe that the Ministry of Tourism has its responsibility on this segment that as a multi-sectoral cooperation, this emergency helicopter medical service should be established. We should thank the Ministry of Defence for working together for now on entering this space that was vacuum and insufficient where the Sanitary Transport provided by the military with MI-8 helicopters was produced in 1967 was necessarily evil but aid to many patients when they needed it. However, in a large number of disillusioned persons on roads in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately there was no rescue because MI-8 cannot land anywhere but exclusively on authorized helipads and so that this golden clock in which treatment should begin from the time of injury or from acute illness could not then be achieved through the services provided by the military. Finally, all EU directives regulating civil transport say exactly how emergency helicopter medical services can work and it is said to be in civil order and all passengers must be provided and military transporters do not belong either to the civil sector or to traffic that can be secured by insurance companies. So I ask the MUP to also influence the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Tourism to establish an emergency helicopter medical service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139882	We have two replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of the Petrieucans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139883	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, involved in smoking in the car. I personally consider myself often threatened by smokers in indoors and I am not a minor child and I am aware that I can get away. But I understand that this is about one noble intention, but I'm afraid what a weak effect it would be. Because if a parent, it's more a matter of psychology and responsible parenting than a question of the MUP, even though I understand the noble intention and I know about this partnership with other countries. Because if a parent, or even a pregnant woman smokes pregnancy, later smokes in the house or in the apartment, she will smoke in the car. Unfortunately, you'll just cause some kind of obstetrics or spite to say what the state is messing with me in my private space. I know the car isn't a private space but also some research, you're probably familiar with them as well, showing the exact opposite. So I'm not sure of the real effect. [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139884	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139885	I'm thanking you. So I'm not a public health care professional except that I absolutely support everything and public health activities. However, the World Health Organization at global level has proved from research into hundreds of thousands of citizens that if you narrow down places where people are allowed to smoke to resort to quit smoking rather than smoke out of spite. So this is research done in extremely large populations in several countries. Of course, you'll always have individuals who will force innates. Also, the argument specifically comes from the MUP that if the price of cigarettes rises as another smoking control measure that people will then resort to cigarette smuggling, it is the second pair of sleeves. We don't have that soft stomach for Bosnia since we see that we don't even have migrants coming through, and then they won't even have cigarettes. So I believe that all these measures that have been proven in the world are quite applicable in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139886	Thank you. Here you go, pal Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139887	Thank you, dear Vice President. As for your story about cigarettes, I agree with that because a cigarette is something like a cell phone in the car, cigarette burning, use of a cigarette falling barbecue, falling a cigarette on the floor can cause a lot of bad driver concentration. But the other thing you were talking about is helicopter service. Experts have calculated that Croatia indirectly loses more than 10 million kunas because we do not have a Croatian helicopter service precisely because of that golden watch, how much higher the cost of treatment is because we cannot transport in that golden hour unhappy to hospitals. So I urge the government to introduce a helicopter emergency service as soon as possible. There are people who have been doing this, who have offered and who have worked everything out just needs good will, and in this way I think we would have saved almost as much as it costs a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139888	Thank you. Here's my colleague Varga's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139889	Here's a thank you. My colleague here absolutely agrees with what you've said and I can give you the same information that's back on the M.O.P. During 2018 18 lives were saved by citizens who used automatic defibrillators installed in public places such as airports, bus stations, some hotels etc. The fact is that all 18 citizens who saved another citizen's life were foreigners. No Croatian citizen has taken part in this. This is part of insufficient training on emergency assistance during education, i.e. driving licence. So again here I appeal to the awareness of what is needed for human health, not just enough doctor, but the whole society needs to work harder to keep our citizens alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139890	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Miroslav Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe that we are all here in agreement with the goal of achieving this law to reduce the number of people killed and killed on the roads and to reach 5% from this 3% annually. However, I think that the philosophy that this is applied in this law to go through repressive measures rather than preventive action, I think that it is not good and that it is therefore necessary to amend certain legal provisions. In the light of this law, it is pointed out that the main problems of mortality, what we might call subjective reasons, alcohol, speed, or too fast, are not the use of a safety belt and mobile phone. However, we should also consider those objective reasons simply for illustration, a few years ago we had in the MUP's report that in 1980 there were 1603 or 1604 dead on the roads, today it was 318 last year. Thus, nearly 40 years ago, the number of road deaths was reduced to 1/5. In other words, what contributed to this is what Varga colleague Varga was saying on the one hand, it was an ambulance, that golden watch that was determined to save one part of life, on the other hand the quality of the car and on the third hand the quality of the roads. When we add that within 40 years the volume of traffic on the roads is far greater than it was then we see that actually these objective factors are more crucial than these, let's call them subjective or these four reasons. Therefore, I do not believe in this thesis that is often repeated in the reasoning of certain items that sanctions do not meet their purpose. I think the preventive action is what needs to be the basis and logic behind the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. So when we tell a preventive action to just say what, what I mean. Here we're talking about radar, cameras and other these means, I think the logic of things should be that we take the practice of certain countries if we use roadwork that there has to be a sign that the radar is set up and that the radar is functional. If cameras are set up that there must be a mark that drivers not only local but everyone who passes those roads knows there's a camera in front of them. So if someone's determined enough to break that rule then there's no reason not to punish him. I also think it's a guilty message that police ambushes or vehicles are standing or cops are running behind the bushes and stopping the vehicles. It would be far more logical if they stood public to be seen and to act preventively in this way. I also don't see the logic of interceptors on these roads, the fast roads being in unmarked vehicles instead of being in vehicles marked and thus operating on roads. So in particular, I think someone has already spoken, and I think about vertical communication. Already what I remember for 40 years you have the mark that somewhere 40km is allowed to drive and the quality of the vehicle, roads, etc., should therefore be aligned with current capabilities, or vehicles, because today's vehicle that can be stopped on a much shorter route than any vehicle 10 or 20 years ago. When we talk about the level of punishment, I think I agree with those who have said it is inappropriate, that it is not good, but if we want to achieve the goal that the Proposer also suggests that it primarily refers to the relapsers, then we should introduce some additional ones, as I would say between actions or procedures. First, I think it would be good for most of these things if there were warnings, if there were one or two. It was our committee to propose two warnings. Given that there is this information system, it is no longer possible to enter such information to make it available to all traffic users or to the police or to those who are in breach of traffic. Therefore, that one, that only after two warnings, is going to charge the fine. The clear point is that this does not apply to relapsists and those who have, who have a reduced use of the vehicle of this driver's license or who are, who are driving under the influence of alcohol etc., so that would be one logic that would make sense. On the other hand, I think that these penalties are too large, they start to increase by 2 to 3 times or 200 or 300% if that's easier for you to say. I think even the use of a cell phone has increased from 500 to 1,500 kuna, which is just beyond any sense. It will also pay this one in Germany or somewhere else much, much less. Therefore, I think that these penalties, the initial tariffs should be left in the way it has been so far, and these most penalties can remain especially for the re-depositees. So in this way, this philosophy can change which, if it wants to achieve this goal as defined. On the other hand, look, we're talking about this illicit use of a cell phone, it would be much more logical to suggest that the vehicles that will be bought have, but now I don't know what the Croatian term for this handless free cell means that bluetooth is connected, but already most of the vehicles have, therefore with it can be used mobile if, if you don't need to be engaged with these manipulations on your mobile, therefore these standards would be good to propose in one of the laws under which it would be logical to suggest, that this equipment is standardly, standardized. Because let's not forget 40 years ago even the belts weren't mandatory equipment, so now they are. Therefore, in this respect these changes should go on. There are two things that are not clear to me here. On this committee, we have learned that the local government is the one that determines the signalling of this vertical which speeds will go. However, there should be order in place because I think there may be no HAC on national roads or local authorities, but there must be some other standard, that this signalling must be reconsidered in order to determine the speed of road rides under today's conditions. And on the other hand, what I have to admit is not clear to me with the proposal to introduce this video recording of driving exams, I don't know who it is that's being controlled, the drivers who take place, the instructors who educate them, the schools that end it, or the ones who control it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139892	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one is a colleague of Bedekovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139893	Thank you very much, my colleague. I've already tried to highlight it through the following replicas to previous speakers, so I'm glad you've pointed out that in your presentation. In fact, you too have a dilemma in some way and you conclude that this proposal is more legally based on repressive measures, and less on preventive measures, and I am now stressing again the question of how much impact it will be, and we will see that by following this law through time. And yet I stress the question of how much and to what extent will only the repressive measures succeed in changing the driver's mind? And so I tend to the thesis, that the preventive action among other things should be the logical basis of this law, and I suggest that the second reading be considered on the completion of the prevention provisions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139894	Thank you. Here's your answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139895	I have no doubt that the repressive measures do not achieve what can be achieved by preventive measures, so I think this is an inadequate approach. I said which proposals should be introduced to turn this model from repressive to preventive, especially because these penalties are simply unsustainable if you want to. Because someone who has an average salary needs to work for 3 months to pay off this maximum penalty, someone who has a salary of 3,000 should work almost 10 months a year, and that will simply result in this poor state, bad attitude towards people in the system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139896	Thank you. Dear Djujic, please choose your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139897	Thank you very much, colleague Tudjman I agree with you in this particular section that you should place a greater emphasis on preventive compared to repressive. And you well mentioned this example where the cameras on the roads that measure the speed and filming of drivers in certain violations have the mark that this is where the drivers are recorded. Let's say the MUP set off to get these cameras a few years ago and my county where I live was among the first in Croatia where it was being conducted. Today it is done in the rest of Croatia, and these are even the frames in which there are no cameras always, but these cameras are moving around Croatia as needed, but it has greatly reduced the speed of driving on a river bypass which was a rather critical area, but the very presence of these boxes of citizens never know whether the camera is inside or not, but they are already looking for themselves and that is exactly the preventive aspect. And I support this idea of hand free as mandatory equipment in cars so much as such devices can be obtained today for some 1000 kuna and right here the penalty is almost double the amount of money for which it could be obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139898	Thank you. Answer, here's Comrade Tudjman, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139899	Thank you. As far as these cameras are concerned, we agree that when a man knows he's in danger of getting a letter from his home with that check, he's going to think hard and he's not going to do anything wrong. But there's something else, and I think cameras can be placed where there's no sign of it, but simply so that the M.P. can investigate which critical places such cameras should be placed and that people can be informed that they've committed a violation but not a payment to pay for it. So I think that logic should also be contained in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139900	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next fellow is Ivica Misic. Here's a colleague of Misic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139901	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretary of state with a colleague. In any case, laws need to be developed, changed, and traffic. I personally think about what I read here about the heights of punishment, I think they're a little repressive, they're a little too strong for our citizens' standards. We keep mentioning in these discussions what the Swedes, the Germans, the Austrians, the Western countries, I can agree, here and through the debates we heard that there are fewer people dead than our own. But we wonder if we have to change ourselves and that's the process. We still came out of a country where we didn't have democracy, we didn't educate ourselves enough in that sense, we just have to go away and watch what we do, how we raise our children, how we work in schools. I still think we're doing it now. If we remember after the war how many Croats tied up, it was only a belt that was very, very small. Why am I saying that? Because I'm an associate with a Slovenian firm, so I often went to Slovenia, and whenever someone sat in my car, he took a belt and tied himself up. That's not what we've been doing, that's what we've been doing, so I have to say either shame or ignorance. But I still don't think we were educated, we weren't raised in that sense. And that's the most important thing I'd like to say that repression doesn't mean we're gonna make it. What my colleague Tudjman was saying was that prevention would be good, education, of course and punishment. And those who are punished aren't so small, but they're warning and they're very, very important. Respecting the state itself, I'd go from one thing to another and here I'm noticing on the highways every day I'm here for Easter, ours, usually our people who are in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, going 140, he flashes to you, you see that he's a stranger. I think he doesn't want to respect this country, he wants to show it. But that's the thing we're missing. We can have repression, we can educate, but we have to stay on it, of course. We recently prescribed a law not to smoke in cafes. What's going on today? He's smoking. Who's going around? No one. Yeah, we got tunnels, here's the other day a young man died and this priest was hurt, I don't know if he's alive, and I was walking through a tunnel where a man drives 150, safe and not more. Let's put the cameras on the gear, we'll have it, we'll put the cameras on the highway, we'll give the signs in front of those cameras, so he can't say I didn't know or I didn't forget anything, but let's give the signs that he sees it. Well, the interceptors, I agree, they do, there's no doubt they don't need to, but we could, of course, drive along with the tags and go on the road to say again, here you see... We're a police state, no, we need to be taught, we need to be taught. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're in the process and we're in the process, so we're wrong ourselves. Here we say through the red pass you have that, that, that. So let's say who didn't do it in that sense, yellow, red. Yeah, that happens to us, too. But we have in cities and local communities the same drivers who keep causing problems, and the police need to know and know. What's going on? Well, I can believe the police are working on it, but if this guy doesn't listen and he's still... Put him in jail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did we hear the rich German buy BMW and Audi or don't know what to his 20-year-old kids? We didn't. How many of these children died on our roads, how many people died at pedestrian crossings and how many innocents were killed, and here are the girls so we don't say in Split and down what was happening and all over Croatia. Who's to blame? No, it's not the police's fault, they've got rules and a walking crossing, we all know it, but we have something my dad gave me and said I'm the one who can drive a 100,000-euro car. Yeah, that's the fault of our education. When we move from repression to education, when education passes the repression, when we realize we won't do it because it's still our country, we want to live in it nicely, drive neatly, start in time and we still don't do it. We're not going home on the tram, so we're going to go to the Parliament, we're going to drive, so we're going to show up in front of some place, etc., we're not going to take taxis and stuff like that. We can put as much prices as we want, we can have full prisons, but we haven't found a solution. The solution is in the education of young drivers, and even psychologists should be applied to certain drivers and put in prisons certainly. The phones in the car, I agree, may be more dangerous than even the speed in one moment. We don't have enough quality cars, but we have so much quality that we can drive fast because everyone today is over 150, 160, 170, and that's what certain people use, and that's what we all see in traffic when we drive. I personally think we have to work on prevention, not so much to ask for penalties, we can't compare to Germany, if in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, here we have friends who work there, so they say how much they are for belts, so we're somewhere here, I think that price is quite appropriate for our receipts and to supplement these laws, yes. Put on signs so I'd even, sometimes when I drive someone call and say so you see this wild on the right-hand side going around and stuff like that. So it should be on all the highway signs, call that number, but you don't have to introduce yourself, you have a phone that calls you to say someone, here, that driver makes it, that, that, on the road. In us, then where you come from, and who you are, and what for, so how until you explain it, you lose your will to even tell someone that someone's causing a problem because then you're in trouble and things like that. I personally think, prevention and education of young people we move forward. True, it's not true that we're so far behind, but to get to Europe, it takes at least 20, 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139902	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139903	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Misic, you said in your statement that punishments may be too strong for this standard of our citizens as we have and that we must primarily change ourselves and that I absolutely agree with you, but the question is where to start and how to encourage this change. I'm going to pull an anthology on forestry actually, on the profession from which I came and when I started working in forestry 15 years ago, that protective helmet, that helmet in forestry was, we can say science fiction, no one was wearing it, it was very hard to educate and act through prevention, until they started rigorous controls and punishment for it, and in just a few years, in five, six years it changed very quickly, so today that helmet, that helmet, actually under normal as soon as it got out of the car, puts it on the head, and then it's easier for young people to teach them that it's okay when they don't have bad examples from the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139904	Thank you. Answer, fellow Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139905	Thanks, buddy. I fully agree with you that helmets should be, it should always be. But you know yourself until the fines were that those helmets weren't... No matter how much trouble you have, everyone gets killed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's exactly what I was saying, educate myself, and we older ones have to be younger, of course, and younger ones, I think they accept it, and I even look at the seats, so I have grandchildren myself, so I see everybody tied up and that's good. But it doesn't have to happen right away, in the city, it just happened 100 meters, it didn't tie up a kid who's 10 years old, straight away, fines 1,000 kn, two. There may need to be a little elasticity though I think it should be, but that process we have to go through and we're passing it and I mean even high-quality, but time has to do its part, it's not all that easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139906	Thank you for your response. The next replica is a respected colleague of Professors. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Misic, you have said two things to teach us, i.e. to be educated, but precisely in that, if we have a repressive mechanism then police officers and employees will always feel not like those who help but who are on the other side of the interest or behaviour of citizens. So that law, that is, should be redefined the way I used to say it. On the other hand, what you mentioned today seems to me to be the first time in this discussion about this speeding ride and it has mostly been about young drivers. But my experience is that, in fact, on open roads, to an equal extent, you run faster than allowed speeds because when you drive fast, vehicles with foreign registrations, not only with domestic ones. I can't claim which is more or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139908	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. Unfortunately, time's up. Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139909	Comrade Tudjman, I agree with you and I see it on the highway, that these young ones, but the sides, the sides of the markings are, are, most of them, young people who drive very fast and too fast, not fast but too fast. Of course there are older people who have the will to drive a little faster, but I don't think they're fast-driving 150 miles/h, and 130 is a limit, it's not some big speed or 160, but already 200, 250, 30, that drastic punishment has to be and it needs to be subdued and that's what I personally think is the problem. And of course, I just said, our parents when they have money buy kids angry cars and, of course, that, they don't feel that speed in those cars, but when you have to stop or don't give God when someone jumps out, then you're not, then you're in trouble and that's, like, just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139910	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139911	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's something I want to say about amendments to the Law on Road Safety. I think this is a law that goes in the right direction, but it certainly needs to be done a little bit, and after this debate, a little bit of respect for what the MPs say because we're looking at what's most important in this whole story, so that's the end result, the number of deaths. And we compare ourselves to some other times and compare the figures, we can conclude that all governments and states from the 1990s seemed to move here so that it would never happen to us or that it would never happen to us again what we had in the 1990s, and we had 1360 deaths in traffic in the Republic of Croatia, and that's the information that we need to be some sort of direction to see if after almost 30 years of our country and all the governments that we had and all of the ministers and all of us living in it, that the safety of road traffic didn't result in the end of what was the worst and those were mortally lost. Unfortunately today, four victims in one car accident, one child up to 14 years old, shows that sometimes neither the state nor the government, nor the police, nor the punishment, nor the good infrastructure, nor the highway, nor the road, nor the traffic sign is crucial in that the worst outcome will occur. And in this whole story, finding the best or the best line or the most righteous line is simply not easy. What the state has been doing since the end of the '90s is clear and visible that it was responding to that number from the '90s, and then in 2000, we recorded 655 deaths in traffic. So after 10 years, we practically have a 100% reduction compared to the '90s. And then it started with the National Road Safety Programme and all the governments were bringing it for longer or shorter periods, and we now have the strength to think from 2011 to 2020, which as the ultimate goal set up 213 deaths at the end of 2020. If they realized that they could probably say that the government and that all of those components of this traffic security problem had made the maximum possible and had achieved some of their goals, God had made them 100% less. And then we say, let's compare with others. In other countries that are most perfect when it comes to traffic, too, the best punishments or the most appropriate punishments are also killed. I took the example of Switzerland, which we all constantly call upon, which also received the award as the best state in terms of road safety, which has 7.5 million inhabitants. And they last year, if I saw well they had, in 2016 they had 216 deaths, so at 7.5 million, they were practically going to say 100% better than we did in that segment, since there's something, 100% less. But our goal is an example of what we had in 2008 when we had 664 dead and it was some kind of signal to move even better or even more high-quality in finding measures that could prevent this number of deaths from simply growing than reducing each year. There are numerous researches, numerous works of many prominent people, scientists who are these exact figures, and we can't just run away from them for days and months when accidents happen, in which time periods, I've looked at it a little bit. And it's simple to conclude that it's obviously season, the number of vehicles in traffic is growing since we have a large number of tourists coming in cars and at that time we have the most dead, that they die most in the night, that at least they die in the period of 6-12 hours, that we just have, means basically the whole system is put together to see what's happening to us and where we need to react. Can we, like the government or the ministry or the minister of every driver, train him to be able to avoid any kind of a misdemeanor, an event on the road or we can't do that? Of course we can't, no one can, neither can this law nor this punishment, be it 5, 15, or 40,000 kuna. It's simply a question that our citizens have to work on, but all of us as a whole, because the fact is that now we're going as little as I'm hearing with the debate, all punishments are too great. How much money we'd pay if we could get these four lives back today. The question is, probably a lot. And that's why it's up to each of us whether it's the government's fault if it sets the rules that we need to follow, so let the rules set up local self-government and if it's our fault if we don't want to respect them. Well, I think at a time like this everyone knows he's guilty if he doesn't want to follow a rule that's next to him or he's seen it or he's noticed it, but he's got some kind of rhythm. We're all drivers, we're on roads daily, and it's just a matter of how much we can concentrate and when we start to concentrate when we enter space, that's how much we can concentrate. driving or on the road. We heard today, the biggest problems of some cell phones, conversations, everything we do in a closed area, we do more or less in a car, and it's just a reduced concentration, it just puts us at risk at all times. I live on the island of Radu, we have every arrival on the ferry is the same adventure because we have a time to get in and out of the island and, of course, in such traffic it may be best to drive in summer, we have a highway, we have a column, and everyone is driving nice, appropriate under the permitted speeds, but in winter it is a little different and all sorts of wishes of state through the system to put traffic signs, to put hidden or cameras that are seen or to put some kind of warning often are not respected, and people continue to drive in the rhythm that they consider to be the most suitable and best. And what's going to happen on that road, we can meet a cop, a little talk, but mostly, it's important to me that, maybe when it comes to these bigger penalties that this system is warning, I don't know if it's still valid, the first warning so you learn something or we go straight to punishment as we do on some situations that it might be the same moment to think, because after the first warning, I think every driver thinks very well about what he's going to do next time, but if he pays right now, he'll probably think much faster. I don't know, maybe given the level of penalties that have been increased two or three times maybe to see what can be prescribed there because I don't think it's just a punishment in height that's going to solve a particular problem by the end more is what we've been saying, there's a little more prevention and what we're seeing on that road or we're seeing during our own drive and this kind of moment where we're sure that something's watching us. We all know now it's nice that here's the MUP announcements are right there and there's the cameras, everyone's looking at that space nice and it's pretty safe and nothing's going to happen there. However, when that space passes we are aware that we have passed that space and then we continue to drive as we think it is best, so that this prevention makes sense, and even if it is fictional, it's not exactly true, but it doesn't matter, people are following it today, and they are very aware that the kuna is worth it, and they simply don't want to give it just as easily to the system or punishment, and because of that they are willing to be, in my opinion, disciplined because what we've already heard today is that by entering into the space of another country very quickly we accept their rules, and very quickly in Slovenia we will do everything as it says and how it is done there, but there is perception, not only us, but also those tourists who come and here may be allowed to do something in their own countries that is not allowed and behave. We often see Hungarian driving so far along the highway, this so much and so much so., the police are doing their job correctly and I don't think there are any big problems, there are few of them, there are so many that we can control them all the way to the end, but at this point I say, the government probably does what it can do, makes it clear that they're going to penalize irresponsible behavior in traffic, and it's up to us citizens to learn, whether by the second reading we can fix a little bit of this punishment to be a little more appropriate for what we've heard and our receipts that they really aren't dragonic, but where they should be and then we need to find one moment to find this number that I was talking about, and they just died in 2020, and they're still reducing to some level that might be acceptable in Croatia, and that's a lot of it's under 200, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139912	I thank my colleague, Boric. Replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139913	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Boric and you, among other things, are troubled by the level of punishment and you may say that things will not be resolved only by punishment, but also by prevention, I am sure that as a proponent of this law, as well as by analysing those models that are related to Scandinavia and in our countries in the near environment, so that the best solution can be made, because every human life can not be paid by any punishment, but what you have in one part of it would be good and what you have touched, was good that in cooperation with the MUP unit of local self-government, therefore, municipalities, cities and counties, in your area, knowing those black spots or threats that come right from their areas through the communal offices, can be very helpful in preventing and security of traffic on the roads. Therefore, it is necessary to appeal to municipalities and cities to actually appeal and help the MUP or to be more secure from their experience. and a minor death. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139914	...respected colleague Babic. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139915	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, here's a good observation, here I come from the island, we have had the rehabilitation of a state road and it is after that rehabilitation a suitable road that almost has been on the last 3.g. Since she's finished, there's absolutely no traffic accidents. So, highway infrastructure and good transport infrastructure have achieved some of their maximum, it will always be possible to fix some points that even citizens warn themselves, but we happen to make good road and bad horizontal signalling, that we have on the front end of the road full of line, and on the non-transparent we have broken lines, there's just obviously not enough control of these kind of projects that do, marking these signals, there should be a little control because there's really a lot of things going on with that horizontal signalling, while we see that this vertical one is really numerous, we can't say that there's a lack of local self-government doing its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139916	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. Next debate, dear colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139917	Thank you, Vice President HS. Here, we've heard a lot in all the previous discussions today, the positive one, but also the negative one about these penalties that will follow this new law. Here, I'll start with some statistics, so I'll say that today on the roads or that's last year's data, we have 1.6 million vehicles. The bigger problem than the number of vehicles is the age of the vehicle on our roads, last year the average was 13, and if we look at it in 2007. The average age of the car was 10 years. Of course, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU simplified the process of importing used cars and thus increased the number. In 2007, the U.S. We had 75,000 registered new cars, and last year we had 60,000 registered new cars, 80,000 used. Of course, speaking of this, I must also say that in the Republic of Croatia, so that's last year's data, 25% of traffic accidents are caused by a technically invalid vehicle, the EU average is 15%. Of course, the number of people killed and killed on the roads thank God in the last few years in the downfall, with this national road traffic safety programme, I see that a very ambitious plan is in place, so until 2020. If 50% were to be reduced, here I must say that in my county, that mortality is below, of course, if we had 8 dead last year, this year, thank God it's only one, so it would be nice to stay on top by respect or by a smaller number of road deaths. We also talked about these penalties, of course, that we all agreed that frequent relapsers have such high sentences, of course I am for those who have the first offense or for those who are not really, who are not in violation of traffic that those penalties are not for the first time high, to introduce an institute maybe, I don't know, some warning or much less punishment than this one, but here from somewhere it has to start, of course when, God forbid some traffic accident, we're full of the media and we're all for some reduction of the injured on the roads, but maybe here we're not for the introduction of some high penalties. Here we are today in the debate, all of us, some of us talking about the black spots that are seen in the Republic of Croatia 32 and black spots of which 9 of them have been resolved by EU funds, of course we have the most problems with local roads, our highways are among the safer and better in the EU, but those local roads are still roads in which we need to invest a lot. Of course, here it is, and counterpart Ante Babic said that there are local leaders who, of course, must first recognize and see what roads are, which are the road sections because where such traffic accidents happen the most. Of course, I said there was a lot going on, but here we go back to these four main factors that are this biggest in car accidents. It's alcohol, speed, belt detachment, and cell phone use. Every four tragedies were caused, in traffic it was caused so the unsub was under alcohol. What do you do with those? Of course, those should be maximum punishment, especially if these are common perpetrators, and I said that at the very beginning, especially, but of course I'm going back to this part of prevention. Prevention is very important here is where fellow Misic went and he said one of the really handsome examples, we in the Republic don't use it that much, but outside you it's perfectly normal that if you didn't know better parked in front of your building, in front of your house, he will report you and he doesn't think it's anything wrong. So here we might not know a proposal, introduce some free phone on which all of us traffic users come across a lot of such situations, I don't even know on the highway you stick to the retailer, let's get you off the freeway and there's, of course, this law of a stronger dish, if it has a faster car or even doesn't have to have a faster car, if it doesn't behave properly on the freeway, so why don't we report such a traffic participant. We don't have a rule, but I think here's where we go from ourselves, and I think there's a lot we can do as an individual. Of course, I think that we can and should consider these first offences that may not be so high, but for these relapsers I think and I think that we should keep this high-level sentence that you have proposed in the law, even bigger because of course we need to reduce that mortality in traffic, but here I stress that we should certainly keep an eye on and through prevention to do the maximum to reduce the number of traffic accidents of course with those most difficult ones, where we have died in traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139918	I thank my colleague Maximchuk. Replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139919	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Maximchuk, nothing in life is static, so neither is this Transport Act, and in fact it is a reaction to the great killings on our roads. You have touched the mental set of our people, the temperament of young people, young people, and it is a unique rebellion, insolence, and even when they get in touch with the car, they do so with much more adrenaline. You mentioned the re-renaissance of the driver, truth be told, I think this law foresees even taking the driver's license for a certain time, but also laying down, re-suspending the driver's exam. Let's say, here in Germany you call it idiotente, so it might be offensive here, but it's a test for idiots, so someone who twice repeats the same thing, and pays that same driving test twice, for them it's a test for idiots. So, with those names, they actually work on young people, not just young people, but they do, too. Which.../incomprehensible/... and relapses are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139920	...to a respected colleague named Babic. Answer, colleague Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139921	Yeah, well, my colleague here's exactly what I'm familiar with because one part of my life I've lived outside and I know how it goes. To know what they say, you Croat us while we punish ourselves in the pocket we won't regain consciousness, so this may be one of the ways in which we introduce order on our roads or how we teach traffic participants order, but here's another, I agree that for these relapsers we should have more stringent measures but I'm still repeating for those first offenders maybe here there should be some milder penalties than here in this bill, so I expect here until the second reading we will certainly iron out, work out and be the best possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139922	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139923	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry of this proposal of the Road Safety Act and the increase of penalties will certainly not only be by law and only by increasing penalties will we contribute to reducing traffic accidents and reducing road mortality in the Republic of Croatia. It is certain that this should be approached systematically and that in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and Tourism, as we have heard today can make one direction that will surely come together to this goal we do not have more than 200 people killed on our roads, and this should certainly start from home education from all of us, from kindergarten and school to car school and the quality of driving tests themselves. When it comes to our youngest, we are particularly sensitive and I welcome those activities that the ministry has undertaken in prevention Respect our signs, children in transport, but I would also mention there many civil associations. Civil society associations which, in cooperation with the Ministry and the Croatian Autoclub, organise a series of actions to raise awareness of the need to protect themselves and others in transport and to worry about how we behave in transport. Of course, that transport culture depends on this law and that the only correct thing that will make us respect the rules is that we are all punished who do not respect the rules and who do not drive by the rules. However, in Croatia, unfortunately, the most often or in the good part of the case is not partly due to the justice that has already been mentioned which court proceedings are taking too long, and I am not sure that this merger of infringement courts with municipal courts will also contribute to the speed up of the proceedings and that these penalties will be given in due time because we have heard today that the criminal courts have been doing well and have responded in time to the mandate of the MUP and now by joining with the municipal courts they will certainly get some other cases of misdemeanors and certainly will slow these processes down, so I said that there is a need for cooperation with other ministries when such measures are being taken. And it's also not good for some to avoid paying the fines, who's protecting them? What are they protected by? These recidivists, we often hear from the cops themselves, but I won't even bring him in, they'll let him go again. If it's someone in the police, it's a matter of discussion, and you within the ministry need to see where it appears and there are such examples, or it's someone in court. It would not be good if someone had an HSS or HDZ membership card for this reason not to be punished, regardless of whether he is a minister, a secretary of state or a warrior and a farmer. When we are all punished and we are all respected then we will have the effects of this law that we cannot, as an opposition, say that this law is merely the purpose of filling the state budget but from some arguments it can be said that it is so special that we do not all pay the penalty and that some are able to avoid it. Is it because of the material status, whether it's because of political status. And it's not good to share people by revenue, no segregation is good, we're in HSS against it. It was an idea to introduce an asset censorship, and some European countries introduced it in the payment of fines. We have heard today's argument that what is defeated for Croatia and for all of us that this cannot be introduced for reasons why we cannot quality determine how many people have received it. Well, that's really devastating, especially since some economic analysts say that in Croatia around 30 to 40% of the economy is in the gray zone and that it is about 40 to 50 billion a year. If that's really true and here we have heard it here today that it exists so why didn't you accept the bill to tax illegally acquired property, that the tax administration can, as the HSS has suggested, control everyone and determine how much income it has, how much property it has if there's no evidence to pay that state tax. In this way we would have had quality records but I don't know why you don't want to do it and it can certainly be done in such a way as to ensure and charge the budget so that you can intervene and what is also a prerequisite for safe driving and it is a quality road, quality traffic signalling and quality equipment and paid cop, police officer. Because where does this law usually fall in implementation? On a police officer who has a small salary and who is not motivated and who most often does not have quality equipment. There's been some supply of equipment in recent times, but it's still insufficient because we're still hearing information that police officers don't have enough money to buy fuel and go out on the ground than combine shifts in some police administrations. This must not be so and we must systematically edit it and our policeman must be adequately equipped and well paid to be motivated to implement this law. And by paying the fines on the spot, or within 3 days of this term of office, which are immediately halved, even so, we segregate people because who pays on the spot or within 3 days? One who has money and most of our people or a good part of them over 50 grand works for a minimum wage, the pensioners can't afford it and they certainly won't break traffic regulations because they can't afford it, otherwise they're going back into blockade and bankruptcy. And those who have money care whether it's a thousand or two thousand kunas, he takes it out of his pocket, pays and drives again. It's true, it's facts, and we have to work on that and condemn them and they don't do it anymore. As far as road infrastructure is concerned, a colleague has already mentioned that a large part of freight transport, trucks from Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania are avoiding highways, entering state and county roads, destroying them and thus causing a large number of traffic accidents on those roads. And we think that's where we at HSS are at least asking for a quality analysis to be done, to have talks with neighbouring countries, and to try to get these carriers to drive the highways. You saw that it was only when the child was killed that it was only then that the bypass was built. You see what happens at the border crossings when the holidays are, the old Gradiška and the town of Slavonski Brod are blocked, and in particular it has now escalated these holidays in the eastern part of Slavonia, at the crossings towards Serbia that most of the trucks have gone out on local roads, practically blocked Ilach that people could not get out of their yard and the seed was, they couldn't drive out a tractor with connected machines. And no one helped them. It was only when the cameras came and the TV came that it went to make order there. So you can't let citizens suffer and there must be models to protect citizens in these border areas and protect our roads. And you need to run an analysis of where most of these foreign trucks pass by and then give these county road administrations more resources so that these roads can be restored. Because most of our county road administrations are in financial trouble and we need to know and talk about it and we need to look for solutions to have quality roads. And secondly, I want to point out when it comes to highways, a large part of those highways, although they are one of the better in Europe already has tracks, has damaged bridge crossings and it is being restored. When's it coming up again? Most often during the tourist season in the middle of summer and then there are plugs and most of the traffic accidents. And it can be regulated differently, I know that the problem is public procurement and that it is going on but it needs to start to time before the summer season and before the tourist season because we have a terrible increase in number, the inflow of tourists, we want it to continue and in this way we leave an ugly picture every 20, 30km of highway work in the middle of the tourist season. That way we do no good to ourselves or to our fellow citizens. I'd also mention a problem with old cars here. Well, we'd all like to have new vehicles, but unfortunately, our citizens' standard is not able to buy new vehicles, and then we should work on raising both salaries and pensions, and these days a story has opened about whether people over 65 should go for a mandatory medical check-up for a driver's license. I'd like to hear the answer whether they have to or not. If they have to, according to you, then it's an HSS proposal to be free of charge for our pensioners who have less pensions than 3,000 kuna, and many of them have it. A lot of them have that. I can't live. 80% of these pensioners in Slavonia have declared that they cannot live with their pension, that they must seek help from children or relatives. Then how can he even pay for a doctor's appointment? And most of our citizens because young evicts who are involved in traffic now, 60, 65 years old, say statistics, when it comes to domestic drivers, and it certainly needs to be done to enable these pensioners to have a quality of life and that those who are still able to do so are road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139924	Thank you. We have several replicas, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139925	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vlaović, you mentioned protected persons who are receiving protection... with the police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally know from what I know, the police are doing their job, but the judiciary doesn't do it any further. I think the police are mostly right here. Then you mentioned some unpaid taxes. I agree with you completely, but you were in power, I don't know if you were so loud when you were in power for unpaid taxes that we know almost 40 billion were unpaid. Therefore, they may agree, but individuals, truth, were protected from justice more than the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139926	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139927	Thank you very much. I welcome all police officers all over Croatia wherever you are and congratulate them on their well done work. Most of them. Or the vast majority of them are doing their job properly. However, what you hear from citizens that is happening on the ground, I asked if they know of such phenomena because it's off the record, I don't have official information about it, and I wish it didn't happen. I wish every cop had a good salary and did his job properly and didn't have to go into any other stores. And as for tax policies, I pay all my taxes and expect all our citizens to pay. And that's the policy that the HSS advocates, that we're all equal in front of the state, and not like, let's say here's the last news that the DORH is and I don't know who else was protecting Agrokor that the data on HBOR loans was being kept secret, and now the Constitutional Court has said that, and it has to be published. I'm so happy that they're going to get published to see who's been doing the credit and who hasn't been returning the loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139928	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139929	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vlaović, it is true that, I think, and it is quite clear that there must be penalties for traffic violations, that is something which, that is the language that we people obviously only understand almost and certainly should work with and on prevention. However, when we pass a law that regulates the level of punishment, should we not take care of the wages in the land in which these penalties are prescribed? In Croatia, too, it should be kept in mind whether, whether this law is now designed to measure people who have 20 thousand kunas paid or by the measure of a man who has 4 thousand kunas paid. Or we believe that traffic violations are only done by people with high wages and that a real comparison has been made with other countries in Europe about how big it is the share of that or the amount of that penalty in relation to the amount of the average salary [[Intruder: Thank you.]] or those lower salaries. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague, Alfirev.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139930	Answer, colleague Vlaovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139931	Thank you very much. My colleague, thank you for your replica and here I am, using the opportunity to invite all of us involved in traffic to respect traffic regulations and not to violate them. And if we break them, then we have to be prepared and pay the penalty that's been cut off, which I do when I'm punished, if I'm punished. And it certainly is not the appropriate level of punishment in the Republic of Croatia compared to the average income of citizens. We have already heard from several debates today that we already have the level of penalties that are higher or equal compared to the average income in Croatia than with other European countries, and they have better results of reduced mortality on their roads. So it's not just about punishment, it's about doing exactly what I just said in education, creating consciousness, all of us taking part in traffic, being responsible and certainly having such a transport infrastructure that such deaths don't happen. Here, just railway crossings, many more unmarked, and often accidents happen and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139932	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139933	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Vlaovic, in your individual debate, you criticise a lot, criticise, but you offer nothing concrete. I do not believe that anyone here in the assembly believes that this law has political colour, it is brought solely for the safety of traffic to increase safety, less mortality. Too much defetism, at least I notice with you. So, you're saying they're partially increasing penalties for offenders to fill the state budget. I don't believe it was the intensity of this law. On the other hand, you problem police officers who have too little pay so they don't work the right way or the way they should. And the third thing, if we don't run out of time, you're saying that those people who are bad asset censors shouldn't pay so many offenses or, say, repeat checks because they're of an older age, but that doesn't exculpate them from committing a crime. So, there doesn't have to be a bad property and there's no need to justify it. Because he's in worse shape. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139934	The answer of colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139935	Thank you very much, colleague, here's to your replica, and apparently you didn't listen to me very well, and I had suggestions. And I'll repeat them, in order to reduce the number of accidents on the highways, there's no need or it's not a good idea not to do the repair of the stakes and bridges in the tourist season, to do it sooner or later. They'd cut the plugs, reduce the number of accidents. So she and the question of car tolling, there is often the creation of plugs and accidents, should solve it differently on the highways. So I also mentioned investments in county and local roads that destroy foreign trucks, to increase the revenues of the county road administrations that can restore these roads and quality equipment, so now in response to the replica, I said better quality tag and make safer crossings across railways because there are a lot of our fellow citizens suffering, and everyone has to pay the fine, I said. And those over 65 have to go back to medical school, and they don't have a pension greater than 3,000 kuna to have free of charge, that's what I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139936	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the final word of the esteemed colleague Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139937	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have been discussing for several hours the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, first reading, we have witnessed one full, comprehensive debate with a lot of quality suggestions, remarks, suggestions, but here are the wandering outside the law and topics that have nothing to do with today's agenda, all of which is fine, all of it is an integral part of our work and action. The fact is one thing when we underline that the average of those killed in the EU now per million people is 49 people, while the average in Croatia is 77 people. This is 25% less than in 2010 taken in the EU as a reference year and when essentially our national road safety programme for this 10-year period has been adopted. The goal of this programme was to reduce the number of accidents and deaths to no more than 213 persons, unfortunately, here is Croatia in 4 places by death, not to list which countries are behind us and ahead. In any case, here is the main reason why it is precisely the adoption of such a law to improve the efficiency, prevention, to reduce the number of traffic accidents, and above all, that this law practically sanctions those most severe offenders, the most often relapsing of whom we are all, the whole public bitter when we listen to what it is so far, is that someone has who knows how many violations of the 100ths and so on, without being able to contain it and stop it in traffic. In any case, after these suggestions that we have heard until the second reading, I believe that the MUP will quality-analyze all these proposals and suggestions, and perhaps the level of the penalties proposed because we have heard through the presentations, the degree is very good that is the educational category, it prevents and everything, it would be good to introduce degree in all the provisions, so that in some ways we are educationally acting, here and preventively. Also, this which is not mentioned enough during today's debate, and which reduces the importance of these penalties, is the fact that when paying the fine immediately or within 3 days, it seems to me that not the full amount of punishment is not paid, but 50% of the fine which in some way puts a little different figure and makes it easier for the offenders to submit the infringement itself. The purpose of punishment and high penalties, therefore, is certainly not at least as far as this government is concerned, filling the state budget, but prevention is to reduce, increase security, reduce the number of traffic accidents, and we can talk about prevention for a long and long time about what it is. In the introduction of the presentation, the State Secretary mentioned a package of educational activities that the ministry is taking, which are of course not seen and they are not observed, we all look at penalties and the level of penalties. I think that this story can be even more amortised if, by the second reading, the Ministry worked out, including other state administration bodies, because this national programme is not only in the jurisdiction of the MUP, but here are a series of state bodies that we mentioned today and that, along with these amendments to the law to present us and the package of activities, therefore complete, which is now being implemented as well as a proposal for measures that will be implemented in cooperation with other ministries in future development to reduce the number of these accidents. I'll give an example, here's when the highway went to Split and down the road then we had several months of cases of entry into the forbidden direction, so that people were driving backwards on the highway, so we saw that the one hand with the restraining order was more preventive than any punishment. So here we end up supporting this first reading and I hope until the second reading that everything What was discussed and respected and that we would get a balanced proposal [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which we'll all accept. [[Agreement: I thank my colleague Škorić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139938	On behalf of the promoter, the final word, the Honorable State Secretary Mr. Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you all for your comments, suggestions and suggestions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. I am convinced that they will contribute to making a better and better final bill. Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia maintains that the goal, which is to reduce the number of victims on our roads, can be achieved primarily by prevention, education, awareness raising, but, of course, by those who are not touched by instructions, advice or good example, there must be the possibility of repression, therefore, criminal sanctions. As soon as this law was referred to the procedure, it was clear that someone would first of all reflect on this aspect of it, but sanctions cannot be otherwise in our legal system nor spoken, but only by law, therefore, you cannot express them by any other document, act or act. Croatian police will continue to work with their partners, therefore, associations, schools and various institutions to raise awareness, but for those hard-core, it is a very small number of people who do not respect regulations and endanger people's lives and health, and here we see, therefore, that only last year 317 people have lost their lives on our roads and multiple numbers have been seriously injured without sanctions and certain repression is clearly not possible. For such persons then I'll have to say here, then we, then no, we can't watch what the level of sanctions is and whether that punishment is too great for him. Whoever's going through the red conscious, who's driving, who doesn't have a driver's license, who's driving drunk and all the other cases I've listed, they're potential murderers on the road, and I think Mr. Mateo said that, so I won't repeat it, but it's like someone's shooting at an automatic rifle, it's so dangerous, so big if they drive with a few alcohol spills in their blood. This is a complex area, you pointed out, a lot of you, there is a need for cooperation of different resors, what is visible at first sight, of course, traffic-related resistors, concessionaires or owners of our roads from Croatian highways, Croatian roads, county road administrations and local self-government, but also through the judiciary when we talk about sanctions, through finance, so when we talk about encouraging new and better cars and of course the highest public, both the media and various institutions. Of course, more police officers and traffic patrols on the road are helping and we are aware and need some of the measures being implemented at the MUP to go along with that, that as many police officers of any kind, therefore, to be out, on the ground, in this case on the roads. Also some new technical, technologically advanced can and will raise traffic safety on roads, it is of course partly dependent on financial resources, but the goal of the government and the MUP is therefore to cover a large part of our roads with cameras, especially highways, and we will do so with Croatian highways in the near future. For those who have criticised, there is always room for criticism, however, I assure you that it is not a MUP's position and that it is not a criterion of the success of our individual police stations or administrations as many as they have filed infractions or infractions, but rather the criterion of some preventive activities, and the ultimate criterion of success is that the fewer people killed on our roads. Those who try to just hair their work, so, as was said here through some, behind the bus or behind the bushes or through some so-called. Waiters, this is not a way of working the MUP and our administrations and stations and such will not be able to do so any further, but should therefore be punished only by hard-core, therefore, primarily and therefore, the strictest of those hard-core, resilient law-makers and those who have the most serious consequences. That success may be, but over the longer term, these examples that stood out here, for example, using helmets for motorcycles, but here, I'm going to correct some who spoke, the penalty is currently 1,000,00 kn, so it's not 300 or 500 as many as they say, so when it's up, it increases the use of a helmet in a motorcycle and it's now over 90%. As some have said, here I think the last one was saying, there's a respected representative of Misic, and a cell phone, excuse me, and a safety belt also, now we have 61% and we're not satisfied with that, we can't be satisfied, but compared to 10, 15 years ago, it's a very big progress, I don't have the data here now, but it's certainly 2 or 3 times better and greater use of the safety belt. With a cell phone, I guess that's a newer period, there's an absolute number of those who use too high, and that's why there's a slightly larger range of new penalties, so it practically jumps from 500 to up to 1.500,00 kn. Here are, that's what we have now noticed in this debate, certainly, every comment and suggestion will be carefully considered and we will try to install it in the final text of the Road Safety Act proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139940	I thank the Secretary of State. We have replicas, Your Honor. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, Mr. Katić, you said that the concessionaries needed to arrange for a road regime on these highways, etc., in that sense it was going, given that you said on the board and that the concessionaries were responsible for this signalling vertically on the roads. However, in my opinion, I don't know where it is, in which law it is said, but if so, I think it's the wrong thing to do. The state must determine maximum levels allowed on roads, not some concessionaire this or that or the local administration. Therefore, for certain categories of roads, there must be a standard that will be unique for the whole country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139942	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. Would you like to respond to the Secretary of State? No, I don't. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139943	Thank you very much. So I'm going to use the replica just to supplement two more things that I haven't been able to say, one about the instructor to do, so the job of educating young drivers is that we got here from car schools such an observation, it's about deficiting personnel, and there's no point in having people who finished high school and got that calling to wait, so, 24 years old, I think that deadline should have been reduced, so if someone finished at 18 years old. and it gained, I mean from the 21st, at 22nd, that it would be perfectly normal to allow him to do so, and some who later requalify that period to last 2-3 years, it's one of the things and the other is related to the ability to drive, if it is possible to bind it to the tax administration according to the amount of income achieved, it would be much fairer and fairer because it's much easier for a parliamentary representative than a person who works... /Intruder: Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139944	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139945	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 616. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the vote 81 ZA, 39 abstentions, has come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139946	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, first reading, P.Z. No. 619 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would like to ask the representative of the honourable Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Zarko Katic, to give us an additional explanation of the proposal for this law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors, ma'am. and gentlemen MPs, the Law on Police Affairs and Powers was adopted in 2009 and amended and updated in 2014. Unlike the Police Act that we had here two weeks ago on the agenda and which regulates the organisation and structure of the police, this law regulates police affairs, the law in Article. 3. defines a total of 13 fundamentals, I would say, police affairs, a group of police operations, and this law also regulates the way in which police powers are performed and their jobs in art. A total of 24 different powers are prescribed. Often these are very complex powers which can also be affected by individual rights and freedoms of a citizen or individual. The need to amend and supplement this law shall be reflected primarily in the need to bring it in line with the amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act which entered into force in 2017 and, where necessary, clearer norms of certain police powers which have been established in practice that there are ambiguities in application, and because of the introduction of new normative solutions governing police conduct and harmonizes with achievements in other professions or sciences or the removal of legal gaps. In view of the fact that the Criminal Procedure Act significantly amended the police's conduct during the reconnaissance of criminal offences by means of several European directives, these are the Directives on the Protection of Victims of Crimes, the Directive, then, on the right to access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the procedure on the basis of a European arrest warrant and as the last directive on the freezing and confiscation of property benefit cases achieved by criminal acts, that is, all together, and the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and a significant impact on certain police powers, and there is a need for their harmonisation in this law. More significant changes, i.e. the newspaper proposed by the bill, are the regulation of a lower personal police calling of a police officer who conducts interrogations of defendants or witnesses, therefore, he is proposed to be at least a police sergeant, that is, the initial calling of a person with a higher volume, or can be obtained by a person with a middle alert after a certain number of years of service and advancement, of course, by the law in force, by a police inspector with at least 5 years. Experience. This would increase the number of investigators, and thus the dynamics and efficiency of criminal research. In addition, many smaller police stations did not have enough or even some few police officers in calling it, so here is the proposal to amend this provision in this sense. In addition, appropriate data storage deadlines are prescribed for persons suspected of having committed an offence which raises the level of protection of personal data of persons suspected of committing an offence, then provides for the possibility as an exception to verifying the identity of persons by means of an insight into the information system of the MUP. Given that the technical means available to the police on the ground are possible to gain insight into the information system and the photograph and personal data of the person whose identity is being verified, we believe that this provision, or the amended provision, will facilitate and speed up police conduct. Then, more clearly, the conditions under which a person suspected of committing an offence is determined by identity. An important legal solution is defined only as the perpetrator of a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty. In view of the fact that certain situations laid down in the Criminal Code, the perpetrator of the offence may be deprived of liberty, the need to identify the identity of the person to whom such a measure is applied is also indicated. Furthermore, the conditions under which the police as a means of stopping the vehicle may be allowed to use an official and other vehicle since it has been observed in practice that the use of the vehicle's coercion device is not always possible or always does not guarantee success, and then the possibility of use and the official vehicle is prescribed, so if it is not possible with a special stop device, so on, so on. the rope or even use of a foreign vehicle, under certain conditions and, of course, the right to compensation for damages if it occurs. According to one of the new developments in this law, it is possible to use the means of coercion or other means to interfere with the aircraft or other remote control mobile device or device with a predetermined direction of movement. If, in another way, it is not possible to prevent a criminal offence or eliminate a threat. The current law does not provide for police handling of remote control mobile devices. It is primarily because such devices did not appear in their daily lives at the time of the construction and entry into force of this applicable law. As they are very common today and may appear as a means of jeopardising the safety of criminal offences or offences, the addition of the law and that meaning has been proposed. Furthermore, the bill wants to make the use of firearms more clear. In particular, it is arranged, regulated, which is not considered to be the use of firearms. For example. Fire shots to warn or seek help. And here, finally, by draft law, is the development of a more detailed and existing provision of art. 98. the applicable law governing the protection of a police officer after the use of coercion funds, in particular from the point of view of excluding the illegality of legally used means of coercion. The purpose of this provision is, in addition to the protection of a police officer and a very clear legal definition of the consequences and medical and psychological assistance to a police officer, if necessary. The other proposed amendments and additions relate to a more precise terminology of certain provisions, in order to eliminate the concerns observed in practice. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139948	I thank the Secretary of State. We have replicas. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139949	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, therefore, reading this bill now through this first reading, then I saw in the section relating to e-Consultation, commentary and remarks by the Advocate General concerning the special training of police officers regarding the handling of persons with mental disorders. I think that, given my experience and knowledge of the problem of people with mental disorders, I think that, until the second reading, so through this first reading and later on, we should respect it, and you should respect the comments of the Attorney General in this very sense that through the law, it is a visible obligation to train at least part of the police officers when it comes to the treatment of persons with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139950	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139951	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respecting the fact that police conduct in certain cases may cause some subjective discomfort in the part of the citizens who are in the process and in order to avoid such situations in the future, the MUP has, in addition to supplementing the Law on Police Authorities and Jobs, announced an amendment to one of the regulations, which is the Regulation on how police officers are handled and as far as I know, it is missed to be arranged in 2010 and 2015, so I am curious whether it is correct to amend that rule, which is the information available to us on the sides of the MUP, so we are interested in what stage it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139952	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139953	The last alignment of this Regulation was in 2015, and now that they are in the process of both this law and the Police Act, they will comply with the amendments to those two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139954	Thank you for your response. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague, Prof. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139955	My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, and as we have heard he is primarily in the assembly today, because of the harmonisation of the laws with amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedures, whose provisions came into force in 2017, so it was necessary to standardise certain powers. Since it's actually a two-law alignment, I don't think there's basically any relevant objections that I think can be made to this law. Let us perhaps just have some comments with some of these provisions. As already stated in the explanation of the situation in certain particularly small stations and the lack of people, so, who are there experts, who are there police officers who are in charge there, are or are suggested that a police officer at least with, in the personal police service, a police sergeant can perform the duties of investigators. This, however, is on the one hand a reduction in the level of professional training provided for by the existing law, but since this is not a general trend, it is seen in a false provision that, in the cases of the use of police powers against minors, underage persons in matters of health protection of development, education, etc., additional training is required or it is said that these police officers must be further educated to work with young people is clearly seen to take care of the relevant level or necessary level of knowledge, experience in order to be able to carry out these police work. However, here you might say one warning, which is that these people who will be educated for, to work with a youth should still be licensed for these jobs from a competent or adequate or relevant educational and scientific institution so that they can use that licence even after work, the termination of police work. So that's one suggestion that should be taken care of. Whether she's going to get rid of the rules by some or by law is the thing on the Proposer. The other one that seems rather rational and comprehensible to me is that this large number of violations, it is said, annually about a million such violations are registered in the MUP, there must be a provision when those violations are deleted. So the proposal also seems rational to me that those who are infraction proceedings for which no proceedings have been initiated are kept for up to 4 years or after 4 years, and for those infringements that have been initiated, and are not completed after 10 years, that the same can be automatically deleted. I think it's the same rational provision. What doesn't have to be clear to us or laymen, and unfortunately, the fact is that the existing law does not provide for a person's identity to be verified by an information system. It's by the logic of things should be normal, but the previous laws have been smoked, the previous laws so that it's being introduced here and it seems unfortunately to me again that it's one proof that we want to norm or if you want to persecute everything by law that would otherwise be common sense to be, to be done. It is also necessary to accept this temporary confiscation of the case and the likelihood that a criminal offence has been committed in a private, private lawsuit because I assume that in certain situations it is not possible to know whether it will be under official duty or private suit and it should also be accepted. In particular, it is determined that one who works on a polygraph should be a police officer of a polygraph, so I think that's something that shouldn't be controversial. What is quite frankly surprising in some way is why it should be specifically stated in the law, when it should be only the logic of things, it is the use of official vehicles to force the vehicle to stop if it is not possible in some other way. Although it seems to me that here too it was necessary to see that not only those vehicles are predicted but all other means available to block traffic in that case. It's a clear thing that sometimes it can cause certain problems if in this case it needs to compensate for the damage that will be caused by the funds being used, but unfortunately, we expect to have more and more of these cases, so one, one supplement should also be foreseen. What is also logical in itself, and is now being fixed in these legal proposals, by provisions, is that the use of weapons or firearms in terms, with the aim of firing shots to warn or seek help not to consider the use of firearms in each other's sense. Now, we have something that seems to me one newspaper and yet, I think this law must have, but it's going to be insufficient and it's going to take a special law to pass on it, and that's this provision on handling remote control devices, now that's going to describe it, what I'm going to say to the colloquial drones. This is where the use of means of coercion is used. The fact is that today these remote control devices or those drones are in use today in a series of occupations, from what you want from filming weddings to... And in doing their jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the problem is that their abuse will be possible, we will be able to witness their abuse in a number of specific places and therefore, it should already be predetermined to their use that is not possible I do not know, in the area of airports or some of these objects, because, whether with intention or without intent, it can endanger the lives of individuals, i.e. traffic, etc. On the other hand, if we do not have ways to prevent not only from police but also from other factors, this use may also have its own abuse of privacy. I know that, say, in Canada, if your drone comes to your private property, you can take it down yourself without any additional... I am not advocating any solution here, but I am simply saying that this is a very sensitive, very ticky area, there will be possibilities of abuse, that I am now not advocacy here, from terrorist actions that you can plan, and that whoever is using these drones is not at all present because it will time them to do their job, he will already be outside the borders of Croatia, or I don't know where, therefore, it is something that should be taken into account and I think it would be good for the ministry to initiate, and the government to pass a special law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also a provision here that a police officer of a foreign country or an international body may carry out certain police work in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with international rules or on the basis of written approval by the Minister. I think it is necessary to emphasize here and stick to the principle that it must be on the principle of reciprocity. And that the assumption that there is an agreed co-operation, bilateral cooperation between these countries because it is obvious that Croatian police officers in these countries should or should act and act on this basis, so that it is necessary to consider whether it is necessary to enter in that provision that this cooperation is based on ratified agreements between the Republic of Croatia and third countries. It seems to me something that should be considered. HDZ will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139956	Thank you, dear fellow professor. Tudjman. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I must say in the beginning, that we liberals, whenever we talk about increasing or supplementing the powers of the police, immediately blow up all four of us and our hair is in the air. Namely, the premise from which we leave is the premise of a separate civil society and a state where the state is tasked as a quiet civil contract, primarily to protect the safety of its citizens and then the repressive apparatus at its disposal. Police are one of them, perhaps even most important and extremely important in a free civil democratic society to constantly build a picture of the police as a security guard, not as a law enforcement body, organs of force, organs of intimidation. It's not easy. Police work is one of the hardest jobs you can possibly imagine. The fact that we police are experiencing through American movies is another pair of sleeves, but it has nothing to do with reality. Reality is brutal. The reality, therefore, is the reality in which the police are working is the daily exposure to the victims, inadequate equipment, sometimes intricacies and unpreparedness, insufficient support, insufficient logistics, so if you want enough psychosocial support, all of these are our realities and we need to be aware, we are building the police system first of all, as a relapse of a repressive apparatus that came out of our war history. But it's been a while. Remember, we recently had to fire people from the police, so they were more than needed and able to finance, today we are in a position to ask God to report to the police because there is a lack of personnel and we are putting down more and more criteria for who can do and what police work and what powers he has, to have. It's not an attractive job, it's not an art job, working in the police doesn't mean working in the state service. So every day, you expose yourself to everything I said, the unfavourable conditions in which you work on the one hand, on the other hand, the deaths, on the third hand, to the incredible political and security culture that we have and we build in our society. Our society is a society of thugs, a society that potentials public debates, which fails family violence, violence in general, verbal violence, from this home and beyond. See what the current watches in the Croatian Parliament look like, there are no important things to talk about, there is not a suggestion of criticism, but of enmity. From here, the messages of Malta are sent not that we should fight over certain ideas, not necessary. And we contribute to the construction of that non-culture in which when a police officer joins a citizen, he immediately finds himself at risk. We have to wonder why that is? Everything we do to build a different picture of the police. We have to be happy and happy when we see a cop on the road because it's a guarantee of our safety. So we have to be positive about it, not negatively. And what happens to us? There's something quite the opposite happening to us. As far as we liberals are concerned, the key question is whether increasing powers is how existing powers are used? We see from the plane, I'd say, that for the last two or three years, the civilian surveillance of the work of the police, we're aware of that. We had to change the law recently, we didn't set up in every police department of the Civil Watch Council. Why? Because we designed the whole system so it doesn't work. We have failed to find 100 volunteers who, out of their deepest respect and altruism, will be volunteers in one system and for free, will monitor such an important thing as how the police are doing their job, whether they exceed their duties, their powers or act according to complaints. So we're what now? Now we've made one body for the entire Republic, if we think it's going to be functionally not, but in a year, two of us will have to deal with this issue again. But the fact that there is no civil or civilian surveillance is what it feels like. By lowering the criteria among other things and by doing police work, we are becoming more and more in a position to every little step out, some case in public brutally overstepping power. Here's what I'm going to say is only four final examples that have really led the police into a very awkward situation. 24.7. Last year, police enter the Fast Food restaurant in Zadar because of loud music and the obvious of all guests physically rips off a man who works at the bar, throws him on the floor, binds him and drives him to a police station. Then later he comes for his colleague who protested and pushed with them and arrested her for loud music. And every summer we testify, showing the muscles when at midnight or at 1:00 a whole army of special police crashes into some catering facility. We're doing crazy things. In front of thousands of guests, we're closing the bars for this or that reason. Why aren't you doing it in the morning? Why don't you do it this afternoon when the place opens? Why don't you go discreetly into it and shut it down at the same time and disable its work? Why does it have to come at a time when there's a thousand people on the terraces? What's that for, whose interest is it, who shows the muscles? So if it's tax or some other administration that's looking for your intervention more stupid, so tell me don't do crazy. A month ago at the Zagreb club of 25 special police officers came under suspicion of a crime. Turns out not that no crime was committed, but that out of the 8 offences recorded, five of them were committed by police intervention. Who needs that? There's a club where 100 people intervene with 25 special forces. What's that? If there's any doubt that books are run badly, it's not a matter of midnight, it's a matter of 1 hour a day. Is there any doubt that some guests inside have intoxicating assets, so that's not a matter of midnight, it's not a question of 25 special forces. It can make five uniformed police officers very discreet. He fights on the road because someone's protesting, breaking into the bathroom, so he's suspected of throwing something in the toilet, beating it out and pulling out his pants, I guess. Is that behavior? Well, we can't do that. This month, a citizen who raises his hand and says you've been through a red or you've committed some kind of traffic violation, two police officers in a civilian walk out and beat everyone, tie, throw him on the road, take him to a police station. What's that, who needs it? Well, cops are people, too, and they do miss. I see them turning every day without giving a blinker. Every day I see them parked in places where they're not allowed. But when they're warned, it's not anti-state action, so it's not terrorism for God's sake. You can say a nice word sorry, we're doing a very important thing, we couldn't do anything else, we had to get as close as possible to do our police duty. And not immediately degenecizes the citizens on whom he asks why you broke this traffic code. There is no need for that 99% of all police officers in the Republic of Croatia to perform their tasks phenomenally, they are paid, we know that their salary is ridiculous. In every way possible, we must help them to perform their duties in the best possible conditions. But those who are commanders, those who order must be aware of what is done and how is done. No bar closing at midnight or 1 a.m., it's unnecessary, close the place at 1 p.m. No circus, no drama, no foreign guests. And go raiding bars with 25, with 25 special forces, saying they're being asked for tax because we doubt the wrong books. So what does 25 special forces have to do with business books? Well, three's enough to stop the boss from destroying the evidence. So we need to be aware that the floor when in some situations someone makes bad decisions. I also mention here a case that took place in January 2018 to the death of a young Roma man in Međimurje. They beat him three times, they broke his liver, they barely saved his life, the cop was so rude that the next day he came to the hospital to get him and bribe him so he wouldn't accidentally file a crime, the DORH had those cops, the two of them, filed criminal charges. So there's a system in both the police themselves and outside of it that sanctions such things, but it can't happen to them. As possible, as possible, and the DORH says it was made out of hate, so it's a hate crime of pure racism. Someone was led by a fascist idea that he had to kill Roma and that's what happened. And we have to do everything we can to get that weenie out of the grain, to save the honorable police first of all from people like that who don't know their jobs or try to get away from the police so that they can live their savagery and make it possible for those who do their job to do it the best possible way. As far as the text of this amendment and supplementation is concerned, I only have one question for you. In Article 8, you explain the length of the length of storage of this data, which means the syntagma in relation to the persons suspected of committing an offence, the infringement procedure has not been initiated for 4 years from the date of the infringement. So is it possible for you to keep records of the persons you suspect committed a crime, and you have not filed a report for 4 years, from where you are entitled, if you have evidence, it is your duty to file an immediate criminal report. What's he doing four years of this suspecting a misdemeanor? As far as this other person is concerned, if someone committed a crime, if it was reported, it should be kept as long as possible and these 10 seem too short. Especially when we know of cases of people who have suffered 40 or 50 serious traffic accidents and have not been found out about them until someone has been killed in a new car accident. And another suggestion in Article 21 in Croatian is that there is no word of a hit, the word "shot" goes off into the generative of a shot because it is lost, and in the plural appears so-called invisible, non-existent and shots. So here's what happens if it's not just a problem. Thank you very much. I'm obliged to say as far as the GLAS Club and HSU are concerned, we'll be held back in our first reading to see what you'll do for the second.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139958	Thank you. We move on to the next debate on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, respected colleague Ranko Ostojic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139959	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs of this Law on Police Affairs and Powers, or its amendments, are provided for several investigators, reducing the possibility of antiquity, allowing citizens to verify their identity without any insight into their ID card, these are some of the main items that the media's instructions regarding the preparation of this legal solution. What is also mentioned, which is that the police will have the authority to remove the drone, that in the future they will be able to enter your home in cases where there is such an order or if, on the basis of a tip from the neighbors, there is doubt that someone who lives there has died and among the news, is also able to seize a vehicle if the police estimate that in an emergency situation, by pursuing what kind of robber they necessarily create an emergency blockade. Also, to change the way in which the suspect is being examined in order to comply with the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and that classical informative conversations actually went down in history. Now these very facts that are presented here, I'm going to try on concrete examples to point out actually that part of why I believe there's still the possibility that since this is the first reading in the second, until the second reading of things repairs and changes. That's the direction I want to talk to you about. If you take for example. The case of Đurjica Klancir, in which it was actually the occasion for a meeting at the Police Directorate's initiative of the Minister of the Interior to get through the information system, here we heard that it was reportedly missed in 2010, 2015, then I would only quote the response provided by the Ministry of the Interior on 15 March 2019 which said that in this case it was the submitted request by the authority of the natural person who asked for the information initiating the private suit, which resulted in the applicant not being able to exercise the right of the party otherwise nor to take action to collect data on the person who intends to file a private suit. Similarly, the documentation received could not clearly identify which particular person was involved because there are several persons with such a combination of names and last names, while the only reliable information was that of the employee of the journalist portal Net.hr. I would remind you that yesterday we heard from the Foreign Minister's current watch that Mrs. Klancir did not actually complain about the police's actions. This is absolutely not true, and all those who have followed the case know that it has been shocked by such behaviour and police behaviour, and what I want to quote from this letter further, says that we point out that the establishment units of this ministry receive a large number of requests for the delivery of identity, residence and residence data from persons and according to the collected data from police administrations for the period 2012 to 2018, an average of more than 10,000 requests from lawyers or authorities of legal and physical persons to whom data are to be supplied from the Ministry and, where appropriate, if necessary, by means of a field check. From these two answers it is perfectly clear that it is not true that so far it was not the practice or the most normal way to enter the information system of the MUP and to determine there what you were actually looking for. She was just looking for an address. And that's one example of how we actually come up with a situation where unfortunately the public has to react, etc. in this situation where there is a serious violation of the law. Why it is important for police officers to be primarily protected by the law on their conduct, so that they do not be held accountable for something that is not actually regulated. This Regulation shall enter The law on police affairs and powers, I must say, does not change him by this solution which is before us, so he is not touched. On the basis of the request, it may be done only in the case of offences prosecuted under official duty. So it's perfectly clear here that in the case of Gjurjice Klancir and there are 10 cases when it can be done. There is nowhere in this situation where there was a possibility of field check, but since we live in a country where the mayor of a county, of course HDZ, can ask the police or friends for such a combination and that a journalist who was able to identify, her address, is known as a public person in the information system itself. Both grief and one other thing, which is that this is perfectly detailed in Article 63. The law on police powers, I will only quote the following, which is, the police officer will not act, so he will not determine the identity of the perpetrator for a crime against honor and reputation, nor will he receive criminal charges. Therefore, it is precisely stated that in this case when it comes to insults, slanders and disgrace, and in this new law you have the same thing when it comes to confiscation of cases in the same case, a police officer must not act. Here, when you look at it, you actually get the situation that there are certain people who have the right to ask the police to break the law, to do something that can't be done and to come up with a situation that nobody is responsible for, and then to charge the alleged failure of some kind of legal solution. And I'm just going to say in this particular case it wasn't any identity check, it was her address. And this job here is obviously being undermined by identity checks, I'm not going to talk about it, so the tactics of acting is something that in the simplest and best possible way to use police authority relatively purpose, and the first thing they were said to do was go to the field because they couldn't find it in the information system, and then it turns out they weren't allowed to look in the information system, so they went to the field. These are things that tell you about how the situation happens when we have things undefined, and in this particular case it was perfectly defined and written in the law and what is most important remains in the legal solution and does absolutely nothing change. Therefore, this is just one of the concrete examples that I want to specify which question and supervision is really needed as police, and it is even worse when you try to bring it down to alleged indetermination in legal solutions that are very precise and clear when it can be reached for such authority or not. As for the other points in the law itself, then I would like to note that here there will be certain joys around Article 4, that it is that practice has shown that the conditions of police calling to be met by police investigators for carrying out evidence actions are reduced and for the first time in history I see here that, in accordance with the Regulation on conditions for obtaining police calls, we have the basis for amending the law. So the sublegal act begins to be the basis for amending the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, and it will likely be the joy of those who, with a lower criterion, need to do very serious work, which is defined by the amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which is that the police will no longer be able to call on the suspect to collect information but can call on him exclusively according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. I think it's bad, that it's not good and that such variants I'll remind you that the amendments to the law at the time were based on the amendments to the Penal Code by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia insisted that investigators be specifically educated that they can carry out very serious actions, and this downgrade to the level of police sergeant and that we'll get a larger number of officers who will be able to do this, just contribute to having, of course, a larger number of investigators, exactly, but whether it's going to be quality work, that's a big question. So I'm not inclined to be the basis for amending the law, and the question of a police sergeant and what we had before was the urgency that the best police, best police officers who had a police calling, which ensures that the carrying out of the evidence shop was done properly, I think it's very important and it's not good that such a criterion goes down. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 9. I would also like to emphasise, I will not look back at all these articles now because I will not have enough time, the proposed amendment of the article. 31, strengthening the protection of personal data, that's all true, but I'd like to ask one question about this. We had a camera pilot project in the MUP that had police officers to protect them, to protect them, because when they act, when they have to use force or in any way to protect them. It's gone. So, this pilot project was strangled, disappeared, no longer exists, and we actually came to a situation that then, of course certain cases become actually subject to serious suspicion, as was the case with a cyclist, who eventually got satisfaction by starting the procedure unfortunately only when the public spoke. As before, we have been in a situation where, first of all, we come to a variant where the public is a better protector than I am a law to police officers. In accordance with Article 21(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In the 59th where the obligation to confiscate the case is prescribed, here, that is the example to which I say that this authority, so, except in cases of insult and slander, will be applied, here, that is another proof that in this article there is a neat question about Mrs. Klancir. On the matter of conduct and everything else, I would just say that it is necessary to consider that police officers, as well as people who, for example, work specifically here in the Parliament, say that I am now making an incident and that the chairman is making a decision that needs to be thrown out, is not regulated by law. I asked the president of HS, among other things, to determine that, not to defend someone, a representative or a representative, but because it must also be regulated. I'm just saying this as an example that something that needs to be done to protect people who have to use force sometimes, that they have to be protected by precisely prescribed legal solutions. Let's say, the elements of a criminal act of conduct, which we don't normally pay attention to, but you see, when it is said in the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act that no more police officers will be able to suspect, of course, will have to act in accordance with the law, there is a problem, that there are again double criteria depending on who it is because of the answers I received from the MUP at Mrs. Minister, which is where the rule of security and trust is violated, there are no such provisions for it. We don't talk to her about the circumstances, we have a conscious conversation with the eyewitness, there is, of course, a different situation, so we don't have the same treatment for Mrs. Because she's a minister, and compared to other citizens, that would be very different. What I can claim, which is that the eyewitnesses led the deputy municipal state attorney in Vinkovci, who, among other things, is to this day, which are months ago, has not made a decision whether anyone is a suspect or not. This does not mean that someone is guilty, but we have one participant in the accident, we have a TTO situation or a TTO suspicion, and then it should be done in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, and not in the variant to charge the penalty for an invalid permit, or for a permit that expired the period of time and hence, it actually violates the question of security and trust. As for the SDP Club and our actions, of course we will wait for any changes, changes that have been announced in some way and which are likely to be in this debate. If that happens, we will be able to support the law, and until then, we will be abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139960	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ostojić. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Djujic is not present. Dear colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed representatives of the MUP. Here's today all day on the subject of your district, and I'm sure those few citizens who are looking at this are all agreeing that police powers should be in accordance with the law, and that no matter what police officers sometimes do themselves, they should be equal before the law. And I think we all agree on that. However, this law primarily has a purpose in 3 or 4 useful things. One is, I'd point out, perhaps the most important, is the reduction of the possibilities of old age. And that in other words means that the offender will now find it more difficult to use those limitation deadlines, and that makes me very happy because the records on them will be better kept, although here I feel that the public needs to further explain what this means especially when it comes to family abusers and especially when it comes to this previous road safety law that we have talked about. Which means 4 years, which means 10 years, if the case is launched, I really think it's still necessary to communicate further. Also, these classic informative conversations with the suspect mentioned in the future must be exclusively accompanied by lawyers, we often watch it in Hollywood movies, as you look in the United States, and we will finally get in line thanks to this European directive in a way that completely changes the interrogation of suspects. Let's say, if during the citizens' talks, during police talks at one point, that citizen becomes a suspect, the conversation must be interrupted and that citizen, or that person must be warned by a police officer that he now has the right to an attorney, and that conversation should not continue without a lawyer's escort. I believe that this is one step ahead and to protect the rights of citizens, and also to protect freedom, and also to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, and I think it is certainly useful. It's not the exact fact that we heard the same thing somewhere in public space, at least I heard it, that the citizens in the future won't have to have their ID card before so-called. To legitimize, that word remains from the past system, but it is very familiar to us and we often use it today, it is already a violation, so it is not true. Now only the advantage of the information system that has, unfortunately, not been used so far will be used. And what I believe is that further public communication is also needed, and I appeal to the representatives of the MUP, especially the secretary of state, to clarify that part of the child's abduction, i.e. a minor, after 23 hours on the street without the escort of a minor. I personally had a few questions about it and I have to admit that I can't further explain because first I need someone to explain to me what it means, how far away from home, which means a child without an escort of a minor after 23 hours on the street. Here, I ask that it be further explained because I think it interests our citizens in every way. As for this lower calling of a police officer and prescribing about who conducts the procedure, I look at it in a practical sense, of course it can be asked a question of quality now, but if we have so far had police stations where no quality research can be done at all or the work could not be done because they simply did not have employees prescribed under the law. Then instead of a police inspector, lowering to police sergeant level may not be such a dramatic lower level, but it is simply here, for practical purposes, but of course remains a legitimate question of quality, whether this police sergeant will conduct a quality examination or whether being a police inspector guarantees him that he will conduct a more quality examination. Perhaps this without anyone being offended and being taken subjectively and not necessarily necessary, may depend on years of guards in the police, on practice, on the experience of that person, etc. I think it is good that the conditions for identifying identity are more clearly prescribed, and I think that these mobile devices, i.e. drones that were not in the law so far, I will agree with the previous speakers, should be further defined, in which way we have good examples of how they did, let's say, how NATO does or some military association where it is forbidden to record above military, military facilities, police, customs, etc., except from authorised persons, or from those institutions that are responsible for that location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139962	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139963	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Not to say it again, I'll sum it up in the shortest lines. I will underline some important things when we talk about the additions and amendments to this law, then I note that the Law on Police Affairs has not often been amended, that it was made in 2009, that it had one amendment in July 2014 and as such confirms that it has been fairly well implemented and that there have been no excessive demands and objections to its implementation. Now here's the paper, so, proportionate and technological development and everything, supplemental art. 3a, therefore, related to the introduction of audio and video footage of the activities of police officers, therefore, what is important is that this relationship is governed more closely by the footage that the police have the right to use in the performance of their police affairs and the way in which these public recordings can be used exclusively by the director or the person who has the authority to inform the public and conduct police affairs, whereby the same measures are prescribed for the protection of persons, of all persons, therefore, on video, including their appearance, and all together, are practically for the purpose of protecting the personal data of citizens. I would not specifically mention these other provisions except the amendment and additions of Article 31, so regarding the verification of the identity of persons, therefore, the regular methods of verifying identity were prescribed in Article 1 of the ID card or other public ID card with a photo, the exception was St. 2 where it was proposed in addition to the existing opportunities to take statements of persons whose identity has been verified, so allowing identity checks to be verified by means of an insight into the Ministry’s information system. I believe that this is important because, in addition to the 10 reasons so far, the identity of the person has been checked, there has been one deficiency here because it is certain that the Ministry's information system in one important way makes it possible for the identity of the person to be checked, and thus it has accelerated the procedure itself in certain cases and is correcting the shortcomings, so it is problemed here and in the case, as counterpart Ostojica Klancir mentioned by Mrs. Djurdzica Klancir, where, by the evidence we have received under the law and there has been no shortcomings, it is about the lady called Đurđica Klancir, but Đurđica Klancir Ladić, and it has caused difficulties and problems in that. And I also remind you that this case is unnecessaryly overly politicised because it is a former SDP spokesman and therefore understandably the reason why this issue is put into the public focus entirely wrong. Therefore, we all have a responsibility to our own name and name, so it is in that sense, and when we introduce ourselves in public, it presents itself with its full name and last name rather than half-name and to lead the ministry astray. I would also mention Article 17 concerning the amendment of Article 74(2) and (4) to the entry into a foreign home and the review thereof. We all know that the House is a constitutional category that we are all the most sensitive to both privacy and protection. I think it is good to practically improve the description of the possibility of entering another person's home, so so far it has been without a written order, so in what way it is possible to enter into the search for the householder or the tenant if it is needed first because of calls for help. This is either positive because of a death report, so the tenants have been reporting and removing serious life, health, property of a larger scale, but here the fourth item would look back on it, it has been for the execution of a warrant. Now the word and commands, commands of a practically superior police commander, I feel that it may need to be explained a little bit by what is meant by that order so that no broad and undefined notion of who is giving the order is left out, what cases could this be, because here I am merely saying for one reason not to speculate on the possible restriction and entry, the intrusion of human rights. So I think with this notion of orders, maybe something else should be done by the second reading. In any case, I believe that this bill will address these concerns and dilemmas and that it will facilitate the work of police officers in determining the identity of the person and facilitate their conduct and in that sense I find it absolutely acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139964	Thank you. We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139965	Dear colleague Škorić, I think I have very neatly explained why I think the law has been broken in the case of Đurjica Klancir. Even so, I didn't mention that name or name or what was in the report here because the important thing would be that we know how many field checks on those other addresses were made, how many of those other people existed. But I've led you to the correct legal provisions that it shouldn't have happened at all. So in the case of a crime of honor and reputation, it was not possible to determine at all the identity, or identity checks, of what the police officers on the application did.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139966	Thank you, colleague Škorić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139967	Thank you very much. Well, I think we're all equal in this country, and we all have the same responsibility under the law. So if there was no other possibility of identifying the identity and there was no reason for the wrong personal data of the person who partly presented himself with his name, then the police should investigate and allow them to come to the identity of the person. And I think here are these changes that will regulate it. In any case, according to the report we have, therefore, the introduction of the report also states that the identity of Djurdice Klancir has been investigated and that Đurdzica Klancir Ladišic's identity has been established, and that is why there is no need to politicise this issue, but should be put into order of regular police treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139968	Thank you, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139969	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm about to, I didn't intend to explain it further, but I think it's important that I just point out the following. When something precise is prescribed by law, there's no problem for police officers. That when they don't act according to the law, then, of course, you have to answer. In this particular case, it was about an identity check, and it wasn't true, but it was about checking the address, under the so-called. I.D. and need to distinguish identity identification and identity check. Police officers Article 30, which remains unchanged, writes in which cases this can be done. It lists the exact points by which this can be done and go for field check. In the matter of honor and respect, there is no such thing. And police officers got a warrant to do something like that. We can talk about it as much as we want, whether it had two last names, it wasn't, anyway we could find out how many field checks and so on, but it should be perfectly clear and precise they shouldn't have gone into that kind of check based on a private lawsuit, regardless of what it was about the HDZ mayor and the possible knowledge of the people of the police administration in Zagreb, it's inadmissible, that's what I wanted to talk about, that's why, I'm not saying now to stick it to someone's nose, but it's true that police officers were led to the fact that they had to break the law just to do something that could of course be done in a much simpler way and there was no obstacle to seeing the information system and that's something that was then disrupting the situation of the citizens's security and trust with the police, and I'll stand there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139970	I thank my esteemed colleague. Does that mean you're gonna stop at the final? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Proposer, nothing. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Thank you again to the secretary of state at the MUP, Mr. Zarko Katic, Sonji Raguž, assistant director of the criminal police administration and Mr. Josip Bukovic, assistant chief of police administration on the reasons of the proposal. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139971	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, first reading, P.Z. No. 619. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the vote 81 ZA, 37 abstentions and 5 against, has reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139972	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z. No. 598. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system of Mrs. Majda Buric will give us an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139973	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. We therefore have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications adopted in HS at a session held on 10 July 2015 and published in the National Journal of the European Union. 82/15. It is a law that is still in force today and fully aligned with the European Parliament and Council Directive. First of all, it is necessary to explain what regulated professions are, so very briefly, the concept of regulated professions implies that the conditions for working in this profession are prescribed by a certain law, and the exercise of a regulated profession implies that a person has certain professional qualifications acquired after education, e.g. licence or professional examination or judicial examination, etc. For example. persons who have completed a law study cannot immediately work as lawyers, but must first obtain a certain working experience, pass a judicial exam, in this sense the lawyer is a regulated profession, while the lawyer is an educational qualification or, for example, The Ministry of Health has regulated the profession of the MA, or pharmacist, within the framework of the Law on Pharmacy, and the Croatian Pharmacy Chamber gives him approval for independent work if he has met the conditions prescribed by law. A list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the list contains 182 regulated professions. What is changed by this law or by these amendments to the laws, I will briefly state, therefore, that the current law stipulates that the previous examination of qualifications can also be applied to the professions to which the automatic recognition of qualifications applies, however, it is wrong and not in accordance with the directive, so it is changed in a way that the restriction cannot apply to these professions, which are doctors, recipients, dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists, nurses and architects. The second amendment applies to the EPC card, the EPC card is the European Professional Card, namely, this card is issued for 5 professions, these are pharmacists, physiotherapists, nurses, real estate agents and mountain guides. The relevant law provides for a restriction on the EPC card issued for business establishment and the EPC card issued for the purpose of the occasional and temporary provision of services, it also does not comply with the Directive, so the card issued for business creation may be limited in the sense that a certain professional chamber is to be contacted, etc., and when the EPC card is issued for the temporary and occasional provision of services, and then the person has the right to carry out the profession without any additional requirements, and this changes these amendments and additions. The third amendment concerns warning mechanisms where a person is given a ban on performing a profession, namely, in that case each Member State shall send to other Member States information on the person who is temporarily or permanently prohibited from performing a profession. The current law does not state that this person must also be informed, and this is also harmonised in these amendments and amendments. The fourth amendment concerns the possibility of checking the knowledge of Croatian language, first of all it should be emphasized that it is. The 21st century 1 states that all experts, i.e. regulated professions, must know the Croatian language to the extent necessary to work in a particular profession, and 2. is changed because the current law requires that the ability to verify knowledge of Croatian language applies to everything, which is not in line with the directive, and that part is changed in a way that the ability to verify knowledge of Croatian language can only have those professions that work with patients. The fifth segment to be amended is also related to the term ‘can’ which is amended in accordance with the Directive into ‘the sea’, namely, in the applicable law, it is prescribed that the competent authority may grant a partial approach instead of having to if all the conditions are met, and so is the change. Finally, it should only be said that there is no need to provide any additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139974	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139975	Vice President, honorary secretary of state, colleague and colleague. Here I think we can do a very short few more,... that the State Secretary explained this draft law on the date of Croatia's entry into the EU 1.7.2013 the provisions of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign qualifications were implemented but the law on these regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications was also adopted in the Croatian Assembly in 2015 and published in the National Journal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law regulates the procedure for recognising foreign professional qualifications for access to regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia for business purposes... and conditions for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Commission has carried out the evaluation of the transposition of the directive into national legislation and has been informed by expert notices of the results of the evaluation by the Republic of Croatia and expressed its concerns and questions raised in the verification of compliance with this. According to that, for the sake of action... The Republic of Croatia has acceded to amendments and amendments to this law and has implemented compliance with the Directive in its entirety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The official notice provides for an inadequate transposition of the provisions of the Directive in the field of prior verification of qualifications before the first provision of services. The relevant law stipulates that the competent authority may verify the professional qualifications of a person before the first provision of services in the case of professions which may have consequences for public health and the safety of the recipient of services but are... includes and professions to which automatic recognition applies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has also been observed that the applicable law restricts the EPC card or professional card issued for business purposes... has been extended to an EPC card issued for the purpose of temporary and occasional provision of services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this bill of law, he proposes to correct... with a directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to comply with this Directive, it is proposed to further regulate the rights of the holder of professional qualifications in the event of the application of the alert mechanism through the internal market information system. It was pointed out in the official notice that if a warning mechanism is applied, it is necessary to ensure that professional qualifications holders are simultaneously informed in a business warning via a written message. When it comes to verifying the knowledge of Croatian language, the applicable law requires that the competent authority be required to ensure that the Croatian language skills check is permitted in case of professions affecting the safety of recipients of services while the directive requires that language skills checks be limited to safety-related professions... It is proposed to correct this bill as proposed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is the fact that the implementation of this law does not require additional provision of funding in the state budget of the HDZ Club will support this bill... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139976	Thank you. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic is not present. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac is not present. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic is not present. Dear colleague Sinisha Varga is not present. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović is not present. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the secretary of state, Mrs Majdi Buric, and her associate, advisers at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, Mrs Ivani Graf, for the reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. We should now move to the agenda of the draft law supplementing the law on fiscalisation in cash, since none of the applicants are present, I am setting a break until 5:30. It's the 17th 20th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139977	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z. No. 598. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications is hereby adopted and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 112 FOR and 10 abstentions, as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139978	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.31 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the plenary session with the agenda point: - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on fiscalisation in cash, first reading, P.Z. No. 544. Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. I would like a representative of the proposer, a respected colleague of Branimir Bunjc, to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139979	Thank you very much President, here's a chance to say hello to me that I've never been before, and that's a respected colleague, since he doesn't have a colleague, we have a chance to speak exclusively to the stronger sex, and I welcome the ministry's representative. Today, we are talking about the proposal for a law on fiscalisation, or the addition of a law on fiscalisation in the transport of cash. This is essentially one change that is relatively small, so one legal article is being changed, but which is extremely important, extremely important for those people to whom this change applies, and generally important for society as a whole, because this change actually works on a number of levels and warns about the whole series of problems that people in so-called. the real sector, so people who try to self-inflicted and employ other people. We know that the fiscalisation introduced by the SDP, or their government, that the law is now being implemented in the same form by the HDZ Government. What does the Fiscalization Act mean? So he implies that all those who trade with something must issue fiscal accounts regardless of the volume of that trade, whether it is, I don't know, a trade of 2.00 kn or a trade of 2 million kuna, all must, therefore, issue these fiscal accounts, all in principle, in principle, but within that law there are exceptions, so, Art. 5. The fiscalization law says that still not everyone is obliged to issue fiscal accounts and there is now a whole series of exceptions, I wouldn't bother reading this whole article, but let's say for example. When toll charges are not required to issue invoices, then no invoices are to be issued by post office, then they are not to be required for postal services, you should not see a doctor for example. when charging for participation, etc. Imagine, for example. that you don't even have to issue bills in casinos and bookies. The thing is that all those who are excluded from issuing fiscal accounts are actually able to issue them theoretically, but here in these exceptions are not those people who find it really hard to issue these fiscal accounts, which are sellers and traders in the open space, I mean, first of all, vendors in booths, markets, fairs and other open spaces. They must therefore issue fiscal accounts although, for this reason, they have very high costs compared to their own revenues, so they have to buy these fiscal accounts, they have to maintain these software, upgrades, etc. Another thing, they have no conditions to use all that equipment properly all the time because, let's say, there are power supply problems, so, with access to electricity, there are problems when it rains, when it snows, when the wind is blowing, etc., so simply these devices can cancel and at that point, so it has to stop all traffic or trade. It is also very important to stress that most of these people issue bills for very small amounts, so these are amounts per few kunas and most importantly of all that citizens generally don't need, don't need them, don't need them, don't take them, so no one will take an account for, I don't know, half a kilo of grapes when they know that this account is a couple of kunas, and when they know that there's no time for you to come, I don't know, in five days, so you're going to advertise and look back, etc., so simply people aren't interested in those accounts. We, with these fiscal registers, therefore, in the areas I have just listed, literally torture people, torture them and harass them and harass them, and they are all very dissatisfied with it. So, go to any market, talk to any seller, and everyone will tell you that they're terribly unhappy and gunned down. What is the consequence of such a law? The consequence is that we have fewer and fewer stands in the markets. So, we now have a situation, I don't know, that in, even in Zagreb, here in the center of Zagreb, means, or in Trešnjevci, I don't know, or in some major cities, more and more stands gawking empty, empty, so people just don't want to come to the markets anymore, and one of the main reasons for that is just that complexity so that you can access the sale at all, i.e. insolvencies. So it's invaluable. And now we come to this other level that I mentioned in the introduction, which is that in Croatia it is generally invaluable to sell anything and deal with certain entrepreneurship. So it's not just those markets, they're, like, the tip of the ice. You go, here, there is the strictest center of Zagreb, take a walk on Frankopanski Street, walk on Deželić Street, walk even Ilica, it is a strict center, not only Zagreb, but a strict centre of Croatia. You've got tens and 100 empty joints. Which can't be rented for 3, 4 and 5 years. Once they all worked normally, those who were a little older remember that there was simply no empty place. Now it's a wasteland. Here's my colleague from Međimurje, she knows very well, I walked one day through the center of Čakovec, it's not some big city of 30,000 people, there are 70 empty bars in the center. I counted 70, then I stopped. So it is generally in Croatia such a condition that it is working against man. So the state instead of being an ally to its citizens, it's their enemy. The enemy. It literally wants every kind of domestic entrepreneurship to disappear, including markets. She doesn't want markets. It's a message, I don't know how else to figure it out. And we have to ask ourselves why the state behaves like that. For what? Well, it's a very simple answer, because it forces import lobbys. They force import lobbys. So it's important for them to come here to Lidl, spar, Bill, I don't know what all these malls exist and that they bring their goods and that when they sell that stuff for money, that that money goes where, goes outside of Croatia. And then we, in turn, have some political structures, interest groups make some kind of commission, so we've become from the state of production we've become a rent state, so the most important thing for us is to take some commission. And that's what's very bad and that's why, now we're going to higher levels again, why in Croatia we have a catastrophic decline in the dairy producer, why in Croatia we don't have enough fruit, why in Croatia we don't have enough vegetables. I was in the Neretva Valley two days ago, I went to these mandarin plantations, strawberry plantations, and there people are terribly unhappy. They're terribly dissatisfied. They have no place to place their products, in the middle of the Neretva Valley, in the 7th month, Albanian watermelons are sold. Albanian watermelons are being sold. Spanish tomatoes, next to the Croatian tomato plantation, are sold Spanish tomatoes. Well, someone did, so we'll see if Mr. Bacic is guilty or someone else. So it's simple, it's about destruction. And that's not good. In addition, the goods imported are far more unquality than Croatian goods. This import goods is a disaster. I don't know if you've seen those videos on Youtube about that Polish meat, so that you're unconscious about what's being imported into Croatia, what food, that there, I don't know, take those cows that have tumors, then cut out the tumors and sell the rest of the meat for Croatian kebabs. Look, don't believe me. Then the same food that comes in is imported, lots of glyphosates, GMOs, all kinds of poisons. Do you know how it's possible that from 1997 to today the number of cancer patients has increased by 3 times. Why since 1997? Why has the number of cancer patients not increased since 1994 or since 2001? In 1997 you allowed the opening of foreign trade chains. What a coincidence. Right then. What was the first chain of commerce? Mercaton in Stupnik, so I guess you remember, I believe you remember that, you're old enough. Now you're reading, here this week in the press, half the Croats suffer from infertility, half the couples have infertility problems. Cancer rates, we've come to second place in Europe, sixth place in the world. One-third of the people who die die of cancer. Three people die, one died of cancer. Have you wondered what caused it? Minister Kujundzic, I heard it with my own ears when he said it was food. That's what he said on the Health and Agriculture Committee. It's the food. Repeat. Go down to this Institute of Oncology, there's you down in Ilica the same, one kilometer away, so look what it is there. It's an ant man. There's hundreds and thousands of people out there, unlike this Parliament where there's only five, there you can really meet people, but it's very sad to meet them there in so many numbers. And so it's this whole complex situation where we're destroying domestic production, and obviously it's working on destroying domestic production. 1 So, we have destroyed entrepreneurship, 2 we have impoverished Croatian citizens, forced them into abroad, in despair, and I do not know of any arrangements, 3 we have made the health of the Croatian population worse because we have given them far worse food than they have consumed before and simply, we have created a state that does not work for people. I repeat once again, a country that works for people. You simply do not want anyone in Croatia to succeed and be rich, to represent some middle layer except the HDZ gentlemen who have fallen in love with the state services and those of the same people who are harassing, paralysing and paying their salaries, on this unfortunate so-called. the real sector. You call your fiscalization the most interesting order and honesty, that's just how you think it's the order, so no one else thinks it is. You're talking, these people in the markets, they're shoppers, they're buyers, so of course they're shoppers and buyers. What should I do now in your opinion, I don't know, a man who works on the ground, at the same time drives goods in trucks in Zagreb and stays in the market all day, so he should work at the plantation at the same time, drive and sell at the same time, is that possible? It's not possible, of course, that he must be given to some distributor who provides him with such a sure ransom to collect the goods, to bring them, to sell them for him. Who benefits from these fiscalizations, etc.? The benefits have, therefore, import lobbys, has T-com, have teleopers and computer equipment sellers, so these are, therefore, interest groups, therefore, that this measure is being implemented. And then, by the logic of everything, we close jobs, people have less and less earnings and we often wonder why in other countries such laws as we have in the Republic of Croatia do not exist, and in the Republic of Croatia there are, that's what citizens say is possible that Croatia is the only country in the world that allows such absurdities, such persecution of its own citizens. If you don't believe Mr. Secretary of State or gentlemen of HDZ, etc., let's go to any neighbor's country, so look at the markets there, look at the bars, the shops there, there can live, there's customers there, there's no living, there's no living, there's just less and less, everything's slowly gone, and until it gets any more, we won't have any domestic production or domestic entrepreneurs at all. For this reason, we in the Living Wall have, therefore, given this law in a procedure where it is crucial to amend the law to allow people to sell goods and services on open-air stands as part of markets and fairs without issuing fiscal accounts, there is, too simple, very simple change, and I repeat once again, with very broad and very useful reach and consequences. Gentlemen, I am asking you nicely to discuss this law, to let it go into another reading, and to end up accepting it because it is just, useful and therefore, simply advanced, let's say that it corrects one mistake made in the mandate of the past government, and among other things, you are so critical of the work of those past governments that were not HZDs, so at least, at least fix something a little if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139980	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for the explanation of the bill. We have replicas, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague Banjac in his, therefore, you were talking about, therefore, the import lobby, so you said no milk, here Mr. Miro Bulj yesterday proved that we have milk from Serbia, Lecara Sinj, I personally support you in your legislative proposal in the reasons that you mentioned, therefore, you did not mention another fact, and that is precisely the markets of places where the price is not fixed because people are actually priced for certain goods and of course it is very difficult to establish fiscalisation and for that. In addition, the price of certain goods in the morning is not the same as in the afternoon and thus loses one charm that markets have in the Republic of Croatia, which is that the customer can lower the price with its debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139982	Thank you. Answer me, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139983	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Sladolev, for your support. So, you're absolutely right, one of the reasons why you need to stop fiscalizing in the markets is the possibility of bargaining. So, not only is goods, let's say, in the evening, maybe it's poorer quality than it was in the morning if it's about fresh fruit and vegetables, but someone can buy simply bigger quantities of goods, so if someone buys, now I'll say, 100 kg of potatoes, it's not the same if they buy 1kg of potatoes, maybe they can lower the price, maybe they can make some action, eventually the seller himself has some kind of, let's say, an argument that can lower the price, maybe according to some person who knows there's no money, etc., but that's all these fiscal cash registers, the bargaining is allowed in markets in all the countries of the world, but here we don't, with us is the biggest bureaucratic toughness that can be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139984	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139985	Thank you, Vice President. I, too, would like to express my support for the proposal of the Living Wall in the name of the MOST Club as president of the club, it is quite clear that in certain situations fiscalisation should not be applied, that our people dealing with the production of their indigenous products should be enabled, so that they can and know how it looks at fairs that they can also be priced and that there is simply no point in applying these provisions that apply, meaning, or to large traders, to trade chains and others, so that in that sense I want to express my support, and when it comes to voting on this proposal, we will certainly support it, as did the Live Wall representatives last night, support our proposal to declare IGP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139986	Thanks to my colleague, Grmoy, I haven't seen the elements of the replica, but it doesn't matter. Here you go, pal Bunjac. [[Intruding Bunjac: Thank you very much, counsel...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139987	...representative of the Grmoy on your support once more. So it really doesn't make sense that for a couple of kunas, so let's call it a couple of dozen kunas, people just keep themselves in constant psychic tension, and he's got to be afraid all the time, if that equipment's gonna cancel out, he won't, if there's gonna be an inspection, he won't. I guarantee you on those markets people who work are not people who don't know what money they make, you can't be on, I don't know, green salad and goat cheese, I don't know what to make, except for some basic existence. These people are trying to survive, they're not some kind of bankers or tycoons, so now they're swimming in budget money, or they're stealing something, they're just mostly working physically from morning to night, and they really need to be able to make some money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139988	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Bunjac. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139989	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Proposer of the Living Wall, Honored Representatives and Representatives, Honored Representatives of the Government, Secretary of State Zrinasic, means we have before us a proposal for the Living Wall, the Law on the Completion of the Law on Fiscalisation in Cash. It is two indents in one article on change and today through this debate, but also the one we may have spent more extensively on the Committee on Finance spans three topics, these are domestic products, indigenous products, protected products, the other mentioned small producers, and the third mentions the bargaining. As regards domestic indigenous or otherwise, in the case of products with different quality labels produced in the Republic of Croatia, all producers in the Republic of Croatia have the right to sell their own products without fiscalisation, that is, what is crucial. The other thing, the proposer here states that this bill would go in favour of small producers, however, he does not mention any small producers or sellers anywhere in his draft law, nor does he give the opportunity here to non-fiscalise accounts, sales of goods and services on open-air stands, sales of goods and services at booths within markets and fairs. What does that mean? Is it only possible that small sellers, producers do not fiscalise accounts or that we allow any firm in the open and closed market and sales fairs without fiscalization, that is exactly what we allow. So, that anyone, even though it's said here, is going to help the little one, and now a little bit, then the law was going to have to supplement this law, so to speak. Now, what does bargaining mean? So one price reduction, no seller, no producer is forbidden to, what is bargaining means, that a certain discount at its price, whether it's due to some communication with potential customers, on the other hand, when we're looking at the fiscalization law alone, the promoter said that it's a simple solution, simple solutions usually don't work, and that has far-reaching consequences, that's true, because we already here explain that it's not who, or anything, but only where. Now, if the obligation of fiscalisation for open and closed spaces, open and closed markets is avoided, it does not mean that someone does not have to issue an account, so the other is a series of laws that prescribe that bills must be issued, so that what is crucial in the Republic of Croatia is the manufacturer of its own product, quality, protected additionally, mark of some kind, quality additional, with or without it can sell its products without fiscalization. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that it compares here that this obligation is given to those who sell on markets that sell on other venues and wants to show that the existing law shows that another set of activities that are very opposite perhaps to certain objectives that the state should encourage, that is not at all controlled, that is not true. The fiscalisation is carried out according to activities that are justified, we have this case of selling our own products and in situations where other measures, all data obtained by fiscalization, means, when it is even more, let's say, more aggressive and stronger control and when we go to compare, I don't know, the implementation of healthcare, it's in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Employment Service, we all know that we have instructions and similar documents to be recorded, right, all the activities and health care services in public health. On the other hand, postal traffic, it's in control of the CNB, bank services, central depository. Now, let's say, there was a particular problem on the board because it was wanted to show how traffic by types of games to be lucky and making fun games that it was especially without control, it was absolutely not without control, but, let's say when betting, the Ministry of Finance has the data for every paid ticket, on the other side of the games on the machines, they are all connected to the Central Information System, on the line in real-time, in terms of games in casinos, so the device has to be provided with video surveillance of all parts of the table in the casino and the box in which they are given, in which they are given, as a means, in which they are held, in which the chips, in which they are given the tips, and the bills are not covered by the camera, so that there are no words that the state does not control the games in which they are given, in fact, as well as well as the means of the assets of the law on the fiscalisation of the traffic, and the other side have a significant number of the data, the data, the data of the data, which are available to the data; Because reason has nothing to do with what will have the consequences of this, the application of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139990	Thank you very much. It's not right now, Mr. Tomislav Zhagar, in front of the club of independent, independent, independent representatives. He's gone? He's losing his right. Mr. Sasa Djujic, as an individual debate. He's gone? He's losing his right. And Mr. Bunjac, out front, individual debate, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139991	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So I would just briefly refer to this presentation of the HDZ Club of Representatives, where they say that we are practically pushing for market sales to be uncontrollable, that's simply not true. We're in favour of the flat-rate tax, so these sellers know in advance how much they cost and see if they can't handle it or can't handle it, and that they're doing business accordingly, and not that they have to, I repeat, harass them with these fiscal tills, every kuna, they're constantly terrified, and I'm constantly under terrible stress about it, and eventually they give up, giving up because of the pressure. I'm sorry that MP Vranjš doesn't see that the simple pressure of the state on entrepreneurs, on craftsmen, on all workers is too big to say that it's just creepy, so even in the Middle Ages, you've been giving 25% of your profits to a feudal man and that was it, it's been said that feudalism is very scary, that it's exploiting people, and today 25% of people remain, and that means the ruling majority says it's okay, that it has to be that way and so on. What's wrong? It is okay to pay illegal debts, to waste Croatian money on all sides, to be able to pay abnormal wages to any state officials, primarily politicians, but it is not in the interests of the people, it is not in the interest of the vast majority of citizens, nor is it in the interest of Croatia's future. Let's just imagine the fact that 63% of the fuel price is given to the state, that we have to give 37% of our salary to the state, 37%, that after that we still have 25% to pay for VAT. Then we have to make up some fees, some excise fees, some of which are all the expenses then here's the invention of these fiscal cash registers, these softwares, these kind of things, things like that over and over and over again, and people just don't get paid to do anything, nothing. Here, you tell me, MP Vranjš, I now have an individual debate if you want to answer what in Croatia to make a million kunas. Tell me what. It's crazy that he gives his money, I don't know his life savings in Croatia, for what? Let him have it, let the state take him and rob him and throw the man on a beggar stick. How many people invested and everything they had, even coming from abroad with big savings, everything fell apart here in Croatia, they simply fell apart. I repeat once again because the state is their enemy, the state is not friends with Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs, it is their mortal enemy. And that's what you need to understand. And if you get into a situation where you're 2, 3 kunas, I don't know about a handful of shaking people up so much you're bothering people that his life sits down, so how can you expect anyone else here to invest and do anything. No, turn around, look at the wasteland, look at how many O.P.G.s have closed, how many halves have been cut in half, how few cows are there? Do you know that if we didn't import food today, we'd be loud? We would be hungry in Croatia, which has a fertile country, the perfect climate that once fed 5 countries, we would starve. Isn't that sad? And you wonder what the reason is. Is that why the Living Wall or HDZ, here, answer us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139992	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Ivan Lovrinović's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. Finally, Mr. Bunjac. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139993	Can I finish on behalf of the proposer then?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139994	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139995	Thank you very much. Croatian people, I'm talking to you because unfortunately, except for three MPs and one secretary of state, I have no one to address. This is the state of the Croatian state where we live today. This means our reality to you. When trying to help a small man, when trying to help a Croatian citizen, when trying not to help a Croatian worker to survive, to make a living, to take care of his family, etc., this does not interest anyone in this Croatian Assembly, neither the representatives nor the media. They are only interested in it, and it is only they themselves, what their wages are, what their privileges are, what they will gain, and what benefits they have. The media will report two days in a row whether someone said Ressler or Rasler, whether someone said Meras or Maras, whether someone was James Bond or I don't know some other comic hero from the movie, but the real problems that bother the Croatian people here are not being solved. What you see here right now is this empty assembly, it's your HDZ program, their pre-election program. They don't want the Croatian Parliament, they don't want us, they don't want us a couple of MPs who are still talking here, they're going to eliminate us with the guards, the military, the NATO alliance, I don't know who they're going to send them all to. They will never punish those who do not come, nor will they punish those who come, who speak, who work. Look and wonder who you're voting for, who you're voting for on May 26th. Will you vote for the continuation of agony, for the continuation of desolation, for the continuation of emigration, for the continuation of the sale of not only all resources but all ideals for which the Croatian people have been pursuing practically a thousand and a half years, or you will vote for change because this is no longer going on, it is not going. Not that it's 5 to 12, but it's 5 after 12. It's up to you to decide, wake up, tell you, wake up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139996	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue work at 9.30 p.m. The proposal for a meteorological and hydrological activity law and as a second item of the agenda will be the Report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2018. Thank you. Have a nice and pleasant evening. SECURE Interrupted at 18.13 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-25-0.u139997	Proposal for a law supplementing the law on fiscalisation in cash, first reading, P.Z. No. 544, proposed by the Living Wall and SNAGE Representatives Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the law on fiscalisation in cash transport is not accepted, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 78 for, 19 abstentions and 13 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
