ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145167	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. As in the first reading, a reminder related to this extremely important issue, so the question of missing and violently taken persons in the Homeland War is undoubtedly the most powerful humanitarian issue in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore this government has joined the creation of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War. At its meeting on 5 April 2019, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion adopting the draft law. Respecting the comments and suggestions between the first and second readings, we have prepared a final draft of a law that has produced certain nomotechnical changes. Today, the fate of 1892 is unknown, I recall that at the first reading and presentation of the bill, the number was 1903 and after the identifications were reduced by 11 persons, a reminder that 411 requests for the search for post-mortem remains were fatal and that since 1892 the persons were 436 with the status of Croatian defenders, the basic reasons for the adoption of this law are legal dispersion which opens up the possibility of legal gaps and incorrect interpretation of the existing legal framework, the inability to carry out activities for which we did not have a foothold in the existing legal framework, the need for a clear and uniform determination of competences which are of particular importance in relations with neighbouring countries and the legal regulation of the rights of missing persons and their families to learn the fate of their missing members. This is also a recommendation for many international mechanisms, instruments in the field of human rights. Finally, the bill sets out a legislative framework to address the issues of missing and violently taken persons in the Homeland War, since there is no single law in the Republic of Croatia governing the rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families to learn the fate of their missing members and the process of their search. The final proposal for a law provides for all segments of the missing persons' search procedure, the keeping of records of missing persons and of all exhumed and identified persons, the competent authorities for the implementation of the law and their work, cooperation with other countries, international organisations and associations and infringements. The proposed legal arrangement does not provide for material rights based on the disappearance of family members but are regulated by the Law on Croatian Defence and Family Members and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of Homeland War. This law lays down the fundamental right of family members to give them the truth about the fate of their missing members. What we find very important is the provision that the search for persons missing in the Homeland War and the remains of the death-related obligations of the Republic of Croatia. The aim of this law is to ensure an effective framework of work to contribute to the effectiveness of the search for persons missing in the Homeland War. For the first time, the bodies responsible for the search for missing persons are clearly and unambiguously designated and are prescribed in part by their actions. Such a determination of competence is also of particular importance in relation to neighbouring countries. In particular, I would like to point out that the final draft of the law stipulates that the Republic of Croatia is competent in the search for all persons who at the time of the disappearance or death had Croatian citizenship or registered residence or residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and foreign nationals who have the status of the Croatian defender. The jurisdiction to search for missing foreign nationals who do not have the status of Croatian defender is the state whose citizen is that person in accordance with his regulations and international standards. In that case, the Republic of Croatia shall, in accordance with international standards and national rules, participate in the search for those persons at the request of the authorities responsible for the search for missing persons of the State whose national is missing. The final draft of the law unites and prescribes all activities in the search for the missing. Since the reporting of disappearances, collection and research of knowledge of hidden tombs, exhumation, identification, cooperation with international organisations of other countries and associations of families registered in the Republic of Croatia. It was also necessary to provide for the implementation of activities for which we have so far not had a foothold in the existing legal framework, which are the possibility of launching the procedure for seeking official duty in cases where there are no living family members, exhumation, processing and identification of post-mortem remains in cases where there are no doubts about the violent death or the criminal proceedings have ended. Re-exhumation of postmortem remains in case of reasonable doubt in the reliability of identification. For the first time, infringement provisions are also prescribed for bodies, organisations, institutions, as well as natural persons who do not provide available information and documentation, and necessary assistance to solve cases of persons missing in the Homeland War. The only substantive amendment to the bill refers to Article 1 where the last paragraph 3 was deleted, on this law on 30 August is declared on the Day of Remembrance of Missing Persons as mentioned in the meaning of the law governing the mentioned in the Republic of Croatia, as the Day of Remembrance for Missing Persons will be regulated by the General Law on Holidays, Mentions and Non-Work Days in the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as a comprehensive legislative solution will be recognised and supported, for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War will be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145168	Thank you, Minister. We have three replicas. The first is a respected colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145169	Thank you. Dear Ministers, so I have come across the family meanings of missing persons, they have brought up some of their particular problems that are not just part of this law, so they have a problem that I have to appeal to here and to the government, so when it comes to the property, the settlement of property-law issues, families are forced to declare the missing person dead to solve these issues, and they suggest that the missing person should be considered a deceased person, i.e. put the same position with the deceased when it comes to the above-mentioned issue, it is not a question of this law. Likewise, when we talk about searching for remains, they suggest that suspects be able to be witnesses of repentance, so the question of Sotina victims who are thus found has been resolved. So let's think about these suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145170	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145171	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative on the first question, so it is not necessary to declare a member of the family to die in order to achieve their status. This is the answer to the first question, and as far as these possibilities are concerned, so that the person who has knowledge of fate in any way that his contribution to informing about possible mass graves always exists, either in addressing directly to the Ministry of Croatian Defence or to any other competent body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145172	Second replica, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145173	Thank you very much. Ministers of this Law on Missing Croatian Defences, if one of our missing persons is resolved, will be a successful law, and I do not believe that anyone is against that law, but it is not only the Ministry of Defence and your office that deals with this problem the key to this story. We have a foreign ministry that is obliged to monitor Serbia in Chapters 23, 24 on EU pre-accession. We had a meeting of the Veterans Committee where we unanimously concluded that a report was brought and that the minister came, it was 3.4, 19.4. did not come, nor did she report because there were obviously no reports, and he promised the board president that it would be in a day, two, and it was not met. So this isn't just the D.A.'s office that's responsible, it's responsible. the responsible foreign minister because he does not respect, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He doesn't respect government decisions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145175	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, a reminder therefore that one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is precisely that clear definition of the competence of all the bodies in the Republic of Croatia which we have achieved in this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145176	And the third replica of my colleague Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145177	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I'm glad we have a new Missing Persons Act in the Homeland War, which we haven't had so far, but I'll remind you we haven't had a law yet, but Colonel Grujic has found more than 80% of the missing persons, which is evident. Now, if we're going to improve this new law, I'm going to be satisfied, but my particular question would be how many in the last three years, in the last three years, have we found missing persons in Croatia? In the last three years, and we know three years ago, our president met on that bridge with Mr. President Vukic and a public play like that, they were talking about missing persons who needed to be updated all together. So here's what I'm interested in how many missing persons have we found in the Republic of Croatia in the last three years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145178	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145179	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, so a reminder and precisely the purpose of passing this law is to achieve circumstances or preconditions through a clear legal framework and clear jurisdiction. With regard to the results of work in the government's term of office over the past 3 years, the average results of the discovery or exhumation and identification of the remains of the missing persons of the Homeland War have been higher than in the past 10 years. So, in accordance with the abilities we have built in the quality cooperation of all inter-resor bodies, and this law achieves that very clearly and precisely define and create preconditions for the efficiency and discovery of missing persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145180	Had a request for a break, as far as I could tell. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145181	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes because it's a very important law and I say once again if this law is implemented and if we solve one missing person from the Homeland War, this will be a successful law. However, the minister said that this law defines the other bodies to be included here with the article, but the foreign ministry headed by Minister Buric did not respect the government's decision of 2016 to monitor the Commission's implementation monitoring and criteria on negotiating Chapter 23, 24. The Republic of Serbia because it was obliged to report, one to meet four times a year, and one report to minimum is to send the presidents of the Republic, I sent an inquiry to the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic replied that she had not received any follow-up reports on 23rd and 24th. The chapters of the Republic of Serbia, which means that the minister is not doing her job, that she is not working in the interest of finding our missing, and we were in session of the Veterans Committee, there is counterpart Culej, there is Djakic, there are other colleagues where we have unanimously sought reports on Serbia's EU accession accession. It was said at the next session, the minister did not come to the session on 19.4., it was said that she would be busy the next day, she did not come, which means she demeans the 2016 government's decision and she does not follow Serbia 23rd, 24th. A chapter before joining the EU. She does not work in the interest of the Croatian Defence Minister, she does not work for the family, exhumation and invention of these missing persons, she violates government decisions, foreign minister works against the interests of our Croatian citizens i.e. Croatian Defence of the Minister. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145182	Thank you very much. We'll be back at 10 o'clock and 55 minutes. Thank you. It's 10.42 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] Yes, the Honorable President of the Committee on War Veterans, Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145184	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an assistant, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I welcome first and foremost the families of the missing who accompany us from the gallery and the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 16th session held on 12 June 2019, discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by an act of 6 June 2019. The Committee held the hearing as a parent working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 91. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the Republic of Croatia, according to the proposing representatives, we have so far not had a single law prescribing the immaterial rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families. This law protects the fundamental rights of missing persons and their families and simultaneously contributes to the preservation of their dignity. It allows the revision of an existing agreement on the search for missing persons with the Republic of Serbia. All activities in the search for missing persons have been co-ordinated by the Office for Detained and Missing Croatian Defence Ministry. In relation to the text of the law in the first reading, some nomotechnical changes have been introduced, as well as some proposed by this Committee. In the discussion, the members of the committee resented the lack of evidence of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs at the conclusion of the committee meeting at which the proposal for the first law was discussed and the report was delivered by the Commission on the monitoring of the implementation of the criteria... Chapters 23 and 24 on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU with an emphasis on the cooperation of the Republic of Serbia in identifying and revealing the fate of missing persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, there is a lack of reference to the fact that no word in the law itself mentions the large-scale Serb aggression caused by the Homeland War and stresses that the cost of seeking missing persons should be borne by the Republic of Serbia to their families. No explanation has been accepted by the Croatian Defence Ministry on the non-acceptation of the proposal to award information from the Ministry of Defence and has also been asked about the total funds used to buy information on missing persons by the competent authorities. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War with the next amendment. In Article 15, a new paragraph 2 is added, which reads as "every natural person provides credible information, information or documentation on the sites of mass or individual graves, will be awarded under the Croatian Defence Ministry Regulation." The Committee is also unanimously with 10 votes to reach the next conclusion "the Office of the National Security Council and the Ministry of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, delivers information on the total funds spent to buy information on the sites of mass and individual graves or missing persons from the end of the Homeland War to the present day." This conclusion of the Committee was of course sent to relevant bodies and the amendment to the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145185	Thank you very much. I would now open a debate on this point and first, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the re-respected representative Josip Djakic will speak for himself, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Assistant, Honored Families of Missing Defence, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club welcomes the adoption of this law in a second reading of persons missing in the Homeland War. As we know, the Republic of Croatia does not have a single law that prescribes the immaterial rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families and was necessary to protect the fundamental rights and dignity of those persons. Unfortunately, it's been too many years since it came to the parliamentary procedure, but here, finally, it has arrived before us both parliamentary representatives and in the second reading. The legal framework in the area regulated by this law consists of the Geneva Convention for the Protection of Victims of War and their supplementary protocols ratified by the Republic of Croatia back in '91. A year. It also applies the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia, the criminal laws, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Law on the Announcing of Persons of Death and the Evidence of Death, and other laws. The activities and responsibilities themselves in the search for persons missing in the Homeland War are prescribed by the Government's Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence and by the decision to set up a commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for prisoners and missing persons. Currently, the Republic of Croatia is still looking for 1902 persons through the Ministry of Detained and Missing Ministry of the Croatian Defence and for 1488 persons missing in the Homeland War and 414 dead persons unknown to the burial site. All activities in the process of seeking missing and deadlyly injured persons for whom there is no known place of burial such as the collection of knowledge, recording, exhumation, identification, funeral care and others require close cooperation, interdisciplinary access of competent authorities, which are the Administration of Detained and Missing, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Justice, Security Intelligence Agency, County State Attorney's Office, Office of State Administration in County and Others. This law prescribes all the necessary activities or obligations of the competent authorities in the process of seeking missing persons. It is important to stress that the issue has been regulated by special laws in countries that have fallen apart from the former Yugoslavia. So in BiH, this Missing Persons Act was passed for 204 years and in the Republic of Serbia it was regulated by the 2012 Migration Management Act. The adoption of this law will allow the revision of the existing agreement on the search for missing persons with the Republic of Serbia and, hopefully, further to the rapid discovery of the fate of missing persons, i.e. the knowledge of the sites of mass and individual tombs. The law regulates and regulates the collection and processing of data and archive buildings on missing persons, keeping records, collecting knowledge of the fate of missing persons, possible graves, research and concealment of mass and individual graves, exhumation of post-mortem remains, keeping records of the sites of mass and individual graves, processing and identification of post-mortem remains, and the funeral and permanent proper care, cooperation with the competent authorities of other countries and international organisations, and bodies responsible for the implementation of the law and their demarcation. Since this law does not prescribe the material rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and members of their families because they are prescribed by the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, it will not be necessary to provide funds for its implementation. In the final draft of the law we are discussing, the Proposer took note of some of the remarks and proposals made in the debate both at the plenary session and in discussions by committees and such a proposal by law, which the final HDZ Club is unreservedly supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145187	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Allen Prelec, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145188	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates. So always talk about the injured, killed but also the missing Croatian defenders and all Croatians in the Homeland War is extremely difficult. That's why I still don't know how many times I feel for all those who have left their loved ones in this war. Here, hello up at the gallery to everyone who's here knows what I'm talking about and that's one tough question and it's hard to talk about. Clearly, it's a matter of human dignity, but it's also a humanitarian question. I, as here on behalf of the SDP Club, clearly support this law and hope that this law will help us to find even one missing Croatian, or Croatian citizen. However, we must know that even before we had this law to disappear Croatians, the missing Croats were found. I said in the opening minister that Colonel Grujic had one large percentage of missing Croats found in the Homeland War. And whether this law will bring more improvement, I hope it will bring. In any case, we at the SDP and our club support this law that has shortcomings, which I will say in particular some things, however, this issue should in any case try to solve further. But in order to, behold, I would begin with my fact-telling, fact-finding fact about the Croatian Homeland War and the Croatians' injuries in the Croatian Homeland War. According to current data, life was lost and 22 thousand 211 people disappeared in the Croatian Homeland War. A lot too much. The database includes the names of 13 thousand 914 people, conditionally said on the Croatian side, who are presumed to have been killed, of which 8257 Croatian defenders and 5657 civilians. That's probably going to change. This should also be added to 1093 persons, i.e. 428 Croatian defenders and 665 civilians, who, according to data from the Ministry of Detained and Missing Croatian Defence from November 2016, are led as missing. We just heard from the minister that it was a person in 1893. Of course it's horrible, and that's why I feel for everyone who's lost their loved ones again. So the total number of victims and missing persons on the Croatian side was 15 thousand and 7 persons, 15 thousand and 7 persons. In the area under the control of the self-proclaimed Republika Srpska, a total number of victims and 7 thousand 204 people are missing. According to data from October last year, 6.000 304 people were killed and 900 people of the Serb nationality of five soldiers and 895 civilians are missing. Of these, 6 thousand 127 Serbian ethnicities, 395 members of JNA 3 thousand 86 members of the Serb military, the Krajina of the RSK MUP and Serbian paramilitary troops and 178 civilians. For 864 deceased persons on that list, status is unknown. The remaining 1077 dead persons in the occupied territory of Croatia since '91-'95. are non-Serb nationalities, of which 821 Croats, 78 Muslims, Bosniaks and 25 Hungarians. For almost all the mortal victims of Croatian defenders as well as members of Serb forces and civilians in the occupied area, the circumstances of the victims are well known, which is not yet the case for dead civilians in the free area of Croatia. Who knows which times all these things need to be looked back and expressed their condolences to all the victims no matter what side they are on. I'm saying this, not for young people and for all of us to be burdened with the past, but for the record, and it should never be forgotten. Despite all efforts, Croatia is still searching for 1,533 missing persons and 419 persons with post-mortem remains, totalling 1,952 persons per see Minister 1,892 persons. Since last October, Minister Medved said that we are still talking about the first reading, gathered knowledge of 55 possible places of hidden mass and individual tombs in the 10 county area. We conducted, quote, a full field survey at 42 locations where 68 people were found and exhumed. We've conducted field reconnaissance at another 66 possible locations of mass and individual tombs, which are under way for analytical and operational processing. We've organized six identifications that eventually identify the remains of 60 people. The ministry, it stressed, is intensively developing bilateral relations and is working to sign the protocol as a prerequisite and establish genuine co-operation in resolving the missing. A protocol was signed in the co-operation of Croatia and the BiH Council of Ministers, followed by the signing of a protocol with the Montenegrin government. Why am I reading this? Because I once again ask Minister Bear to tell me how many people have been found in the last three years? I don't think the data is accurate, and you said now that you've found it, you've found it more than in the last three years than in the last 10 years. I don't think that's true and that you're manipulating the data. A key obstacle to the effective resolution of the missing is the lack of accurate information on unregistered sites of mass and individual tombs from the Homeland War, and with key documentation on the issue available to the Republic of Serbia, Minister Medved stressed. Now, I'm gonna stick around for a while, about having the key things still have the Republic of Serbia. And now in 2016, our media reported on the historic meeting of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović and President Vukic, it was in the Far Sea on the famous bridge and I will now read to you what the president told you about what they were talking about, and she talked about speeding up the application of the conflict agreement and continuing the search for missing persons. She said that in 2016, and then Mr. Honored Vukic said that open issues would not be yet a protocol meeting. Here's what they said in 2016, nice Colinda and Minister Vukic, or President Vukic, but it went well for 3 years, nothing. And then they met in 2018, President Vukic and Honored President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, and then the minister, or President Vukic, said on the issues that in the concrete results of Vucic's daily stay in Croatia, the president said that it was a very concrete result of a bunch of documentation in which he brought from the Court to the Union. I hope that solving the fate of 3 missing persons, i.e. solving the fate of 3 families from Croatia, can solve the issue in such a way that they can come and close a part of their past. Here, Colinda has actually received a protocol for 3 persons from President Vukic, and I must say that these 3 people were actually not strangers to the Croatian side because a year ago and so on they knew the fate of those 3 people. What I'm saying here is that it was another one of those shows for the public. In the last three years, it has been since the President and President Vukic's bridge was met, and then the meeting in Zagreb, nothing concrete has happened except those three protocols that President Vukic brought, and that was the 3 people who had already known since their previous fate. Of course, I'm saddened by this kind of performance when we're burning on the fates of the victims, the missing, and then the president is waving some kind of paper and some kind of conversation with the president, and we ourselves know that the key to all of this lies together in Serbia. They have documentation, they know a lot of things, and they can help all the victims, but they don't. Meetings are here on the bridge or in Zagreb, the result is the same, Serbia has done nothing or almost nothing to help find the victims and missing in the Croatian Homeland War. If President Josipovic had done so, former President Josipovic or the government of Zoran Milanovic at the time was concerned about what the streets of Zagreb would look like. Would it be gas bottles again, tents in front of the D.A.'s office again? How would the minister, former Minister Fred Matic, pass the question if he had done so at the time? This is the key difference between when HDZ is in power and SDP. When HDZ is in power then everything is allowed, everything can be talked to and manipulated by the public then everything is allowed. Clearly we just need to hold on to, the hand of the heart and that is it then we are big enough Croats, waved with flag we are big enough Croats, but when it is necessary to do something concrete when this Croatia is to be loved by work then it is something else, in works it is something else. Then HDZ can perform like this and not solve anything. The president can meet with Vukic twice and he can't solve anything. We get three protocols, none of which means anything. Well, that's not how you love Croatia, and I don't think that's how you love Croatia. It's not enough to wave the flag and hold on to your heart. Well, now I'm going to read you a part of this new law so let the minister tell me that he thought article 53 would solve some problems. He says: “A fine of 5 thousand to 20 thousand kuna will be fined by a natural person who, in accordance with Article 15 of this Act, does not provide the Ministry with all the information and documentation available to solve cases of persons missing in the Homeland War and the mortally injured persons from the Homeland War for whom there is no known place of burial.” So from five to twenty thousand kuna we will punish someone who has not given enough information, we are talking about natural persons, my question would be how do we know that some natural person knows something about the victims and how we will punish them with five to twenty thousand kunas? He can say I don't know anything. Here's my particular question, how are we going to know that she knows something and how we're going to punish her five to twenty thousand kunas, we want to walk into a house in some area and say if you know the information about the victims and we're going to punish you with twenty thousand kunas, so let someone explain to me how we're going to know? Maybe colleague Culey knows, he's been like this all along, like this here's the air-conditioned head, but here's the thing. Here is my colleague Djakic also knows, and I will repeat another question about this, and that is what Djakic asked, namely the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, the question is that the Office of the National Security Council and the Ministry of the Interior are obliged to provide information on the total funds spent to purchase information on the sites of mass and individual graves, or missing persons from the end of the Homeland War to this day, and here is the answer, and that is the War Veterans Committee. Here's a lot of questions, there's a lot of ambiguities, I hope with this law we'll reduce the suffering of those who are still looking for their loved ones, but let's not let it be the way it's been so far, without fire, without desire, because there's a saying if you don't want to do anything, then you form a commission, and that's a lot of times with us. So that it doesn't turn out now if you don't want to do anything, suggest a new law on missing persons in the Croatian Homeland War and cover up everything we haven't done in all these past 25 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145189	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is one of the independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Marko Vučetic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145190	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, and, above all, the relatives of the missing and the dead in the Homeland War. I'm going to be as brief as possible, only because of the subject and seriousness, and what she's bringing in and the ambience that this law forms, which is to paraphrasise a philosopher Jacques Derrid who said that we should learn to communicate with past spirits and future spirits. This means that man can't be human if he doesn't refer to the truth that has passed, that past truth when it comes to human life, is contained in this truth that we were born and we died. By this law we know of the victims, who disappeared in the Homeland War that they were born, what happens to their fate we do not know, but we know that here on the gallery there are persons who, in the way of active mourning, treat the spirit of their missing family members, their active mourning is grief that will last their whole lives, they refer to the truth of the spirit and the spirits of their own family. On the other hand, we have a minister as a representative of the Ministry who shows how institutions and states treat individuals and the truth, that is not a regret, that is what is contained in the concept of immaterial rights, and most importantly the immaterial right to the truth. This Law is therefore the Law on the Truth of the Homeland War and in the debate in the first reading I said that this Law cannot at all be related to the great Serb aggression in the name, because I would then agree that it is a great Serb aggression that justifies the Republic of Croatia and which marks its present. No, I don't. Those who start a war, those who love war, those who profit from war, they have started a march of madness or march nonsense, only people who start a war, who worship war, who see war in all things, are members of this column of march nonsense and march of madness, which takes away the future, who cannot communicate with the past or the future spirits and who cannot ensure the immateriality of truth. Homeland war wasn't such a war. The Homeland War in this Syntagma Homeland War, it's a war after which peace comes, in peace strengthens social tolerance, strengthens social values and creates a citizen who becomes a moral entity or one who acts morally. This Law contributes to and opens the perspective that when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia fully learn the truth about a thousand 488 missing persons and 414 dead people, when we fully learn this last immaterial truth, then we can become a society that has allowed the Homeland War to become a society of peace and prosperity. This did not allow large-serb aggression, so in this first reading, I stressed that the immateriality of truth must rest on positive concepts and on positive orientations. Society can develop as pre-political, pre-modern and pre-modern. It's a society that ultimately corresponds to all the wars, the wars, the conflicts, the loose ends. Society can develop as a political, modern and modern society if it rests on laws and if these laws are able to communicate with the history of a society, but they do not instill that society in history. This law is the shortest, simplest thing to do right now, and it revives this immateriality of truth, which is that the Homeland War becomes a value and the value of the Homeland War is peace, prosperity, development of social values, virtues that will be directed towards a good individual. This law understands that Croatian society cannot develop as long as there are family members who do not know what happened to their loved ones and who communicate daily with their missing and mortal victims in a way that actively grieves, not the truth about their disappearance and the end of their lives. This law should make it possible and therefore, on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, I can only support this law as I did in my first reading and because it has many effects. The first is that it allows the mourning process in the families of the missing and the mortally injured to be the concept of mourning that corresponds to the truth of their family members to that individual existential truth. The second level is that this law confronts Croatia with modernity and what is modern. And the third is that this law opens up Croatia's future and provides values of truth, tolerance for development in Croatian society. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145191	The next Club of Representatives will be the Independent Lists Bridge, and time will be shared by respected representatives Bulj and Grmoja. Here you go. First respected representative, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145192	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers of the Medved and esteemed Assistant Minister Sucic. It's ahead of us, and I'd like to welcome, of course, the families of the missing people in the Homeland War who are here with us and those who are following us and who are expecting to get rid of it means the number of their loved ones. However, on this law when I last spoke, I said that the Homeland War, the war of the Croatian people's unity and the foundation of the creation of a modern Croatian state in the community, and I remain. However, the cause of all the missing is major Serbian aggression because we do not have to talk about the consequences. Homeland war is a consequence, but large- Serbian aggression is the cause that has caused the missing Croatian, Croatian soldiers, Croatian civilians, and also those who have made aggression against the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that this law should now be called a law on the missing because of large-scale Serbian aggression, and nextly we will offer an amendment because it is an amazing minister respecting the efforts of your assistant, your ministry, not to mention, in any article of 50 and some articles, great Serb aggression. The cause of all evils is a great Serbian Chetnic aggression, which you are a witness and as a Croatian defender is pointed out, so is Mr Sucic, which all citizens in the Republic of Croatia witnessed regardless of whether they were a majority of the people or a minority. I would immediately say here that this law should mean it, we will accept the law because we believe that if one of the missing persons is found to be worthy of all our efforts by the Ministry of Defence and our MPs. However, as the minister said at the outset, it is not only the Ministry of Defence, it is even stated in this law that not only is the Ministry of Defence responsible for finding and exhumation, finding and all that is stated in this law that we do not repeat ourselves and the number of missing because every man is worthy, their family is worth it. In this law, it is necessary to surround itself from the ministries to the Red Cross, and you state it. However, the 2016 government's decision established a commission headed by Foreign Minister Buric, the foreign minister. It was required four times a year to have this to monitor the Republic of Serbia's entry into the European Union in chapters 23 and 24 where simply Serbia has the opportunity to have legal jurisdiction over Croatian defenders. In essence, with the legislation with which Serbia entered, it was simply the Croatian defenders who were brought here in the position that it was actually a small Hague, Serbia was currently given a small Hague, and that the aggressor was given the opportunity to judge those who defended the Republic of Croatia at the very least and therefore the Ministry was obliged to follow the Republic of Serbia in Chapters 23 and 24. Following this, I asked the President of the Republic, who is in charge of the Committee of Minister Buric, on which she is headed, to report once a year. I have a response from the President of the Republic that says she has not received a single report from Minister Buric of that Committee for the Monitoring of Serbia chapter 23 and 24. Not once is it what it means that the Foreign Ministry is boycotting the finding of our missing. Why? Because if anyone can prepare the ground and if anyone, it is diplomacy, with everything that is the engagement of course of the Ministry of Defence, professional people, find, exhumation and you indicate and find Croatian citizens in the territory of another state to exhume and deliver here to their families. However, as the minister behaves, at least the minister is ashamed. Fourth, in the 4th month, we had a Committee on Veterans, and here is counterpart Djakic and colleague Culej, where a unanimous, unanimous conclusion has been reached that the minister delivers reports to us. Reports not delivered. At the session we had in 19.05 and then the president of the Committee is on my request because it is a business, it is the duty of the minister to be, said it would be within one to two days. However, until today's minister's day, this obligation and fellow MPs from the chairman of the Committee of Minister Buric has not been made, which means that he boycotts and sabotages the decisions of the Croatian government that should be in common vertical with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the DORH and all other bodies and finding our missing and that is more than embarrassing. I would have mentioned in the end that Alexander Vukic's arrival was... A Chetnik who mocked Croatian defenders, who acted here as he did in 94 when he urged people of Serbian nationality to go to Serbia's borders while he fled. [[You don't understand.]] When it began he was the one who caused the Homeland War, then the president was absolutely president of the current wrong because this man did not deserve until he apologized, until he went to Glin and apologized first to all Croatian citizens, among other victims, he has nothing to do in the Republic of Croatia. The only thing that can go to Remetinac is that it is one of the key causes of the aggression of the Serbian people and the insolence of the Serbian people on its neighbours and on the Serbian border. And from that meeting with the President of the Republic, we absolutely don't have any results. Following how much we must hold onto our missing, to their families, how much we must strive for all your sacrifice if there is no synergy of the Ministry of Defense, all the people who work if there is no synergy, unfortunately, the results are as they are. Unfortunately, I suggested here that it be Peace Day and Dr. Dan. Ivan Schreter. Well, we have a parliamentary representative who's part of most of the minister who supports you, who knows where dr. Ivan Schreter is our missing peacemaker. However, we have no movement, except that we have these people who continue to cloud the truth, still mock the victims from either side. And I repeat once again, the Homeland War is not the cause of the missing and the dead, but the great Serb aggression that is not mentioned anywhere in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145193	The next will continue on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta, respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145194	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so my colleague Bulj has already announced we will give a series of amendments. We welcome the families of the missing and most of the amendments are in collaboration with the families. And what we're going to suggest is what we disagree with, here's a colleague of Vučetic's not even talking about the law itself. I don't know if he even looked at him, he supported this proposal on the very name of the law. It's not just about the name of the law. It is that the whole law avoids the expression of great Serbian aggression and we believe that, for the sake of precision, this statement should not be avoided in the text of these and other Croatian laws. Besides, here's what I didn't bring... to figure out what this is about. [[The speaker is disabled, not understood]] I got her testimony from Mrs. Vesna Bjanovic. During these events it means during the great-Serbian aggression, we cannot talk about the Homeland War because it happened in the Vojvodina area, lost father and uncle and she sent me here her sad destiny, the fate of her family means those Vojvodina Croats who lived in Morovic and so now live, now she lives in Osijek. They still today, so she doesn't know where her father is today, where her uncle is. And now says Mrs. Bjanovic: "We have never received official information about what happened to the father and uncle. None of the official authorities of the Republic of Serbia asked for them. It is incomprehensible that the citizens of one state, they were citizens of Serbia who had no war, could be taken into the night without the authorities looking for them at all. Right after the father and uncle were taken, we spoke to the police in Shid, but they denied that they were there. They didn't even let us come to the police station anymore. We couldn't even file criminal charges because they wouldn't let us enter the station at all. We later filed a criminal complaint with the court. She was rejected, however. and so on, so this case shows that we can't just focus on happening on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we had our Croats in Vojvodina and that's why it's good what my colleague Bulj proposes. In addition, what is important, so Mrs Abjanovic says that when they came to Croatia, to Osijek, they were faced with many problems and addressed the competent authorities regarding the assistance of the investigation in the Republic of Croatia, but that there was no concrete assistance. He says we were on our own. From the Justice Department, they addressed ours in 2004 and 2005, with their case of the Serbian Ministry of Justice, but they then refused any co-operation. After that, any interest in the case has ceased. After 28 years of unsuccessful search and poor interest of official bodies, says Mrs. Abjanovic, it seems to me that my father was right. And why does he say he was right? Because in the summer of 1991 he said at one of the joint gatherings I will give my life for Croatia, and that will not be known in Croatia. So because the man was one of the prominent Croatian leaders in Vojvodina, and disappeared, no one about this man, here in the Croatian Parliament knows, and we know about some of the victims that happened and that shouldn't have happened, the Serbian victims in Croatia, we know the names of these people, but we know nothing about this man and his brother. And what my colleague Bulj is proposing is right and right. We also believe that financial penalties should be increased in the event of the hiding of certain information. Why? So, because we have a situation where for certain violations of the Labour Act, responsible natural persons are punished with a minimum penalty of 7 thousand kuna, and here to avoid the necessary help in solving the missing persons' cases in the Homeland War, the government proposes a lower penalty than that, a minimum of five thousand kuna. And we will suggest that this punishment, that the punishment be greater, means there are several more amendments that have been proposed by families, families of the missing and what I said to the minister, he says there is the possibility of a penitentiary to point out where the victims are, but we have one concrete case, following a final verdict on the murder of a person whose remains have not been found, the situation Marin Kusic of Sotina, so apparently there are no mechanisms and legal ways for witnesses from Serbia to come to show the place of his execution because the person who killed him was legally convicted in Serbia. So it's absurd that the state is satisfied with the verdict made in Serbia and is not interested in finding the body of our man who was killed in the Homeland War and who disappeared. So we can't deal with such things, so I'm talking about concrete things here, concrete cases, concrete human fates, it's been very difficult for me while I've read this address to Mrs. Abjanovic, and I just think that we all have to do more, we welcome every effort, and the Minister, and the Ministry in this direction, but what my colleague Bulj, our Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, our government is breaking its current decision. It does not call upon the Committee which must convene four times a year, and now our minister, here today will decide whether she is going to the secretary of the Council of Europe, and here violates the laws and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does the opposite, I argue responsibly if it does not call it to work contrary to Croatian interests, the interests of these people, the interests of Croatian victims. And there is no evil on our part, we have called upon the Government to explain to us why the Committee does not call, if there is no need for the Committee, so stop it, don't bring your minister in a position to violate a valid Government decision, but obviously there is some game behind it, I don't know what kind of game and what it is like, but I think that all together, and we will support every effort, and I think we should also support this law with all the shortcomings, every effort that goes in the direction of finding, as my colleague Bulj, said to any of our men.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145195	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145196	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a point that has one of its specific weights as an open wound that can't heal for more than 24 years and longer for some, and probably won't, because it might be too optimistic to expect us to find all the missing, all the ones we're looking for, but we can't give up, and we can't give up and there's no right to give up the state as long as the last person we're looking for is not found. Their finding, identifying and burying is our human humanitarian obligation, and it's good, and it needs to be legal. It must be realized that it is a little strange that after 24 years of war we are discussing the adoption of a law governing the state's treatment of missing persons, although all these 24 years we are actually dealing with the missing. This job just because there was no law did not stand, on the contrary we could conclude that most of the work was actually done without the Law. The law should be a single legal framework in which we should define the concepts, procedures, rules and rights in one place, in fact, from the practice we had so far without the law. We heard from the minister in the opening statement and some statistics, I'm going to remind you of some information from the International Red Cross that I have since February of this year, which says that the total number of missing reported to the International Red Cross for the entire former SFRY area is terrifying 34,999. When it comes to the Republic of Croatia alone, the figure is about 6,500, out of those 6.5 thousand almost 4.5 thousand closed, it is almost 70%. One part of those individuals who were missing thank God were found alive and that is, all the statistics and data that the International Red Cross has. So, what's left of the International Red Cross data refers to the Republic of Croatia are figures that are somewhat different from the data that the minister himself presented. Some 2,000 cases have been opened according to the International Red Cross. The difference between some and the reasons for the difference may be established by professionals, what is important to say is that we must not stop looking for those persons. It would like to note in its debate what I would really like to mention in this debate, in these figures that I have presented and the minister and the missing citizens of Serbian nationality, there are nearly 50% of them. Just 10 days ago, the remains of 11 victims of Serbian nationality were identified, according to post-mortem remains exhumed in Gornji Selište, Petrinja, Glini, Shasha, Sibenik, Vrbovljani, Vodotec, Gracac and Vukovar. It wasn't always like that, they didn't contain all the victims, and the figures were related in 2011 or 2012, and it's good to see that. That one list, that no one is discriminated against because of their nationality, was discriminated against or abandoned because of their nationality. And I don't think anyone should be discriminated or abandoned and given their citizenship because everyone has the right to be found and buried. I am not sure how well the law covers this part or covers the search of those who are not Croatian citizens and who did not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and it is important to look for them as well. And that's the key to this job. To do this successfully and successfully complete this job requires co-operation, it is necessary to co-operate with BiH and Serbia. Cooperation, not blockage, is a key word here, and cooperation needs great patience and strong nerves, but it just doesn't work out differently. So far experience in this business and the results have shown it. As is important and co-operation with associations, families seeking their loved ones and it is important to participate in the search activities and associations that citizens, missing citizens of Serbian nationality. I would also like to point out that the International Day of Missing Persons on August 30th that declared the UN as the day of reminder of all the missing when we must actually remind ourselves and invite the competent authorities to search for missing persons and sensitize the public for this problem, that any information about the missing person is invaluable especially to families who have the right to know the fate of their loved ones. It is good and important that that day enters the law, but I also think it would be important to ratify the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from the Forced Loss signed in 2007, but here to this day, even though we have not ratified it in law. At the end of my presentation, I would like to repeat the main messages, we should continue to search for the missing, not discriminate against them, not by nationality, not by nationality. We must cooperate with other countries primarily with Serbia because only co-operation will produce results. And it would be time to ratify the International Convention because it is now regulating this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145197	Now we're going to move on to an individual debate and the first one is going to speak to the esteemed representative Angelko Stickak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145198	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers, and 24 years since the end of the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia has passed a single law that regulates the immaterial rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families to learn the fate of their missing members, to establish the procedure for the search for persons missing in the Homeland War and the mortally injured persons for whom the burial site is unknown and to prescribe the competent authorities for the implementation of this law. From the countries resulting from the collapse of the former SFRY are so far here. This area was regulated by BiH, the 2004 Missing Persons Act, and the Republic of Serbia, the 2012 Migration Management Act, and this name of the Migration Management Act literally turns out to be all those tanks, cannons, flashes that burned and destroyed RH migration. I come from the Varazdin County, I think it's known to everyone that just when the city's hero was most difficult to help, the varazdin police officers arrived on a total of 7 shifts, 1.121 police officer and the last 7 shifts that were sent to him remained surrounded in Vukovar. There were 185 police officers in the shift, 21 of them died, 5 of them missing, 66 were badly or easily wounded, and 119 ended up in Serbian concentration camps. Just today, and in memory of all the dead and missing, and of course to their colleagues the descent of Vukovar means the descent that connects the cities of friends Varazdin and Vukovar around noon should come to Vukovar. It is precisely this downhill that our fellow officers who defended Vukovar as a memorial, but also in that little symbolic way animated the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about the missing. Also another brief note that 9.11. The Roda Police Special Unit was on its way to the last attempt to breach Vukovar where 4 were killed and 1 disappeared. I therefore believe that it is necessary to adopt this law governing the collection and processing of data and archival buildings on missing persons, keeping records of missing persons, collecting knowledge of the fate of missing persons, and possible grave sites, exploring hidden mass individual tombs and exhumation of post-mortem remains, processing and identification of remains, and the funeral, co-operation with the competent authorities of other States and international organisations, and, of course, to prescribe which all bodies are obliged to cooperate or implement this law. Personally, in today's time, it is possible to record the era of digital society with satellites, TV cameras, and it is amazing that so many people are still missing and that surely somewhere in Belgrade in the archives of former KOS and National Security Services there are certain data that could indicate where missing persons are buried. I therefore believe that this law must be passed and taken to reveal the last tomb of our missing person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145199	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145200	Thank you very much. I agree with you, fellow Uncle, except in this section. This part where it is clear that there is complete documentation in Serbia and Ovčara and all the missing because KOS led it neatly and thoroughly. But the key problem, how is it possible for Vucic to come to Croatia and diplomacy has not saved all the data, means everything relevant because the president has been called on to get a list of everyone to the last letter of all our missing? However, it was a lie and a deception. So, diplomacy is the one that failed and that Vučić četnik, you know it was, comes and mocks in the Republic of Croatia with the victims of missing Croatian defenders, above all Croatian citizens, and mocks the people of Serbian nationality who were trying to go... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145201	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145202	So, my colleague Bulj, in my very introduction of the debate, stressed that 24 years have passed since the end of the Homeland War and that only now this law is being passed, which means that the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, Resore Minister Medved, President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, is doing everything possible to find the missing persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145203	The next replica is the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145204	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Uncle, we agree with you from HSS that this law should be passed and that we must not stop working and that we must do everything in our ability to find the missing persons, because we must put ourselves in the position of the families that have disappeared and that they can light a candle and put flowers on. But the fact that we've done too little is not just enough law and cooperation with international bodies. It is also an opportunity to invite all those currently living in Croatia to learn where Croatian defenders and civilian victims are buried to give this information. And we have also missed as a member of the European Union to put additional pressure on Serbia to exert stronger pressure through pre-accession contracts to get this information because it is certain that they have this information and they have not given it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145205	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145206	Thank you. Well, colleague, I absolutely agree with you that we need to do everything as a society to find the last missing person I've pointed out in my debate. How many of these documents there are I agree. I'm sure you agree that it's hard to assume who has them, but I'm sure that the services of the former state at least as far as Vukovar is concerned should have far more information than has been published in public so far. But I also repeat, after 24 years, for the first time in a single law, this problem is solved, which speaks enough of the government's direction and work that it really wants the last missing person to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145207	Next to have an individual debate, the respected representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145208	Dearly respected families of missing, murdered Croatian defenders, colleagues and colleagues, I will speak quickly because I know it will soon be interrupted due to the news. But I must warn that there are no people here most in need of this debate, which is the representative of the SDSS Milorad Pupovac with his colleague, because my debate will concern them and their roles in the Homeland War. But I'll start with the subject. The courteous Germany has passed a denanciation since World War II. It has passed the past where each individual citizen's role in his role and the crimes he may have committed in World War II has been established, and according to what knowledge they had, these same citizens have been adequately rewarded or punished in that polite German society. In Croatian society, a certain category of Croatian citizens have not been able to deal with the past, nor have they been responsible for what they have done, especially for what they know, and what Article 53, which is suggested by a colleague, Prelec, and also by my colleague Bulj, and I will look back on that same article. In fact, 15 days ago, in the Police Department, I filed one application against the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Milorad Pupovac, who called himself a war criminal, who was also a former member of his Party, who sat in the Croatian Parliament for war crimes, who also proved his innocence in court, but thanks to what I also learned about our judiciary and justice, I understand that he was released, in addition to many and others who were never charged, and did not answer for the command responsibility that applies only to Croatian defenders, Croatian commanders, and certainly not to the other side. A courteous Europe that should belong to Serbia in future time, as well, headed by Alexander Vukic, who we know from the '90s and his role. This courteous Europe in which there is no place of hatred, intolerance, the historical excellency of crime against some people, the excelling of certain signs, and we all know well what we went through in the Homeland War, that they were killed, disappeared, raped Croatian citizens and non-Serbs of the same state, nations, of one of those same last names that went back to the crime scene and did it again, and you never faced the past to look the bar in our eyes in this Assembly, to look at ourselves as colleagues and to ask Milorad what else you know, and you didn't say anything because you never told anyone, and what you said you lied about, and you lied to Slavko Degorcija that Dr. Schreter needed to treat the victims because you didn't have a doctor. The new indictment will be due to, in accordance with Article 53, at least 20 thousand kuna, a natural person who, in accordance with Article 15 of this Act, does not provide the Ministry with all the information and documentation available to solve the cases of persons missing in the Homeland War and the people killed in the Homeland War. Therefore, in order for me not to be punished, I will immediately access the same way in a way that I will disclose the data I have come to in my private investigation as the institutions are somewhat slowed down and are slowed down with this part of the circle. So, on 11 June 2018, I tabled a question to the Minister of Justice regarding the role of doctor, in fact Milorad Popovec, in the release of Dr Schreter. In the book of Slavka Degorcija, it wasn't in vain, it says it was August 18, '91. years of interception and capture made in the area of Butche and Kuson, Dr. Schreter, where he was imprisoned, where he eventually went rogue. He says, however, one day there was some hope in his salvation, in the cabinet of Slavko Degorcija Milorad Pupovac came with an offer that he participated in the release of Dr. Schreter, that he would personally go to occupied territory and meet with those who had imprisoned Dr. Schreter, and that was Milan Pavić, Vesmar and the rest of the team, and he went there, that at the end of the Degorcija said I was no longer sure whether they had been in the past one or two days, coming to Pupovac, allegedly from Pacrac, and his first words were, you did the job, and now I didn't, why?, don't give him because they needed him as a doctor. It's also in the book of Slavko Degorcija. Furthermore, Mr. Pupovac's role was this, in the middle of the ninth month of '91. During the time Šreter was in the hands of the Chetnik troops on Butac, a secret meeting was held on the Sašić initiative in Čikotska Recaj where Pupovac Milorad was a guest, and they participated next to them, Djakula Veljko, Pavić Branko, Vukelić Veljko, Vesmar Jovo, Petkovic and others. Who's Pavić Branko? Branko Pavic is a former police officer from Pakrac where he was deputy commander of Jova Vesmar, and one of those who organised the infamous SAO Krajina militia and the Buče camp, against which the Association of Croatian Military Disabilities of Homeland War Pakrac filed criminal charges for war crimes. 21 missing Croatian defenders are headed to the same camp in Butchje. Mr. Milorad, you are gone, and you are spoken of, it would be nice for someone to listen to you in this Croatia free of what you may or may not know, so that the Croatian people will once in writing receive this statement, not the unmistakable calling of Croatia for known and unknown crimes since World War II and beyond. You could do a lot more, but I'll be brief because time doesn't allow me, and there's a lot of material. Tens of thousands of people have passed through Velepromet's hangars, says the crown at the site of the accident was laid by the spouses Kata and Mate Gombovic, former prisoners whose son Mirko was also in hangars where he lost every lead, but there is a lead. The command of the unit of Negoslavci, it is a village from which our colleague Dragana may not be here, a confirmation confirming that Crevac Nikola Marko is authorized by that command to take over the prisoners and that Gombović Mirka and Martinović Zlatka by Velepromet Vukovar, signed by Vukasin Šushkocanin. So it's known about two missing persons, and I have to find out from the documents from The Hague that probably both our judiciary and the DORH own, and they can come to that. If I can't, let them ask me and those who sent it to me in the mail. In order for the absurd to be even greater, the same Marko Crevar from Negoslavec, who performs two Croatian defenders, has been charged in Serbia with war crimes against MK and DG prisoners who were captured as former members of the National Guard Assembly's reserve assembly on November 18th. These are not members of the National Guard Assembly, but of the police, the police of Croatia, who at the time worked in Vukovar. It's about Dubravk Ironovic who survived his torture. And this same Crevar has been accused in Serbia of beating, and certainly not for these two he pulled out of Velepromet. Those who hear of them. Those who are interested in them, and as the hypocrite of politics and the Croatian judiciary are known, there is no bottom, so what I said will be forgotten as well as long before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145209	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Culey, you've described some of the events from the papal battlefield. You have well defined who are the organizers of the rebellion, who are responsible for the establishment of the Buče camp, for the establishment of the SAO militia and who are responsible for the death, etc. Šretera but 21 Croatian defenders and police officers. Veljko Djakula, the infamous man who walks freely with the Croatians, who defies every anniversary of Kuson, this man who has not been conducted in an investigative prison so far to discover where the bodies of 21 men and others are. Schretter. I spoke several times and was invited to the State's Attorney's Office as well as to the court in Bjelovar to tell me where I got the information about these events personally. I said I personally participated in the defense there, but that all the information they have in... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145211	The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145212	My colleague Djakic, it is clear to me that you are invited to talk as I was invited to the DORH to talk when I asked two parliamentary questions. One question I asked against Milorad Pupovac has not been answered for a year. And this second one hasn't even been a few months I've been invited to talk to the DORH to explain the role of my whereabouts in a case of known crimes against Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145213	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145214	Thank you very much. My colleague Culey, you've brought some facts. But you're with me on the Defence Committee. For veterans. How do you comment on the foreign minister, who is the head of the Committee, a key person who should follow Serbia in the accession of the 23rd and 24th chapters of accession to the European Union who does not respond to our Committee, to our Committee, which is a business obligation? The Rules of Procedure are at the level of the law. She's obliged to say what's going on because diplomacy is the one that needs to get to the missing person's list to the last letter. And how do you comment on the arrival of Aleksandar Vukic in the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic invites him, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs absolutely does nothing about the list of missing, how do you comment on the arrival of the man who was hoarding and this is the Chetnik Alexander Vukic without any excuse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145215	The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145216	They fought, there were wars, and war would be possible for them to believe that. And at the end of every war that always aims at peace, the leaders must find and discuss peace, but also terms of peace. And under the conditions of peace, it would certainly be a question of war damage and damages, so I hope that sometimes someone in Croatia will ask a question of war damage and damage to any representative, and especially to Vukic when he comes to Croatia to pay for this war damage and damage to those who are the greatest organizers... after World War II, which is only the Croatian people who were persecuted just because they did not finish the 45th thing they started.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145217	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this law is the necessity and need that is ahead of us and is talking about all segments of how to improve and how to define the search for missing persons. I believe that all the arguments we have used so far to obtain credible data from the Republic of Serbia as well as from Bosnia and Herzegovina all agreements, as well as all inter-state co-operation between judicial authorities, state attorneys, as well as the highest state authorities and presidents, have actually not yielded sufficient fruit. And the necessity of this law is that, in the future, we could seek and find our missing people from the Homeland War, who were probably killed, executed and buried in a large-serb aggression. We heard through our discussions why the law was passed. However, we have asked some questions that have been unexplained to us, which is how much information has been collected so far and how much credible information has been paid by our institutions. Therefore, by amendment to this Law of the War Veterans Committee, we have made it possible for the Ministry of the Croatian Defence to be what will be evaluated and to determine how much of the reward will be paid to anyone who has been properly informed of our missing persons by the Ministry of the Croatian Defence in order to discover and honorably bury the remains of our defenders as well as all those wanted. I believe that this will contribute even stronger and faster work and discovery, and I hope that finally all those in the Republic of Serbia will come to their senses and take a new step to help discover, given that we believe that they have credible data in their services that are irrelevant to the location of the bodies of all our missing. We also believe that if it did not happen that Serbia would never complete Chapter 23 and Chapter 24 as the most prominent chapters in this regard of missing persons' search. I believe it's all coming through. The special provisions which have been included in the Commission and which have been accepted, as far as missing persons are concerned, are under the watchful monitoring of the ministry on which, as chairman of the Committee, I have received a report and I thank you for assessing that Serbia is not cooperating, that it is not working on that plan that would close their chapters. Therefore, we can clearly tell them, Serbia does not cooperate, but neither do our state law enforcement that could reveal a lot in interstate co-operation. I believe that this way of satisfaction or reward for those who would inform where the remains of the dead or the bodies of our friends killed would contribute to a faster way of finding out. The necessity and need of state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia as well as the police of the Republic of Croatia is that it processes all those responsible for crimes to bring them to justice and that, through the processing of them themselves, even through polygraph research, they come to the truth they hide and they do not want to make it clear that they would expose all the cemeteries that their members actually committed. I believe that not enough force has been used, that many times the law that speaks of ablation or forgiveness has been used where it shouldn't have been. This concerns first of all Veljka Djakula in Pakrac as the organizer of the rebellion, as the organizer of the attack on the police station, as the organizer of the camp in Bučje, as the organizer of the Krajina militia and as the responsible person for the death of Dr Schreter, as well as the death of 21 defenders who were imprisoned in the Buče camp. I don't know how the state's attorney's office is going to describe that he's abolized or how he's going to describe and answer me that he's being pardoned, the one who's the organizer of the rebellion, the one who ordered the organization of the Camp of Buče, the one who knows probably where the bodies are. In order to eliminate this, he should probably be in a prison of investigation and should deal with those who know how to get information from such individuals. As long as it is not so we cannot be sure that our judicial authorities and bodies are well interpreted by the Law of Forgiveness and Abolition or interpreting it in part, so they allow war criminals to walk the Republic of Croatia carefreely while our parents and relatives die without knowing where their bodies and their loved ones are. It's the sad thing that makes me think that we need to work harder to force all those who know where the bodies are to discover those dark secrets because I believe they're hiding them just because they don't spread and responsibility for the death of all those people that individuals are certainly carrying. The responsibility in cases of murder, robbery, rape, execution, body transfer and everything that has happened in the Homeland War is such a dark and painful topic that lives with, above all, with parents and relatives imprisoned and missing, which Croatian defenders as their comrades also follow throughout their lives and which is necessary and necessary to be enlightened in as large a number as they have disappeared after II. World War I. Today, when they are discovered by your department for the missing 100's and 100's of the bodies executed for the robbery of property taken down by former secretaries and party leaders is the horror that testifies to what happened after II. the world war in Zagreb, the surrounding area, throughout Croatia and throughout the former Yugoslavia. These horrors have been repeated since here and during the Homeland War in occupied areas, they have repeated after the Homeland War that not enough investigations of the crimes committed but Croatian defenders are subject to prosecution under command responsibility, by participation in every detail that can be used against them are being tried and prosecuted in our country of Croatia. While that is not the case for the other side, forgiveness is widely applied to the aggressors and rebels, so for those who committed the worst crime in Borovo Sela, Vukovar in all the Ovcara sites, many times are punished or so mild and so tolerated or in the absence of evidence they are actually freed. And these are the horrors that follow us, so this law final law on persons missing in the Homeland War we hope and believe will improve status, and what some colleagues are talking about, how we will know who this.../incomprehensible/.... In the Memorial documentation centre of the Homeland War, data were collected in the freed area of western Slavonia, trucks untied, processed, archived. They include orders to record and reports submitted by certain commanders in those areas, all of which are visible. Today, individuals live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and they are the ones who know what they did, and they and their members therefore have the responsibility described in Article 53 of this Law. I believe and hope that still state bodies, especially The war crimes departments are the ones who will comb the archives and apply this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145219	Thank you. Before continuing, we welcome the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Great National Assembly of Turkey to the diplomatic gallery. And now we have two replicas on display. [[Applause.]] She is the first respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145220	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, of course, it is good to pass a special law that regulates the question of missing persons, especially because this issue remains the most difficult issue that is not sufficiently resolved with this kind of a detour after the end of the Homeland War, and I believe that we all need to be in the country together, and in cooperation with the international community to do everything possible to solve this issue as much as possible. Every day, people die more and more, not just family members who seek their missing, but witnesses who are potential, so that evidence in evidence will be increasingly difficult to come by. So I think that there is a need to make this question as soon as possible and as far as possible. I think it's in this law, good and what has enabled a wider range of applicants to file proceedings. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145221	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145222	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for your replica. Well, it's clear to all of us that we've been searching too long for our missing and that there's too little information. There's a lot of manipulation, a lot of everything that's been going through the families that have been missing in the past when they want good, wanting to do well to work together between Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, to find out as much as possible, I would also say the insolence of the other side and the humiliation and no success. This is what bothers us and creates new doubts that they do not really want any cooperation, nor do they want to meet the conditions imposed on them by the European Commission. No prisoners, no missing, no war damage. There is no European way without bilateral relations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145223	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative Steve Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145224	Comrade Djakic, this is not Vietnam, Cambodia so that the missing disappears, this is a century of technique, digitization, information and everything that is available to us. And we all know everything even the last woman in the last village, knows everything about her village and what's going on, but there's no responsibility. If someone had been responsible for what he did, if there were commanding responsibilities for war crimes perpetrators then Radenko Allavana would not have been released from the Supreme Court of Croatia in absentia and tampered with Belgrade but would have been detained for crimes against 83 Serbs in Borov Selo at the primary school of Bozidar Maslaric. 83 No Serbs were killed, and he was walking, Radenko Alavanja freed from the Supreme Court, and I was warned not to insult the law-abiding for crimes The defendants. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145225	The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145226	Thank you very much. Comrade Culey, you have mentioned many times, and I am all the nebulises that occur in the decisions of the highest judicial authorities. It's simply incomprehensible that with so much evidence, a witness and everything else, someone gets released. It is incomprehensible that Veljko Djakula, along with everything he has organized, ordered, did a free walk in Pakrac. I can't understand that. I don't know who we insult when we speak and the judgments have the ability to revise, and that's why we're here as advocates to tell the truth about these events since we're also part of the Homeland War that we've suffered. We believe that we recognize so best, and time has come to forgive, let the law be equal for all, no matter what national minority, without what man's name is, No matter what function he was in, he must be punished if he committed a war crime. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145227	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, like when we discussed the previous proposal of this law, first congratulated Mr. Medved and his team and assistant Sucic and others at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence on the work done, on having finally received here a consistent proposal of the Law on Missing in the Homeland War, it is something that all the closest ones who have disappeared deserve, but itself our political community, i.e. Croatia. Basically, what is written in Article 3 of this bill, and I quote, that the search for persons missing in the Homeland War and postmortem remains, mortally, remains of mortally injured persons in the Homeland War, which is unknown to the place of burial, is now the most important thing I will say, is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me a fundamental thing, a fundamental provision in this law, and indeed Croatia must do everything in its power, I mean, of course, the Croatian executive power, of the Croatian government, of the Croatian Ministry of Defence in order to resolve the issue of the missing. When we talk about resolving missing persons, we do everything in our power when it comes to the opportunities we have for the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to state, the territories of neighbouring countries are already very complicated, and we have as we know these major problems and obstacles in cooperation with neighbouring Republic of Serbia. We have signed protocols with two countries, with two countries, specifically with BiH and Montenegro, with Serbia not having such a mechanism, we regret it, and we are here once again very clearly, and for this, because of the lack of an existing mechanism of co-operation and because unfortunately we do not have enough maturity or courage or political will in Serbia to do so, we were forced three years ago under Chapter 23, which concerns the judiciary and I am stressing fundamental rights, and the issue of missing is fundamental right, human law, we have established Serbia's commitment to co-operate with its neighbours in this case with Croatia. So, due to the lack of a bilateral co-operation mechanism, formalised, we have installed the EU as the leader in Serbia's negotiating framework with the EU a commitment to co-operate on this plan, in search of the missing. And here's what we're talking about. A transitional criterion, it's not even what's called. the final criterion, so without meeting this criterion, there is no progress on the way to the EU. Very clear, it is now not only a matter of the Republic of Croatia, it is not a matter of the European Commission to fill my friend, colleague Josip Djakic, because with committees he negotiates on behalf of the member states, it was, it is a fruit of the work of the then Croatian government and political will in Croatia to be a criterion for all EU member states. So, without meeting this criteria, there is no progress on the road to EU membership and any Croatian government cannot step down from that, not only the Croatian government, any EU Member State cannot step down from that because it is written black on white in the negotiating framework, specifically for Chapter 23 and Chapter 24. So that's where things are very clear. Without it, there will be no progress without it. I saw yesterday that Mr. President Vucic, with one card, spoke to the Croatian public, congratulated Statehood Day, I am pleased, I also read that he also welcomes or expects to intensify dialogue of mutual interest and it was also nice to read, congratulated by both Statehood Day and neighbouring Slovenia, but it is not enough to come to Croatia and bring some books and present them, under quotes to the presidents of the Republic when it comes to the missing, it is not enough. We here in Croatia expect Serbia to be on the agenda cooperative. I would like, I repeat, to wish it were a matter of insight in Serbia, it is a fundamental right, a human right, but as my colleague Djakic said, for the second time I will quote it, and insight, and no co-operation, and if it does not, then in some other way, we will have a foothold in this negotiating framework and there is simply no deviation. But that is not all and I will say again what I said a few weeks ago here in the Croatian Parliament this is only the first step, for me personally this is only the first step, the next step I expect is the Law on Croatian Campers, on the victims of war. I expect the Republic of Croatia, the government, to provide full organised support to all those who have been under quotes in the camps in Serbia during the Homeland War, to resolve the issue of compensation for these people. And again and here we put it, a fellow Bear was also in the government then, and we built it into Serbia's negotiating framework when it comes to EU membership, means that war victims must be allowed access to justice. There is no deviation from that for anyone, in Croatia, for any Croatian government it must be worth it and it will be worth it. The Republic of Croatia, its executive bodies must provide full support, of course and judicial bodies to all those and closest to those who are victims of war. In particular, which spent some time in camps in neighbouring Serbia. We want to have normal neighbourly relations with Serbia, but the issue of the legacy of war needs to be resolved. If that doesn't happen, it's been dragging on for decades. Now I read a few weeks ago that Greece has claims against Germany over the German 3 troops' raid. Reich in Greece during 2nd The World War 2019, according to the Greeks, was not resolved. We have the same thing in Poland. The Germans have a different view, however, the Poles came out with their claims against Germany and the reparation. What do I mean by that? If we want to find a solution as soon as possible for the missing, for the campers, for the victims of the war, we have to solve it with neighbouring Serbia because of the interests of this generation and future generations. It is in the interest, after all, not only of Croatia, but also of Serbia. If we want to cooperate normally, we need to be very clear here and we need to resolve this issue. How many more open wounds are there, when it's just about II. Holy shit. This was not to be discussed openly in the Croatian society and other societies in the area of the former Yugoslavia and other republics of the former Yugoslavia. So, we... We need to show seriousness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am happy that we have a minister in the government, Mr. Bear, who is the Croatian defender himself, who has made a huge step when it comes to the rights and sensibility of the defence population that show also one, a sensible engagement which is amazing when it comes to missing people and I hope warmly and expect that such a legal proposal, the bill will very soon appear in this honorable home when it comes to the victims of war, the campers, we owe it to them, and there is no left, right, and it must not be left, right. The victim is a victim, no matter where the victim is presently a stranger or his closest, it is about people, members of the Croatian political community of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145229	Thank you. We've got more replicas. Let's move in line, he is the first respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Kovac, you've defined everything well. I can only say that Minister Medved, with his team in the ministry and with his assistant, but also with the task force he formed, which represented very captive and missing, formed this law which clearly speaks about all the details and I hope that all articles and relationships of needs and possibilities have been well balanced there. But I also remember you as foreign minister, when we met with defence organisations, we met with special criteria and criteria which are primarily missing persons who have accepted both the EU Commission and Serbia as special criteria and cannot without it complete the negotiations in chapters 23 and 24, but I believe that this can also stop further negotiations in all chapters if but in 3 years it's not... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145231	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145232	It's not nice to praise ourselves, we won't do it. I'll just say that we are then and I'm glad that Minister Medved continues this course, we have had direct contact in these foreign affairs with the Croatian defenders, of course, by means of the Croatian Defence Minister himself, Mr. Bear. From this symbiosis, of course, these criteria for Serbia's negotiating framework have been outlined, I repeat, these are fundamental rights. And once again, I'm going to say very clearly in HS. Without meeting these criteria, there is no progress on the road to the EU. Therefore, I am convinced that Serbia's colleagues are of the highest, highest interest and will also begin to meet these criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145233	The next replica is the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145234	Comrade Kovac, you have spoken the key word, maturity and courage. Whether we miss it is precisely to refer such a request to Serbia at this crucial moment for our missing. So how is it possible that dr. Shreter and our individual defenders, in particular, Igor Zalar, who comes from Požega-Slavon County, who also doesn't know where he is or what he is, not to ask exactly that Djakul who commanded the camp, who gave the order to blow up the same such camp before our defenders came to the camp itself, that we don't even know today where our people went missing. Well, it's really a shame and this is a crucial moment that just when Serbia is now conducting EU accession negotiations, it has just given a reply to our missing defenders, parents, so that they can simply properly bury their defenders. So I'm asking myself a question, is it possible, and we know who was there, who was in charge, and that the same people don't give you answers to those key questions that we... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145235	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145236	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lucic, I absolutely agree with you, and I repeat another time here. On this plan in Croatia in Parliament we must be unique when it comes to missing persons, when it comes to campers there is no and there must be no partying. And on that plan, I'm glad we're free of some complexes, that we're free of these complexes. ... 15 years ago, my colleague Djakic experienced me when it came to working in the Croatian Parliament, we did not talk like this in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the time has come for us to talk like this. Well, even with colleagues from other parties, we have on the agenda a largely consensus that we will... We have to resolve this issue of missing, campers, victims of a war without complexes, and a colleague in Serbia had to know that there would be no deviations in Croatia and there should be no deviations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145237	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145238	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Kovac, we all agree here that the problem of the missing can only be solved with the help of Serbia. We're all stressing that. However, the fact that nothing is happening. Serbia is not cooperating. I would, I mentioned in my speech that the president met with President Vukic in 2016, 2018, and nothing happened. We are talking here and we can agree on both you on the right and we on the left but we need to do something but the fact that Serbia is doing nothing. The fact that the president didn't do anything, the fact that the government didn't do anything. So what's the problem? Is the problem in insufficient determination, indecision, the Prime Minister and the president's determination? Here's what we on the left-hand side are going to do everything we can to force Serbia to do something concrete and not some kind of protocol that doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145239	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145240	I'm glad there's also a colleague in the SDP who's had an evaluation. I know that in 2015, a minister in the government was in favour that some criteria were introduced in the negotiations in Chapter 23. But in the end, it did not happen because the person who ran the resort, the foreign affairs were not for it. In the meantime, I'm saying I'm evaluating, but I'm glad. And as for us here in the Croatian Parliament, you heard both fellow Tudjman and others and Mr Culej, from the Committee on Croatian War Veterans, a very clear attitude and expectation when it comes to the Croatian Government. So there is no deviation, and we will deal with Serbia because Serbia will enter the dead end if it does not cooperate on that plan. He's going into a dead end. And I don't want them to, but it's gonna have to happen if they don't cooperate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145241	The next replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145242	Thank you. My colleague Kovač, I agree with your assessment that ever since the Croatian Defence Secretary's portfolio, a major step has been made, indeed. I will remind all those present that a comprehensive Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and their families has been passed just in his term. Today, 24 years after the end of the war, we are discussing for the first time a single law on persons missing in the Homeland War. The Croatian Memorial documentation centre then lists all those killed in the Homeland War. So here, just in the mandate of Minister Medveda, a major step has been made after the suffering of the defensive victims' population. But I also look forward to this debate of yours regarding the conditions Serbia must meet when entering the EU. And I absolutely agree with you that their funeral is literally their human rights. And when it comes to human rights, every country must fulfill... conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145243	Thank you for your respectful response to Agent Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145244	Just a little bit about Minister Bear. Look when you are Croatian Defence Minister, you are fighting for Croatian defenders, not Croatian defenders. When you're Minister of Finance, you fight for the Croatian budget, for the budget. And it's a recipe if I may say so so far the successful work of Minister Bear. You work for Croatian defenders, you don't work against or against them, I think about defenders. Now I'm not going to some personal stuff here, when it comes to predecessors. There are mechanisms in Croatia, some mechanisms are missing, it is crucial that we do not move without co-operation with Serbia and that co-operation with Serbia, I repeat, if it does not go well, it will go very clearly to the Croatian state's perseverance. We'll have to deal with this issue with Serbia, we'll handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145245	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Culei. You were up, okay. Then there will be the next replica of the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145246	Thank you very much. Let us remember only 15 years ago that from Brussels the obstacles to Croatia came for the opening of chapters and for the closure of chapters 23. And we were simply forced to pass this law because if the same criteria for Serbia were then Croatia should not pass this law. However, they are obviously not the same criteria. And that's why we in Croatia need to be unique about this topic. It's unique that we don't leave our children with what unfortunately happened to the '45 legacy. A year. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, remember the conditions set for Croatia to open negotiations, to open chapters, to close chapters 23. Why today are not exactly equal criteria for Serbia as well. Croatia should not intervene, but it is obvious that some still have the power to run from certain things. And on the other hand, if they'd given us all this information, they'd have admitted it directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145247	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145248	I'm sure things will change on that plan. On what grounds do I conclude? On the basis of what we have seen, when it comes to campers that a single deal has already occurred with one person who has sued Serbia with a private lawsuit for under quotes, his stay in Serbia. So, there's a shift going on, in Montenegro we saw there's an arrangement that this is agreed on at country level. So if this could be resolved by Montenegro negotiating membership then Serbia will have to solve it, it is painful things, it does not go overnight, it is related to the country's pride and interpretation of history. But I repeat here it will happen if you don't. then for members of the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145249	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be co-workers of Zekanovic, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. So the next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145250	Thank you very much. We have a very important law ahead of us. It's basically a much more important exercise. We have been talking all day about the law, everything that regulates this Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, and of course that law is acceptable. He defined certain things that could have been defined by regulations, but let this at strength level, at the level of force legally, but we have a number of questions that I have to ask myself, especially after the presentation of our colleagues here now, Mr Kovac, I am sorry he didn't answer the question, which is why it was open at all on 23, 24. The chapter, because Serbia absolutely did not deserve it from colleagues and colleagues. If we had opened Chapters 23 and 24, we had to arrest all our generals, devalue the Homeland War, those who were in this House, who were ministers, arrest, locate, transfer, let alone say we need to solve our missing and dead. Is this the relationship between what Vukic and his party are together in the coalition with the ruling party in the European People's Party, I really don't know, but when I look at it only when there was a protest in Vukovar when it came to the campers and the missing, the problem of calling Vukovar, then I was even more surprised by what people were in this Parliament then and who the defenders were calling on don't go to Vukovar to hear the cry of the victims of Vukovar, from the ministers, from the board president, I didn't know why. It wasn't a political question, it was the scream of those people, those missing people who were still here with us, campers from that area. It was not acceptable for me to hear these people except here what was the impression of a speech that would leave to the public either by Mr. Kovac's former minister or anyone else. I'm really going to say what I think a tribal here would say as in an individual debate on behalf of the club, I'm going to say the club's position, so here's a number of questions being asked. Here, my colleague Culej was talking about Dr. Sheter and my colleague Pupovac, and I've been asking this question countless times, and I've been asking if it was simply Mr. Degorcija asking, and I see that other colleagues of HDZ are asking that question, but right now he's a colleague of Pupovac, mostly with HDZ, right now. We're talking about current cooperation, whether it's the influence of this coalition that the law isn't called what was real, because we can't observe the law disappeared in the Homeland War. The Homeland War is the result of the great Serbian aggression and all those who were killed in the Homeland War either by our Croatian Army, a Croatian soldier who is trying to promote the truth about the Homeland War, the Ministry of Defence is making an effort to praise this direction, but if we are talking about the Homeland War, if we are talking about the missing cause is the VelcoSerb aggression. The Homeland War is the cause of the Velco-Serbian Chetnic aggression and the one when we speak in Croatia's entry into the EU and accession negotiations, we have all tribals, the one Sheksova, arrested, located, arrested, transferred, processed, everything. Whatever occurred to them, they did, they blocked us on all the issues, and that's the fact. But this is obviously not worth it for Serbia at the moment, they absolutely did not dare to open Chapters 23 and 24. For what? Because our diplomacy is not driven by people who protect interests, and I would like to ask my colleagues from the board, here is a colleague and Djakic and a colleague of Culej, and I don't know who else here on the Stričak board seems to me, who else is on the board, to confirm whether it was a unanimous conclusion by the board of Rules, where it is the power of the law, that the minister should come and bring her reports publicly, not a report on the monitoring of Serbia's EU accession in the opening of 23rd and 24th negotiations. And I'm glad that Mr. Kovac came back, only for one question, because during the government when he was a minister, a monitoring committee was established for Serbia on 23rd and 24th. Chapter of EU accession. As Minister of Two Meetings, you had an obligation to have four meetings and one report a year. However, in 2017 and 2018 it was also required to give to the presidents once a year. I'm the President, the Honorable Representative Kovac asked if she sent, a commitment from your government, if the current minister respected that obligation, not and we as a committee can't get an answer to that question at all. Because simply if Serbia doesn't have the will, if we don't have the political force, if we don't have diplomacy, it can't all be done by the Secretary of Defense with all the best will, with all the laws that will be inconclusive, if they don't cooperate, because this law defines co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the state bodies, the DORH, if they don't ensure it with all the efforts and assistants of Sucic and the Minister of Defence and all the bodies, we simply won't get to our missing and dead, and the lists exist with Chetnik Vukic, they exist, everyone knows that. That's what the president said before he got this Vucic here who didn't apologize, who went to Glin, but was making speeches about this making fun of your coalition partner calling him Pupi, it was literally a mockery. It was literally a mockery of one man who was hoarding people of Serbian nationality at the borders of Greater Serbia, and he did not, in this way, without preparing diplomatic and diplomacy, I think that Mr. Kovac would confirm, without good preparation to receive the president of R. Serbia in Croatia, with him promising to give some lists, and he essentially brought the missing, until he brought up the last letter of preparation, diplomacy... It was not to be accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because literally, it's mocking the families of the missing, with the Homeland War, with everything the Homeland War has done, no matter what the victims are concerned, I think we must legally regulate bilateral relations and our missing citizens who are on that side and their citizens who are in the area of the Republic of Croatia. All of this needs to be regulated by law. But there is no cause of the missing is not the Homeland War. The country's war is sacred, the Homeland War is the result of large-serb Chetnic aggression. This is the consequence and in this law it is to be written, however, there is no mention of large-scale Serbian aggression in the whole law. Well, I don't think it's that much of the influence of your coalition partner, that there must be no big-serb aggression because it was a big-serb aggression, and the Homeland War is the consequence. Let's not defile the Homeland War, it turns out that it's the Homeland War that got somebody killed. No, the Homeland War was the response of the Croatian people to the great Serbian Chetnic aggression. The aggression caused by Slobodan Milosevic, who caused Seselj, caused by Vukic, who is now president and all who follow it. Therefore, I believe that this is a serious issue, I believe that the Ministry of Defence and you assistants are working in accordance with your capabilities, but the fact that these bodies that we have, and without diplomacy, are mainly without diplomacy, without DORH, because of these things that we have defined, if the foreign minister does not want us, the board, the business force of the law, to give answers after the unanimous conclusion that he gives us reports of Serbia's 23rd and 24th chapters, and the lists of missing persons in Belgrade, who are kept, who were promised when the president came to be adopted, I do believe, and if this law solves one missing, we have done a great thing, because of these families of the missing. We've done a huge thing, only to get rid of one, and surely the intention is to get rid of this law. However, I think that certain things within the law should be accepted, accepted, be reasonable, that these movements are as big as they are, they are movements and good will and the efforts of the Ministry of Defense have been made. However, without the cooperation of all the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, from the DORH, the MUP, and in particular from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which does not fulfil the obligations of the Government in which Mr Kovac and Tomislav Medved were, as defence minister, brought in, we have a commission which is established, which has certain obligations. I expect answers from these, that commission. But they don't respect this Parliament, they don't respect this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145251	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145252	Dear Representative Bulj. Co-operation with Serbia over imprisoned and missing Croats and Croatian defenders is not complete. Does Serbia have accurate information about the missing citizens of Croatia who are Serbian nationalities, and some live in Serbia or all of them are declaring themselves dead in the Homeland War. It was similar with the number of victims in Jasenovac, where they added the names of those who were alive or were killed elsewhere, not from the NDH system. Vucic, his party is a member of a group of European cracks. One part of the membership was aggressors, and some of the dukes, therefore, were the ideologists of the system of evil. Is this correct and does Europe have any other interests that arise when they are accepted into membership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145253	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145254	I consider myself an esteemed representative, and I sign from one word to the last word. They are simply not the same criteria or folk from my region, the arches for Serbia, as they were for Croatia, and Serbia was an aggressor. Serbia was an aggressor, and we were the victim. Our arches were disastrous, remember what had to be fulfilled in order for Croatia to join the EU. Close all generals, no matter what political option it was. All of it worth it, Homeland War, that was the first thing, we shouldn't have made any key decisions. And as for the census, that there are lists in Serbia that they are manipulating and that will never give us such diplomacy as is first received in the European People's Party, it is disastrous and that together the ruling party will be with the coup, in the popular party with Vucic's Chetnic Party. So right away in the beginning we went counterproductive Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145255	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145256	... I don't know if you heard me, pal Bull. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] There is one folk, dogs bark, and caravans pass and we easily speak here on the left and right where the key to success is and what should be done, which should be squeezed, R. Serbia, but none of it. The president is meeting with Vucic, she has done nothing, I say, again the government, it is in charge of both the government and the president and the president, but obviously nothing is happening, and we can talk here as much as we want, we can push away from all this together, but we know that the key is in HDZ, and these are colleagues over-recognizable and all the time saying that we need to squeeze R. Serbia, however, it will have to address both its Prime Minister and its president.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145257	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145258	I would agree that diplomacy here to jointly say that it must work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia regardless of which government is or who is headed by the party, headed by that government. Graduation should do business in the interest of Croatian people, in this case the interest of the families of the missing, in the interest of campers, rather than the position of campers to pay for the costs of the process by natural persons in Belgrade. We can't allow it as a state, diplomacy has to do the job, we can't, is it true that when Vukic came because he told us here colleagues and colleagues, from the Office of the President, that he would bring certain lists of our missing? Is it true? Did he bring it? It's not. Therefore, Croatia has the current power but does not benefit, which is why it should be asked by those who manage the foreign ministry and the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145259	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145260	Thank you. My colleague Bulj, well, in my debate, I stressed that, let's say, in 2012, the Republic of Serbia still resolved the Law on Migration Management this area means that the SDP government did not respond to it, and that was still the case in 2012. You have devoted much of your debate to diplomacy and relations with Serbia, and even today, all of our colleagues have pointed out by their discussions that it is impossible that no one knows about the fate of 1902 people, many colleagues have pointed out that there are safe archives in Belgrade somewhere but a question of who has them and in which width is missing. Now let's say I'm interested in whether you really think it is possible to run a search for the missing without cooperation with Serbia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145261	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145262	I'd just like a moment of coworker... so I will answer you back, how Croatia joined the EU, which criteria it had, means to locate, identify, arrest, process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything they gave us was done when he was trio at the head of Sanader, Mesic, Seks. It was a definition to join the EU, we are in the EU, we are equal, we can block Serbs on all issues rather than allow them to open up at all and go to negotiations in chapters 23 and 24. Croatia had to do everything regardless of what was the Homeland, the defence war, it had to literally prosecute Croatian generals, defenders, literally from Gotovina, Markac, all the generals, had to ić to The Hague, it was simply forced, it had to be and we are not allowed to be in a position when we are members and we have the right to block because diplomacy does not do its job. With all the good will of the minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145263	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145264	Comrade Bulj, I am particularly interested in the fact that I come from Požega-Slavon County, Camp Buče, which we have spoken of many times and the disappearance of our Dr. Schretter and all those defenders and, of course, the defenders who are here right now are calling, who are watching this transmission and can't be surprised that after all these years, the answer can't exactly be given by those who have ordered, who have issued orders in that same camp, so I think of the Serb side but I am also concerned about the relationship with the Republic of Croatia where the EU puts Serbia in a far different position than it was in Croatia. We remember how and how we went through EU accession, so here I am now asking whether Serbia will matt a different treatment and that we may never get to the truth because it will simply be made possible by the EU. We're all concerned about this situation together, and we should give answers as soon as possible because that's what our parents are expecting right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145265	Thank you. We now have the answer of the respected Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145266	Well, that's amazing, because Croatia is an EU member and was the only member there has been since II. svt. The war was waged by aggression. We have a diplomat's head, we have a diplomat who boasts, Mr. Plenkovic, the prime minister, who boasts of his diplomatic good rating, good relations with all the factors, which is why it's strange why the Republic of Serbia doesn't use it to force the Republic of Serbia to give all the lists of our missing and simply be a criterion. This is surprising, which is why our diplomacy gives way to the Republic of Serbia, I know that you are in the same party at European level, in the European People's Party, HDZ and Vucic's party, the front-page party in Serbia, because it is the assistant of Seselj but must simply protect our missing, there is no millimeter of Serbia until it gives the last list... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145267	Thank you. We will now go to the closing on behalf of the club of representatives, the first respected representative of Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145268	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with their assistant. In front of us is a very important law that sends a message and hope, which should return mainly to the families of the missing, however, as I have said that simply in the very name that should be changed because it is simply not the cause of these missing and dead Homeland War, the Homeland War is sacred, it is victorious, the Croatian soldier has won this victory, along with our people but is the cause of great Serb Chetnic aggression. The borders of Greater Serbia are essentially the cause of the Homeland War. I think we should ministers, I know that this law brings news that goes to the good, but we should think about it. I believe that all those you have listed here, other bodies other than your assistant and the bodies involved in the fight and the missing persons, will have to be included, simply, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which does not do its job because the head of the commission and the foreign and European integration ministers, Mrs. Pejcinović-Burić, who does not do his job, we are on the committee here to learn about it, unanimously brought to the Veterans Committee to come, to see if he meets the obligations of 2018 when you were minister, to see if Serbia respects pre-accession negotiations, and in particular this part of chapters 23 and 24. And, of course, when we see that the foreign ministry, when the minister, when the prime minister boasts from diplomacy, we have a prime minister from diplomacy, Plenkovic, when he boasts with excellent relations within the EU, that we cannot solve the problem with Serbia. To see Serbia through the fingers, while Croatia had to have huge problems at the time. There are also lists in Serbia. The wolf has them up to the last list, so he doesn't say where ours are missing and dead, he can't talk to him at all. And that's why it's competent diplomacy. So I repeat, with all the will of the minister who gives and the energy to solve this problem and with his assistant Sucic trying, diplomacy does not work in the interest of finding our missing from the Homeland War. This is a law humanitarian issue. This is about people and Serbian nationalities who were aggressors who had disappeared, this is about those who had disappeared in the area of so-called ". Insulated Krajina, that's what this is about, this is a humanitarian question, we all need to accept it, it's every man, I think it's about a man, let the families know. However, Serbia is the main culprit. He wasn't a Croatian soldier in Nis. ... documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have diplomacy, so we are ahead, we are a member of the EU that we are calling on. So why can't we force that wolf to boast... In the squares, he mocks us, Mr. Pupovac's water like, mocking Pupi, so we must not allow such a person who has been hoarding people of Serbian nationality on his neighbours, on the borders of Greater Serbia, to do slaughter, crimes, and we must not allow him to behave like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we Croatian people, who defended their country, when we were entering the EU, so remember what it was, what the pressures were. Well, let's remember. Let's stop for a minute and remember what happened. Persecution, arrest, locate, mud, and we and the Serbs as members of the EU allow his president to do as he pleases. And as the position of Croatia is much better. We have a prime minister who is a European diplomat of the world level, however, who is obviously more important to him in solving Ukrainian-Russian Crimea, in Crimea, than this problem. Well, here's the problem. This is our obligation, while we're alive to get rid of dead bones when they exhume to know where to put the flowers. It's a minimum for these people, which is why, Minister, I hope you'll have some of us to discuss some of our amendments with you. If not, everyone... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145269	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Djakic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the HDZ Club welcomes this law and its adoption in full text as well as the working group that worked on this draft law in association with the ministry has, praisefully, adopted this text of the law in all segments. And we only added to the War Veterans Committee what is necessary to give a fair reward to the one who gives legitimate information about the missing places, clearly puts it in this law, so that the Croatian Defence Ministry's regulation would regulate that award. We believe that you understand what diplomacy is and that you know how it is done, so many times the concessions made by President Tudjman when the Homeland War ended, that there was no diplomatic action, who knows how many more victims would have been in the east of our country, who knows how many missing and imprisoned even more and how many Croatian defenders would have died if there were no solution to peaceful reintegration of Podunov in the system of the Republic of Croatia. And so all the troubles and pains that arise in a more beautiful afterlife, which is ablation, forgiveness, and all that has been applied. Many times it has found its significance in the ability of the judicial authorities to challenge certain criminals under abolization or forgiveness, which absolutely should not have been. In this law it is said that, clearly, those who have information will be punished, and do not give them, and this can be read and come up with that information that will be used from those collected data in... which are clearly trapped in the Liberation Operations Flash, Storm, so that both records and reports and orders and notes in the command staff of those who commanded the rebel army in the Republic of Croatia are clearly seen, as well as units or units of JNA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that a good part of them is walking freely into the Republic of Croatia and that we will remove it in the coming period because enough time has passed to clearly define a legal provision which is an abolition, which is forgiveness and that none who committed war crimes can be obtained under such a definition and must be sanctioned and punished. I believe that we can clearly say that the rhetoric of individuals today who, calling everyone and everyone for inaction, for obstruction or anything would not lead in the previous order of the Republic of Croatia, to the EU, or NATO alliances, or to all European destinations, or today's elections for the EU secretary to be conducted in such a dictionary as some do in the Croatian Parliament. I believe you understand what politics is and what diplomacy is that it is another upgrade that must be seen together with everyone. But we're also aware at the HDZ Club that one snake from the same hole can't bite you twice and can't. This happened good and widespread cooperation and attempt to co-operate the Republic of Croatia by the president so that and by which body it was found it came to obstruction and I believe it will never happen to anyone again. No new meetings, I'm hoping on that diplomatic plan until there's concrete information on the missing persons on the table. There is no trust in meeting our Mrs. Alvir with the parents and relatives of the missing from their association with Serbian representatives until they have concrete information on where the bodies are missing. I believe that only such arguments can be discussed and co-operated for the future. Only arguments missing in the Republic of Serbia and I believe that further co-operation can be built on good neighbourly relations regardless of war injuries. I believe that the working body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the missing and imprisoned, which closely monitors every reach and every European report and is visible to it, we have received on my request from the War Veterans Committee all reports from the Ministry of the Croatian Defence in the composition of the working body of the Government for the missing and imprisoned corrections and on their request have been corrected by the European position on... Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that as well as in these, the secretary has now told me that the foreign minister's report has arrived and a meeting of the Veterans Committee will be organised to clarify these issues as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145271	Thank you, thank you very much. That's what I'm going to conclude. No, I'm sorry, I'll give the word finally, of course, on behalf of the promoter to the respected Croatian Defence Minister, Tommy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145272	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the respected members of the Alliance of the Association of Detained and Missing. I will use this final word to further explain those topics which, to the greatest extent possible through this debate, have been opened. I certainly want to thank all of you for your constructive discussion. What I would like once again to draw in this final word, which is the very approach during the drafting of this bill, that it was done through the working group, that in the working group an extremely significant role were played by the president of the alliance and members, or members of the Alliance of Prisoners and Missing. That, through the creation of this legislative proposal, we have been led to believe that the search for missing persons is a priority, a humanitarian issue, that the fundamental objective of all activities of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence and other bodies involved in the search for missing persons is to solve all cases of persons missing in the Homeland War. Such a legal solution provides for a systematic approach to addressing the problem of legal dispersion, which so far opened the possibility of legal gaps and incorrect interpretation of the existing legal framework. We find it important once again to point out that this final bill is prescribed by jurisdiction, very clearly and precisely. The Republic of Croatia, through the authorities, is the bearer of the activities of the search for persons missing in the Homeland War and of the deadly victims in the Homeland War for which the burial site is unknown. It is about persons who, at the time of the disappearance, had Croatian citizenship or registered residence, or were resident in the Republic of Croatia or were persons of foreign citizenship who had the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and who had no registered residence or residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia at the time of disappearance. Since the number of missing persons at the disposal of the Croatian Defence Ministry was one of the issues during this debate differs from the number of missing international organisations, it would like to point out very clearly that the Ministry of Croatian Defence as a body of the state administration is keeping records of persons missing in the Homeland War for whom the procedure for seeking the basis of the application of family members or other persons in accordance with the competences as we have defined them. On the other hand, international organisations usually display data according to the principle of territoriality, which means that they include citizens of other countries who have disappeared in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is very clear and concrete if we call for an international red cross which closed its office in the Republic of Croatia precisely because the Republic of Croatia has reached those standards that the international Red Cross has no basis for action in the Republic of Croatia, and for us is the relevant Croatian Red Cross and bodies of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to stress here openly and certainly once again is what we have done for the term of office of this Government, and as a focus of those measures and activities that he ultimately envisaged and this final draft of the law. So the activities we have spent in this government's mandate are the following, that we have collected and processed from all available sources the knowledge of 173 possible places of hidden mass and individual tombs from the Homeland War, that a full field survey has been carried out at 146 locations, where the remains of 108 people have been found and exhumed. That re-exhumation of the 21st remains was carried out, Vila Gavrilovic, Osijek Central Cemetery and Retfala Cemetery. If a field survey was carried out, a further 156 micro sites for which, during analytical and operational processing, would be prepared to carry out test excavations, with an emphasis on systematic research in Ovčara where 320 772 square metres were searched in 65 working days. That 23 identifications were organised, in which the remains of 153 people were finally identified, while another 11 people exhumed in the area of the Republic of Croatia were handed over to the competent authorities of countries whose nationals were Serbia or BiH. That an audit of all unidentified remains was carried out, that funeral care was organised for 144 identified persons. In addition to our activities aimed directly at resolving the cases of persons missing in the Homeland War, we have provided the preconditions for improving interstate and international cooperation, that we have concluded an agreement, i.e. the Protocol on Cooperation between the Government of Montenegro and the Council of Ministers during 2017 that we have concluded a Protocol on the Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission for Detained and Missing Persons and the Commission for Missing Persons, that an agreement was signed with the International Commission for Missing Persons on the establishment and maintenance of the database of active cases of missing persons, that the Framework Plan was signed to address the issues of persons missing in the area of the former Yugoslavia, in Den Hague, 6.11.2018, that, in addition to all these activities, we have introduced new innovative ground search methods, from air-to... Dogs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That we got state-of-the-art equipment, georadars, drones. That, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, we have signed an Agreement on Co-operation with HV, that we have concluded an Agreement on Cooperation with the University of Zagreb to improve the coordination and quality of scientific, research, educational and professional work in the field of exhumation and treatment of post-mortem remains. So these are just some of the activities and measures we have implemented, and they are ultimately the basis for the activities that we have foreseen in this final draft bill. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, although a number of activities and actions have been carried out and with all our efforts, the number of persons whose fate is still sought is extremely high. This final bill further confirms the Republic of Croatia's commitment to resolving this priority humanitarian issue and preserving the dignity of the missing in the Homeland War, as well as the victims of the Homeland War as a whole. And just because it's a humanitarian issue and this proposal is an expression of the best intentions and identified needs, I believe you will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145273	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145274	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, we of the HSS, personally support the adoption of this law because it is another tool to do more with signed protocols to find the last missing and because it is our obligation to our defenders, to their families, and it is certain that it should be more aggressive to approach the state bodies involved together in the process, but it is also an opportunity to call for all those living in Croatia, and they have the knowledge that they are obliged to give information to find the missing. But here is an opportunity to mention that these days are celebrated and marked, the anniversary of the draft famous 108th Brigade in Slavonski Brod and Podkklalj, that they are also thanked as defenders, but that we help with our authority not to shut down the jobs in Đura Djakovic, especially in special vehicles that operate a military program where most defenders are still working and that we certainly try to save those jobs in Slavonia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145275	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145276	We move on to a statement on amendments submitted to the Final Proposal of the Law on persons not on the ground in the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 610. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. We have an amendment to the War Veterans Committee. I ask the Minister of Croatian Defence of Honored Mr. Tom Bear to give us an explanation on this proposal for the amendment of the Committee on War Veterans. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment shall be accepted in part in an amended form, as follows: Article 15(2), second paragraph, which reads as follows: ‘For the submission of the information and documentation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article leading to the resolution of the cases of persons referred to in Article 4(1) and (2) of this Act, a natural person shall be awarded under the rules adopted by the Minister of Croatian Defence.’
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145278	I thank Mr. Secretary. The proposer's representative is not here, so we will vote on the amendment. We move to the amendment of the club of representatives of the Independent Lists. 1st Amendment please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145279	The amendment is not accepted by reason, the amendment cannot be accepted because the name and entire text of the law are in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Declaration of the Homeland War which was given the definition of the Homeland War and which was also adopted in Article 1(2) of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145280	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague Mira Butt to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145281	Thank you very much. The very name of this law, the Final Proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, of course, is not good and no mention of the great Serb aggression. It's not the Homeland War that caused the disappearance, the missing persons, it's the cause of major Serb aggression. Nowhere in this law mentions great Serb aggression. In the debate, I asked to be explained why the entire law on persons missing in the Homeland War, as you say, did not mention any major Serb aggression. So we know that it can be relativated over time and that the opposite side can say that the Homeland War is to blame for missing persons, either on our part or on the aggressor. There is no mention of great Serb aggression anywhere in the law. I didn't get an answer because of what or maybe there was someone conditional on it. Perhaps the coalition partner conditioned the SDSS when they were at Vucic's in Backo Palanca not to mention large-serb aggression. Greater-Serbian aggression is the cause and the Homeland War is the consequence. The domestic war is a reaction of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens to the great Serbian Chetnik aggression. And in this law, there is no mention of the great Serb aggression mentioned in the Declaration of the Homeland War, which is defined as being the cause of the Homeland War, the result of which is major Serb aggression. I therefore ask that votes on this proposal be changed means in the title not to mean in the final proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, but rather in the final proposal of the Law on Persons Missing due to Greater Serbian aggression. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145282	Thank you very much, Comrade Bull. We are moving on to the second amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145283	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation as for the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145284	Thank you very much. The obvious Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145285	The bill highlights the Homeland War Declaration. In essence, this amendment would harmonize the text of the law with the text on the Declaration adopted in the Croatian Parliament in Article 2. It is precise that the Republic of Croatia has defended its territory from major Serb aggression. So in this proposal of the law, I repeat, this term that was unanimously adopted in the Croatian Parliament is avoided during Racan's government, unanimously in this House, the Declaration of Homeland War. It is incomprehensible why this law does not mention itself as the cause of the missing and all the bad things that have happened to great Serb aggression. I repeat the consequences of the domestic war, and according to these victims, according to what can be related from the sides, by the occupiers, the aggressors, the great Serb Chetnic aggressors, it is possible that in time they will say that the consequences, that the Homeland War is guilty, no, no, the Homeland War was fair, that is the Declaration of this Parliament and said, the defence and large-serb aggression is the cause of all the evils and mostly the missing regardless of which side they were. And those who have committed aggression are not the consequences, not the Homeland War, but their aggression. And that's where we have to be clear. We can't play ministers with this. And we are not allowed under any conditions of any coalition partner, whether it was about Milorad Pupovac, whether it was about his father, whom he respected and watered by Croatia's Chetnik Vukic or anyone else. Homeland war is just a consequence. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145286	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We move to the Third Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145287	The amendment is not accepted. It is not necessary to define in this law, since it is a contractual relationship governed by general rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145288	Thank you. I'd like a statement from my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145289	Thank you very much. We believe it is necessary to define that institutions performing medical work to process and identify exhumed post-mortem remains must have all the need for expertise and professional knowledge and equipment to carry out these tasks. We believe that competences here are very important because of this we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145290	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We move to the Fourth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145291	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, these provisions prescribe the tasks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons missing in the Homeland War and the rest concerning the work of this commission, with the aim of fully defining the procedure of the competent authorities and other issues relating to the search for persons missing in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145292	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145293	Thank you very much. Law on, Article 24. The government law lays down the legal basis for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and not for the Croatian Parliament to establish permanent working bodies for advisory and professional issues from its section. In addition, this commission has already been established by the Government's decision, and if the Government considers that it is necessary to amend its existing decision then it can do so quickly and effectively at the first next cabinet session instead of needlessly involving the establishment of a commission in a longer and more complex procedure of law-making. Moreover, if, after the adoption of the law, the need to amend the Commission's provisions is created, such a change could not be realised without the new complex procedure of amending the law as well as necessary, which must be avoided. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The government law under which a decision to set up a commission is taken by the government is also appropriate in view of the principle of subsidiarity. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145294	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Here, colleague Djakic, on behalf of you, excuse me just a moment, we still have one amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Fifth Amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145295	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on persons missing in the Homeland War is consistent with the Criminal Law. In the context of the proposal for criminal sanctions to be imposed and for responsible persons in the bodies of the state administration referred to in Article 7(2) of this Act, we point out that this question is laid down by the Law on the right to access information which has been arranged and criminal sanctions, and there is no need to prescribe in this law as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145296	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145297	For certain violations of the Labour Act, responsible natural persons will be punished by a minimum penalty of 7000 kuna, and for not providing the necessary assistance in solving cases of persons missing in the Homeland War, the Government proposes a smaller one. a minimum penalty of 5,000 kuna. We believe that the minimum penalty for... /incomprehensible/... solving cases of persons missing in the Homeland War cannot be less than minimum penalties for individual infringements of the Labour Act. We also propose fines and responsible persons in the bodies of the state administration referred to in Article 7(2) of this Act, if they do not provide information available to family members on the progress and results of the search for their members of the families missing in the Homeland War or members of the families of the mortally injured in the Homeland War for which there is no known place of burial and we know that there are those who have also sabotaged the DORH who have not worked and all institutions who have not done their job with all the efforts of the Ministry of Defence and the bodies responsible for this, many institutions have not done their job. We know that the elected minister in the council, the minister elected Secretary of the Council of Europe, has not called on any committee to report to the Committee on Veterans, and has not given it, regardless of which, there is a colleague, Djakic, who did not give a report on the work of the committee, on Serbia's monitoring in 23rd, 24th. The chapter than was rewarded, meaning progress in the European hierarchy was obviously much closer to working with Vukić as their partner to the European Police page to advance hierarchically than that commission that is very important in monitoring 23, 24. Serbia's chapters didn't do that. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145298	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. And we have a respected colleague, Josip Djakic, in front of the War Veterans Committee. You said you accepted the amendment not to vote or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since I was not present when the amendment of the Committee on War Veterans was read in a changed form, I believe that this amendment, proposed by the Minister, was also welcomed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and accepted by the Committee on War Veterans as amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145300	Thank you, it becomes an integral part of the law. I would also like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mr. Bear, for the reasons for the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145301	Final proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, second reading. P.Z. No. 610, before I say anything about the law, I would like to welcome here members and members of the Alliance of Associations of Detained and Missing Croatian Lawyers in the Homeland War and welcome them, welcome. Comrade Bull, a break from this law, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145302	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, members of the Association of the Missing in the Homeland War, if this law, if I look for a consultation for 10 minutes on behalf of the club MOST, if this law solves one case, we will all be happy with our missing and expect to solve most of these cases, however, in this Proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, the war turns out to be the cause of the missing in the Homeland War. Not one word in the title or in the law mentions great Serb aggression. The great Serbian aggression was the cause of the missing, either on our side, because Croatia defended its country against the great Serbian Chetian aggression and this relativization essentially allows the great Serbs to say that the Homeland War is the cause of the missing and the dead, not rather than the large Serb aggression, and here the Declaration of the Homeland War was adopted during the Racan government, was adopted unanimously where the large Serb aggression was the cause and the beginning of the Homeland War. Don't let Mr. Parliamentary MPs now that the amendment vote is to pass a law that has no mention of great Serb aggression, not in one word. And don't be conditioned by the cry coalition partners, whether it's the SDSS or anyone else. I'd prefer it if you were conditioned by Milorad Pupovac to finally find out where Dr. John Schretter, so let's solve this one case instead of being conditioned by someone, Of course I'm asking you and you're giving me support in this law. [[The incursion president: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145303	Thank you, colleague Bulj, we're all set to take a break. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 12.30 minutes, please be there. MEETING IN 12.20 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.31 HOURS]] After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments, in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that, unanimously, 107 votes for the decision to conduct the debate on amendments have been voted upon, so I would ask the respected Croatian Defence Minister Tom Bear to explain the amendments submitted. Here, you have three amendments, so please present them together, you have 6 minutes in total, given that every 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145305	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members and members of the Alliance of Associations of Prisoners and Missing Persons of the Homeland War. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted 3 amendments to the Final Bill on Persons Missing in the Homeland War. The first amendment is related to Article 15, where it is proposed to add the words "or other competent authorities in accordance with this law and other regulations" to the word "minister" in Article 15(1). Namely, the Ministry of Croatian Defence acts as the executive and operational body responsible for the professional activities relating to the search for missing persons and dead persons unknown to the place of burial and exhumation, identification and burial of persons whose remains were found in mass, individual or common graves created during the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Croatian Defence accepts documentation, information and knowledge relating to the possible places of hidden, mass and individual tombs, and combines, analyses and processes to access the conduct of field activities or verifys the knowledge delivered. Directly gathering of information on possible sites of covered mass and individual tombs with remains of persons missing during the Homeland War, carried out by the Ministry of Security and Security agencies in accordance with the regulations on their work. In the light of the above, Article 15(1) further requires that any natural person, all information and documentation available to resolve the cases of persons missing in the Homeland War and the deadly victims of the Homeland War for which the burial site is unknown, be obliged to provide to the Ministry or other competent authorities in accordance with this law and other regulations. The second amendment, in Article 53(1) and (2), the words ‘or other competent authorities’ shall be added after the words ‘the Ministry’. In Article 53(3), Article 15 of this Act replaces "Article 15 of this Act, Ministry or other competent authorities". In accordance with Article 14 of the Law in the process of collecting knowledge and building of persons missing in the Homeland War and of persons killed in the Homeland War who are not known to be the place of burial and the places of mass and individual tombs, other competent authorities shall also participate in Articles 53 and 2 of the Law in accordance with those provisions. Since Article 53(3) of the Law provides for a criminal penalty for non-compliance under the provisions of Article 15 of the Law as amended by the amendment of the First Government and the amendment of the War Veterans Committee, this Article should also be brought into line. The amendment three, in Article 55 behind the word ‘Articles’, adds the words ‘15 paragraph 2’, as part of the amendment of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament to which any natural person providing the information and documentation referred to in Article 15(1) of the Law, which leads to the resolution of the cases of persons referred to in Article 4(1) and (2) of this Law shall be awarded under the rule adopted by the Croatian Defence Minister, shall be required to provide for a time limit for the adoption of that Regulation. As regards the objection that there is no major Serbian aggression in the law or in the name of the law, I stress that the entire text of the law is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Declaration of the Homeland War which was given the definition of the Homeland War and which was also adopted in Article 1(2) of this Law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all not to politicise this extremely sensitive and important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145306	I thank Minister Bear. I am opening a debate on the government's amendments, only representatives of representatives' clubs can take part in the debate, fellow Bulj reported on behalf of the Most Independent List Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145307	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow ministers. It is not disputed that this bill is in line with other laws and that it is constitutional but the fact is that the law does not mention anywhere, and also in its title that it is a major Serb aggression, that it is the cause of the missing large Serb aggression, I have not received an answer, which is why no major Serb aggression is mentioned anywhere, and I will mention that this Assembly has brought up the Declaration of the Homeland War where exactly it is said that the cause of the conflict in the area of the Republic of Serbia is large-scale aggression. I repeat, the Declaration of the Homeland War, this Parliament during the Government of Ivica Racan has unanimously brought this Parliament to the cause of the Velco-Serbian aggression, which means that the cause of all the missing and all the victims in the Croatian and of course and Bosnia are talking about our area, means that this Velco-Serbian aggression, as well as our missing in Serbia and Serbian citizens who have disappeared in the Homeland War in Croatia, is also the cause of the Velco-Serbian aggression. I didn't expect the reasons and answers from you ministers, I really expect this law that you have sent in the procedure and that the Ministry of Defense will do everything in charge of this Sucic and that the Ministry of Defense is doing everything possible to find our victims. I didn't say I wouldn't vote for this law, but I'll never accept that nowhere is mentioned in the whole law that they've disappeared essentially, that the cause of the Velco-Serbian aggression is gone. And this law had to be called about persons missing because of the Velcos Serbian aggression solely because of what the Homeland War was about. The answer, all gone, all the victims are meant exclusively because of the Velcos Serbian aggression and we must not allow anyone in the future to equalize the guilt through this law through this title, that the Homeland War is the cause of the missing. The country's war was liberating, fair, free of charge, against the Velco-Serbian Chetnic aggression where 2/3 of Croatia was occupied. And I'm giving it to my amendment, and I said it in the debate, and it's not clear to me, Minister, which is why, whether it's blackmailing perhaps coalition partners, whether Vucic might have influenced who was the one who led the rebellion and who called the people of Serbian nationality to rebel against the borders of Serbia's great-to-Karlovac to be a big Serbia. Is it perhaps the influence of a coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac, who goes to Bačka Palanka when we celebrate the Storm? I'm in person and I'll uphold this law, my club will uphold the law. No one in this assembly will be against this law because one person to get rid of it, one person will all be a proud minister. But the bodies don't work on our missing, and we won't mention what's going on around the campers. No one cares about our missing persons, there is nothing Chetnik Vukic can do until the last name, the list of our missing persons, has nothing to do with Pantovčak, or the Ban Courts, or here, to mock the Croatian missing, but to bring some papers that have nothing to do with our missing. What does that mean? If she has failed, your role will be positive you will fight as the Ministry of Defense, no one is objecting to your role, but what the Foreign Ministry is doing. With the commission, Serbia's opening chapters 23, 24. Chapters, what he does, nothing. She had an obligation to give a report by the Minister, now the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe selected, the newly elected, did not give a report, regardless of what fellow Djakic here as chairman of the committee said he would bring us a report within 2 days before 15 days that is mandatory to give, reports on meetings that did the commission. It didn't meet once, it didn't meet because it was much more important for Vukic to lobby that she be the President of the Council than to find our missing and solve our campers' problems. I know HDZ is in the regiment party along with Vucic's party, but we must not humiliate our missing. So the ministry, the DORH, the USCOD all the competent authorities, can't just do the Defense Department, can't do it without the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomacy, can't do it if the minister hasn't done her job and diplomacy can't find our missing. If we are only advocacy because of certain positions in Europe's high ranks if we do so. Of course the families are waiting for their missing, of course we're waiting for our comrades to find their bones. I just mentioned Dr. Ivan Schreter as an example of a peacemaker, and I suggested a peacemaker's day to be named after Dr. Ivan Schreter, and I ask Milorad Popovec to basically testify to Mr. Degoritsa's whereabouts, to go and say. So if those families had a candle to light, his family was scattered around the world, they wrote me letters, it was a peacemaker man. I asked you colleagues not to accept the peacemaker's day to be named after the man who called the people of Serbian nationality to his brothers not to fight, not to be exchanged, until on our part the prisoners and testimonies of Mr. Degorci were released, of course when he mentioned Mr. Pupovac who guaranteed if they let himself be released and Dr. Ivan Schreter who we don't know about today, not even today. That's what a man would find one I think would be proud of that man, proud of that family because we'd have a place to light a candle to that man already when we didn't have the strength and courage to have the intercoal relations of gentlemen from the HDZ with the SDSS to declare Dr. Ivan Schreter and a peacemaker's day to be named after that man, and you who come from these parts know that it's a minimum of what this peacemaker deserves that doesn't know about the grave that it's called Peace Day. Also, I must point out that the fines are mild, and I gave the amendment we gave ie. The club MOST and the amendment for penalties means the person, the natural and legal person of the central body of the state, means the bodies that are working to prevent the punishment, you are, by this proposal, giving the Government a smaller minimum penalty of 5,000 kuna. We believe that the minimum penalty for sabotaging and solving missing cases in the Homeland War cannot be less than a minimum penalty for individual violations of the Labour Act. So, for sabotaging the minister, for sabotaging the discovery of the missing, you gave less punishment than you did for a crime at work, 7 grand is minimal, you're here 5 grand. We've increased that sentence to the maximum, as much as possible. Sabotaging the finding of these people is a crime greater than what will be when a crime has been committed, according to these families because it is finally necessary to punish all those who have not done their job and Croatian institutions have not done their jobs. Of the institutions of persecution, mainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who did not do his job as I said about Chapter 23, 24 of the follow-up, a committee that did not perform, monitoring the entry into the EU of Serbia which had not met one commission, neither in 2017 nor in 2018, and did not report to the presidents on my request where they had to submit a report once a year. Minister Buric found no commission, and that was the only one in the mandate on the Oreskovic government, and then in 2016 it met when Kovac was the commission and the obligation was fulfilled. Only in 2016, 2017, minimum 4x had to meet and had to report to the President of the Republic. On my request from the President of the Republic, the official, written, ministers we have not received an answer, you are a member of the Government and ask why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs i.e. The minister did not follow the entrance, i.e. EU accession in the opening of Chapters 23 and 24 We didn't get that answer, she was obliged to give that answer to the Veterans Committee, she avoided coming, no matter what was a business obligation because the Rules of Procedure was of importance at the level of the law, she didn't come and said why the Committee on Monitoring of Serbia didn't meet. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, this and the ministers respected with their assistant, if one of the dead is solved, we will support this law, if one of the dead is resolved, we will be satisfied because it is much more important that what will be dealt with by this law. But please, colleagues and colleagues, let's not bend the truth, our disappearances are not missing in 1893, no matter what the cause of the Homeland War, the Homeland War is the consequence. The law does not mention a word of great Serb aggression. If this is a blackmail and the condition of coalition partners it is not good, it is disastrous to be in meetings when the storm in Bačka Palanca is on the Chetnik party conditioned by the Croatian Parliament as it will be called this very important law. But since this is about the humanitarian issue, of course we'll all be in. But please, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Homeland War Declaration says that the cause of the wars in this area is major Serb aggression. Not one word of this law mentions great Serb aggression. I did not get an answer from the minister, which is why there is no mention of the massive Serbian aggression based on the Declaration that I mention on several occasions, which was adopted in this House unanimously so that it would not turn out to be pushed by the HDZ just during the government of Ivica Racan when both parliamentary representatives and HDZ and the parties at the centre and SDP voted unanimously. So it's a single law. Here I told you colleagues what I think, it would be good to support this and to enter great Serb aggression as the cause of the bloody conflicts here... And I'm giving you ministers everything I can, and we're going to support this law if it goes away one dead I think we're all going to be satisfied and most of all here is when our colleague here is mentioned to the Pupovac to finally tell you where Dr. Pupovac is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ivan Schreter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145308	The second Club of Representatives is SDP, a respected colleague of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145309	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. I would like to point out once again that the SDP Club will support this law. That's not why I answered. I answered the last line the minister said and invited us all not to politicize this sensitive topic. And I'm solemnly saying, we're not going to politicize this sensitive subject because we're better than you, we're not going to make a tent, we're not going to stop the state top from entering a column in Vukovar, we're not going to do everything you've done when you've politicized this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145310	The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Djakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, respected families imprisoned and missing at the head of the President, Mrs. Alvir. Well, here is finally before us and the Final Proposal of the Law, and this debate today was absolutely unnecessary by colleagues of Bulja and his club, given that the very families of the prisoners and the missing were involved in this law, as the Committee for the Making of this Law, who agreed with all the points of the law, as well as with the first part that spoke of the basic provisions in which Article 2 clearly states that the Homeland War is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Declaration of Homeland War is just, legitimate, defensive and liberating war in the period of '91-'95. The Croatian people expressed their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent sovereign and democratic state. It's clearly in art. 2., so as to suggest that there is no aggression anywhere, and in the Homeland War Declaration, armed aggression by Serbia, JNA and Montenegro has been committed against the Republic of Croatia. It says clearly, I don't know what else to explain. Why is the politicisation of this topic of extreme need and what law should already have been voted in this House long ago after the end of the Homeland War? This law is certainly at the right time and is now passed because it will certainly enable you to have a mature intention, desire and relation to the missing on the Committee on War Veterans where we have brought a unanimous amendment and addition. The 15th in which you can clearly reward the one who will provide credible information, so this, your amendment, probably unanimously in front of the board, not like this. If necessary, and given that it is clearly written in Art. 2 basic provisions, then this is just a political imposition of the subject and your struggles and aspirations that absolutely do not exist. So please. Let's stop politicizing what's not necessary. We are truly fighting for the quick discovery of all the missing persons, let us let those who are still suffering today and tend to bury them with dignity and this law to achieve the goal that is in all our minds and desires, which is to bury all the missing with dignity, to know where their graves and cemeteries are, and then likely to find and how they died and who did what they shouldn't have done. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues in front of the MPs' club, we have had time to discuss in two readings, suggest, could also the Committee on War Veterans, as it unanimously agreed to amend and supplement the article. 15, if it's necessary, but since it's all written here, I absolutely see no need but pure politicisation, personal emphasis because you probably don't have any other weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145312	Okay, we've come to the end of the debate. Wait a minute. I didn't see you up there, but I'd be begging you. This is such a difficult and painful subject and that we are not really opening a further discussion, it is clear that you have said on many occasions what you wanted. Out of respect for the victims, according to their family members, I ask you to finish this topic. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145313	Thank you very much. Also, before I tell the Rules of Procedure, I express my great respect for the victims and this law, but he has injured Mr Djakic. 238. where he basically politicized this situation to the victims and to go to Vukovar, when he called on the victims not to go away and numerous other situations, and I suggested in the first reading just this, and you promised us on the board that she would come within 2 days, Minister Buric, and that she would give her Report, which was mandatory, you didn't do it. [[Thank you. I thank my colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145314	Buddy Bull, time's up. Comrade Bulj, please. Comrade Bull, you've broken the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. [[So you're politicizing all the time defense attorneys. Thank you very much.]] Now let's go to, please, colleagues and colleagues, to calm down and devote ourselves to the vote. I therefore vote on the 1st amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 111 votes are in favour, accept the 1st amendment and become an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the 1st amendment of the Government. Also, unanimously, 109 votes in favour, the 2nd amendment was accepted. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And Amendment No. Three, please vote. And Amendment No. 3 unanimously, 110 votes for becoming an integral part of the final bill. We will now go to the amendments of the Committee on War Veterans and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The first amendment of the War Veterans Committee was accepted in writing, accepted by the applicant of the amendment and became an integral part of the law in such a form. So let's go to the Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The first amendment is not accepted by the government, so I ask you to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Two of the same club representatives were not accepted, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 3, the same club the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 4, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And we're going to the last, fifth amendment from that club, the government won't accept it. This amendment has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, 111 votes for the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145316	Now, as we decided this morning, we will have a united debate on the following two points: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the House Loan Subsidisation Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 633; and - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 634; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145317	Honorable MPs. Today, we have two amendments to the laws concerning young people. It is about the Law on Social Encouragement and the Law on subsidisation of Housing Loans, the two measures they have in order to address the housing issue of young people, i.e. providing homes for young people. We're changing one law and another because that's what the citizens asked us to do. We listened to their demands for a year ago, communicated with them, and decided to further improve and adapt exactly to the demands of our citizens. I'll remind you, more than 5300 subsidized loans are now granted. More than 5300 young people with help... The subsidy bought an apartment or a house or built a house. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] More than 700 children have been born in their homes so far. I can therefore safely claim that this is a good and concrete demographic measure. Also so far, 8276 POS apartments have been built and another 1000 are being prepared, mostly on the coast. When we add it up, it's more than 13.5 thousand homes for more than 36,000 young people. A law on subsidising housing loans has been adopted to help resolve the housing issue for young people as well as to encourage demographic recovery. This law regulates subsidisation of housing loans that citizens, young people under 45 years of age take from credit institutions to buy an apartment or buy a house or to build a house to resolve a housing issue. Through the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation Agency, the APN subsidized from 30 to 51% of the total amount of meals or annuities in the first 5 years of payment of the housing loan. The subsidisation of the loan will be approved for the purchase of an apartment or house, i.e. building a house of up to 1500 euros per square metre or up to a maximum amount of 100,000 euros in kuna equivalent. The credit repayment period shall not be less than 15 years, the amount of subsidies will depend on the development index of the place where the property is purchased or built, and this will range from 30 to 51% of the amount of the credit war. This housing measure is also a demographic measure, as for each child born during the period of the subsidised State subsidy is extended by an additional 2 years. The paper is that after the amendments to the laws in the assembly, subsidies will be extended for an additional year per child and for families already having children. So for example, for a family that already has two children a subsidy instead of five years will take seven years. To remind you, subsidising housing loans is a housing measure that has been implemented since 2017. More specifically, calls were made in 2017 and 2018 and young people will be able to return for subsidies until autumn 2019 and next 2020. The implementation of the 2019 Budget Act and the 2020 and 2021 projections shall be subject to the provision of funding. If needed in 2020, additional resources will be provided. As for the POS Act as well as the subsidized loans, this is a concrete demographic measure aimed at enabling young housing insurance and staying in Croatia. The construction of POS is a programme for the housing of young families who receive safety and quality building for less prices of squares than the market. POS apartments are built for purchase and rental and so far more than 8200 apartments have been built through the POS programme, investing more than 4 billion kunas. Over the next 2 years, new 1,000 apartments are planned to be built at locations in Zadar, Split, Trogir, Solin, Biograd na moru, Cres, Krk and another ten municipalities. The amendments to the social promotional housing law aims to enable the resolution of the housing issue through a wider circle of citizens who buy apartments on the free market and reduce the interest rate to public funds in repayment from 3% to 2%. It also aims to enable the purchase of dwellings for state and public officials and lessees and to prevent the misuse of public funds in the use of apartments by imposing a ban on renting or selling apartments. The amendments to the Law on POS also have a demographic character since the aim is to ensure that young people stay in Croatia, here in Croatia contribute to the economy, here in Croatia to have their own home. This is why a ban on renting or selling unpaid apartments is introduced in the context of the regulation of the POS market, which will be defined by a buy-in contract in order to really use the apartments for the purpose for which they were built and for which the state singles out its public funds. I call on all young families to report in September for a tender for subsidized loans to buy an apartment, buy a house or build a house. The apartment must have a useful permit, a building house and a building permit is required for building the house. All who will have the proper documentation will also receive a subsidy. I ask the Assembly, MPs, to vote this amendment, these two amendments to the law and to contribute to our young people staying in the Republic, to work here, to contribute to the economy and to GDP growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145318	Thank you very much. Here are the replicas for almost all present in the hall, so let's go in turn, the first one will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you said that you were going to these amendments to the law because you were asked by citizens and that you were listening to citizens and young families and that you were doing these changes. Now, I'm wondering how you haven't heard the citizens telling you to lift the subsidy to the development index or to be like 2017. 50% credit subsidies for the entire Republic of Croatia regardless of where the apartment is bought because according to this solution you introduced in 2018 by change, we Today in the town of Gospić, which in my humble opinion is certainly not one of the most developed environments in the Republic of Croatia, you have a subsidy of only 36%, so you can't tell me that this is an incentive to develop that end. I personally believe that environments like Gospić and the like should have a 50% subsidy as they had in 2017, and that's what citizens tell you, and that's what citizens do. They're asking you, why don't you listen to them? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145320	Dear Minister Shtromar, no, well. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145321	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, we should not be surprised that we have all given up the replica, we look forward very much when some minister comes and strays into HS and presents his law, so we look forward to the fact that both Minister Štromar and Vice-President are there among us. My replica refers to the fact that when it comes to the House Rental Act, then one of the models was that they can buy in the POS system, so I want to know how much you have and how much of it is real, given that at this point they are building from POS 4 buildings in the area of the Republic of Croatia, so is it realistic that you can solve it, how much of it is required, and is it realistic that, within the appropriate period prescribed by law, it is actually done or solved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145322	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145323	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister Štromar, you said among other things that these funds are used by law for what is the subject of construction and why the state has actually allocated funds. But the towers say that certain apartments are illegally used or rented or reselled, so they talk about such irresponsible housing users. Tell me if this law and the ministry are considering whether it's possible that... In cooperation with the garter, he actually checks the legality of using these apartments? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145324	The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, please. A colleague of Lovrinović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145325	This isn't about any help from the Republic of Croatia... Citizens, we finally have to admit that this is one of the most elaborate client programmes of a party that has been ruining years of the Republic of Croatia, first with the SDP, now with HDZ. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't save us, you spent 4 billion on these programs, you asked this government to run this particular construction business because it's a elaborate job. Your party HNS is running the Environmental Protection Fund, she's running the HEP, she's running the JANAF, you're the most cursed, and I'm waiting for the barely parliamentary elections to disappear from the scene because what could you have done so far? You could've stopped them from taking too much out of our bank pockets in the last 10 years, you could've saved 40 billion kuna, we could've shared everyone's apartments for nothing. So stop bringing two sentences into this law every year to make the impression that you're helping the citizens. Don't help us like this. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145326	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers with Associates can only clarify because the debate was united, twice you said that a ban on renting and selling apartments is being imposed, that's with these POS apartments. Now I'm wondering if this one, there's the same ban, because you said that both are public funds, is there a ban on these subsidized housing loans, is there some kind of restriction there, is that if we put it here on POS's apartments, and I think it would be good to have something similar to that of my colleague Babic speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145328	The next replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145329	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, when we pass the law, then we should count or give everyone a chance to consume it, that they all have the same chance, and that is the case, unfortunately not. It is evidence that in 2018 there were only 13 requests from Ličko-Senj County, only 16 from Požega-Slavon County, and this does not give the same chance to all regions, especially underdeveloped areas if we want people to live there, and you know that you are walking around Croatia and you see that in Slavonia the entire house and the entire estate is sold for 5 to 10,000,00 EUR. Why? Because first there are no jobs, and what young people have to do or only for a certain time or work for a salary of 3.500,00 to 4,000.00 kn and he can't afford a subsidized housing loan. You must include other measures if you want demography, return and resuscitation of these parts. This is no help for these underdeveloped areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145330	The next replicas of the esteemed representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145331	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, what I think is not, is not serious enough, you're actually calculating, all the time you're saying you're contributing to this, so these laws, you make a demographic contribution to these laws that's one of those, that they're one of the demographic measures. However, the whole time you're calculating the law, you're calculating which child you're going to give two years for, for which child you're going to be subsidizing on interest for a year. So you're constantly doing discrimination and that's what's in this law, that's still a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145332	The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145333	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. The maximum support is whether it goes to this law and to any law that is for the benefit of young people in the Republic of Croatia, the numbers very clearly show what our citizens think about this form of credit subsidisation, which has shown with some 7 and a few thousand overall solutions that this really is a quality measure but I am interested in whether new construction is planned in this law, whether according to the degree of construction of an object or additional guarantees because we here are also giving a subsidy for the construction of the houses themselves that we cannot guarantee will ultimately be completed and we degrade someone who might have taken an apartment that might be in the final stage of construction, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145334	The next replica is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145335	Thank you. The Honorable Minister, Vice President, namely this law, and what you have said at the outset, means one of the demographic measures. The fact is that the development index may not have been understood by many because there have been criticisms in the first reading, as well as perhaps in the future it may try to think about it because the development index does not follow everywhere, and the average of the wages we have in certain parts, perhaps in the perspective that this possibility is also considered, even though it is a commercial bank through which credit is obtained, means its potential whether it is creditworthy or not, but I believe that this is certainly another addition of good measures and perhaps not discouraged by these criticisms, always does, means failure will forgive but success will never.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145336	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145337	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, every attempt to keep young people, to buy an apartment, to build a house is a good measure and I will vote for it, but I agree with my colleague, Djujic, who says that this is kind of discrimination because it is not right for a single unit of local self-government of a young man who is equally valuable to stimulate with 30% and someone with 50%. I think all our youngsters are equal and equally valuable and this is a certain discrimination. And secondly, what would you like to answer, you said in the final part that all those who will apply for a loan, who will have the documentation, will receive loans. Clearly, there is a certain budget in the budget for this, meaning that after reviewing all offers, if there is a larger amount, you will have to make a rebalance and provide more funds if it is not enough because you say all the young people who will make the request will get credit, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145338	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145339	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State with an associate. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support both laws and laws amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouraging Apartment Construction as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Loan Subsidisation Act. First of all, I must say that I was pleased that the Government, in the light of the House Loan Subsidisation Act, included in its first part the fact that this law was first incorporated into the Croatian legal system in 2011 and that it was then practically started with the realisation of these laws, even then with a state guarantee, and that this law was then continued in a somewhat modified form in 2017 but the original model and the meaning of the law itself from 2017 later on, so even now it is practically done for the better, for the better model of 2011. What I would like to point out in particular is that we support amendments to the laws relating to a new additional subsidy relating to the beneficiary of a housing loan that has a child under 18 at the time of the conclusion of the contract, so that for one year the length of the subsidy itself is extended. This law also made it even more clear in this normative act how to implement the procedure for the requirements which have been initiated under the provisions of the applicable law which have not been completed by today or until the date of entry into force of this law. What's important is, it's good that it's been a long time and it's good that young people who intend to engage in the purchase of apartments under this law know that in advance the APN will publish a public call somewhere in September so that complete documentation can really be prepared by then, to address the issue of relationships for the sellers of apartments so that they can welcome the time at which this law is being implemented. If I heard correctly, Mr. Minister, you said that in your opening statement here, that you were inviting young people to answer and that everyone who answered, so that everyone who answered this public call would get a subsidy, that's very good... This can therefore be said, therefore, that the number of requests is not limited by the amount in the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the experience we have both in 2011 and 2012 and in 2017 and 2018 I believe that there will be a very large number of young people who will come forward. Each more than 2, 2.5 thousand, if we know that almost 3 thousand requests have been granted in 2017 or 2018, or 2986 requests. So we can say that this number is growing year after year. And I believe that this year too will be a record number of young people's demands to become owners of their apartments under this law. What I still wanted to single out, that is, since we have also brought together the debate on the Law on subsidisation of housing loans and on the Law on Social Encouragement, I have repeatedly compared these two models in this House. Both models are good. And I said that especially the third model has grown to my heart, which is brought to financing housing savings, subsidising housing savings, and that the loans that are made according to this House Savings Act are also very tempting, although they reach the lowest interest rate. And I was always a supporter that the original proposal that was introduced more than 20 years ago into the Croatian legal system, subsidizing housing savings, came back again with, I would say with somewhat more generous state subsidies on housing savings because it seems to me that this is a good way to encourage on the one hand the resolution of the housing issue and on the other hand to encourage construction in the Republic of Croatia. At this point that this law is not on the agenda, I won't do much, we talked about it many times in the Croatian Parliament, but when we talk about these two laws, I would only give one small comparison, which means these two laws. So far, we have made it possible to subsidise the purchase of apartments in 2011, 2012, 2017, 2018, so in 4 years. At the same time, the Law on Incentive Housing has been implemented for 18 years and according to this first law, the House Loan Subsidisation Act so far has been sold to 7754 apartments. So 7754 people are the beneficiary of today's housing loan under this law. At the same time, I say 18 years in force or 17 years in force is the law on amendments, i.e. the Law on Social Encouragement Building. Under the law, 8272 apartments in Croatia were sold. So in 18 years 8272 and here he is in 4 years 7754 flats. And why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because for the socially stimulating housing for 8272, we were supposed to hire a billion and 100 million kunas of public funds. For an almost identical number of apartments, for an almost identical number of apartments, Croatia will allocate 450 million kuna under this second law. So almost identical number of states' dwellings will give a smaller number of apartments, so double the amount of money will be allocated and the possibility is left, the possibility is left to the buyer of that apartment more easily. On the one hand, everything is solved in one place in this case to APN, i.e. in its business bank, which then continues with APN, we engage in a smaller number of state administrations and it is a much simpler approach, everything is resolved within 15 days as much as possible since the grant application is applied for and about a month and a half anyway. We don't ask for the engagement of local self-government units, we don't have to think about the price of construction land, the etalon value of apartment, we don't think about anything, we simply allow the owner of the apartment to choose in Croatia the location that suits him, it's not getoized as POS does, it can choose what he wants and at the price he wants with what the state says ok, you take what you want, we subsidize a thousand and a half euros in kuna equivalent per metre square and up to a maximum amount of 100,000 euros, i.e. limit but provides freedom of choice, provides the possibility of selecting location, quality of construction etc., etc.... So, what I'm saying is that I support myself and the socially stimulating housing there is no dispute, and I support that, in this way, this socially stimulating housing that is subsidized by state resources related to interest, and this is an acceptable moment for me to return these public funds everything, and I can agree with all of that, but I say if I were to be in the position of a young man who should solve my housing issue, I would go with this Law on Social Encouragement Building. And the best evidence is this fact, so in just four years we've sold 8,000 apartments and here I say in 17 years the same 8272 apartments. And I say to the state it costs less and whoever owns that apartment and who buys that country for him has to do less. I especially support the measure which is therefore social but is also demographic. And I agree that it's good and that it's a very smart solution, about how many children were born in apartments that were bought under that law, which is based on the fact that they got newborns, that they had a child that in 2, 4 or 6 years depends on how many children they got increased time subsidising their housing loans. This amount of subsidy is not small, this amount of subsidy is not small, I calculated that for the 6th time, for the 6th category, or the 6th group of development indexes about it was later said that it was precisely Gospić in the reply minister mentioned Gospić, that, for example, if a loan of 100 thousand euros per 20 years was taken on the property's 20-year state to pay that user 14,000 euros. That's a significant amount. Whoever once was in construction or was buying an apartment, a new building, and he knew that it was about as much money as the state pays out of the state budget in five years without getting a single child, and then extended the age in which, or the time period in which the state helps him to repay credit, it takes so much money to provide relatively solid furniture and equipment. Therefore, the state allows the young man who buys the apartment and provides significant funds and takes credit to buy the apartment, by means of his subsidy, to take on another loan and to send the apartment completely. And we know that when you buy a new apartment, it's not easy to get that apartment fully equipped. So, in this way, it really helps these young people in this first phase of their lives when they start a family, when they want to solve the housing issue that the state really comes out to meet them and helps them to start a normal life, I say, with the help of the state, and clearly, with this additional demographic measure of 2 years of age, an extension of the aid and subsidisation of its war is very helpful and makes this law more tempting. As far as the Social Encouragement Act is concerned, it certainly is the fact that the interest rate on public funds is reduced from 3% to 2%, it is to be welcomed, these are significant money that needs to be provided in the state budget, and I very much support it. I also support the fact that this law also has a reverse effect in a way that all those dwellings in POS which are the owners of dwellings based on the Social Encouraging Law have become 10 years back and this applies to them and to all those profuturo cannot, except for the purpose that the law intended to rent or use in any other way, I welcome it and it is a good measure, it should have been done before and I think it is for, in any case, to welcome it. As you Vice-President and Minister of Construction, I last said that when we had the first reading, in any case these first three months in Croatia show that the construction sector has been fully revived by both construction works and by the number of construction permits issued, according to the number of works issued, construction works are in significant swing in Croatia. The fact that we lack labour is a major challenge for this government and everyone because not only is the labour force lacking in this sector but also in other sectors is something that needs to be answered in particular. It is particularly important that numerous public investment in Croatia and I say that over 80% of all public investment is financed by EU funds, so it is particularly important that this part of this ministry and the government must find quality solutions because the fact is that we have more and more work and that we are not satisfied with the contractors. I know it down by the sea that numerous units of local self-government that are going towards the construction and implementation of projects for which they are provided by EU funds are asking competitions that often there are not enough performers, there is one, very often that one offer is not even correct, it is then delaying the realization of these numerous projects and I think it is also necessary to think about how and to what measures to encourage and hire, how and how to solve the lack of labour that is now increasingly obvious in Croatia. In any case, we will support one and the other law at the HDZ Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145340	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in a name to be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145341	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, State Secretary and Assistants. Here we are in a united debate in the second reading of two amendments to the law is one Law on subsidisation of housing loans and the second is the Law on Social Encouragement. Any country that wants to be friends with its fellow citizens also wants to be well-intentioned toward all those who have decided to come to that country, work or live. Somehow, it has to satisfy a series of conditions, and I want to say, first of all, since a friend is first and foremost decent education and the ability to educate young people, second is employment and third is always an interesting topic and everyone is an interesting apartment. When the state is making efforts to really be friends with its citizens, to provide them with a well-quality housing with clear game rules, of course, it should be supported. And in that sense, the GLAS and HSU will also apply to these laws. I also absolutely think that there should be a wide range of different offers because they are not offers for all the same and they should not only be decided for one model. So, at this point we have an offer, we have POS, with data provided by the ministry at this time being in the construction of 186 apartments in POS in Biograd na moru, Đurđevec, Krk and Varazdin. This means that according to this data that we have not had what is possible in the announcement or what is possible in the agreement, it has obviously decided in one policy of the ministry with POS to stop a little bit and to strengthen about the subsidies of residential loans which is logical for the right in a certain way, you have a simpler path, a simpler methodology for you, it is easier to be as it has already been said, somewhere between 2500 rough requests at the level of a year goes from a subsidy and you raise a loan, you choose an apartment in the market, so up to 100,000 euros, and then you decide which apartment you want and get subsidies. I'm kind of thinking that you really need to be one broad leprosy so whoever you are, someone will decide one model, the other will decide on another model and everything should be in the offer but something that I'm absolutely sure, based on the experience that we have and also on the experience of some other cities and some other countries, that the project rents apartments, a project that is extremely good and extremely useful. So in the project when the state or certain cities decide to have the houses you have in your rental, so when you have a small family and less income, you take on the town’s edge apartment, when you get more walks or increase your family, you have somewhere else, Croats or Croatian citizens are known for the fact that we like to have real estate. Some other countries really don't have that tradition, so here's a digression, when it's announced that it could be a property tax, it always causes it in a certain way and confusion because Croatian citizens haven't saved in diamonds, they haven't saved in shareholders, they've mostly saved in their properties, and then of course it always causes confusion. Some other EU citizens do not have this relation to real estate, and it is absolutely normal for them to, even if they have their own real estate and sell and be rented somewhere. That effort that Croatia should make and the effort that certain cities should make is really making sure that they have the properties that they own, and I mean the apartments they rent. Lately, we have had, not recently, but recently been a major debate on the need to really increase the quota for foreign workers and to increase the quota for foreign workers in two activities. One activity was tourism, another activity was construction. These foreign workers, when they come here, have to live somewhere if they even decide to come with their families somewhere, have to live so that the theme of building apartments that will be rented is that the state has a certain amount of apartments that they will really be renting is the topic to discuss. Similarly, the state should somehow not be someone and the other stepmother, somehow should be a mother to everyone, so for what we are always discussing, that the subsidies that have been decided in a certain percentage, so that the percentage in different parts of Croatia, I think it would be incomparably better if it still decided to be one percentage for the whole country and we also know that there will be an APN contest at 9. I mean, maybe it's complicated, maybe at this point it's not too simple but I kind of think it'd be good if the contest was all year round. The debate on these two laws opens two, at least two topics. One topic is what was tried in the POS law, which is that what we had the opportunity to see, that some in their properties didn't even move in. We had the opportunity recently to see the head of the municipality of Nerežić, who recently as a municipality really mentioned a lot, who bought a new chief through the POS programme, so I'm not talking about Minister Kuštević, who is the former chief, who bought an apartment he didn't even move into, in which he rents and uses as an apartment for rent and when asked, he replied, so whether it was moral or not, it could be discussed but it was legal. The fact is that, on several occasions, it has tried to limit the availability of POS apartments or indeed to define how it can be available to these apartments for the simple reason that in these apartments the funds from the state budget are included, on several occasions there has been a conversation with the Constitutional Court and the topic has always been constitutional categories, this is one of the efforts, that the ministry has made to say the company of mine, if you bought the apartment from POS and you used it and at all you don't live in that apartment, don't use it for what it is but you live somewhere else and then you have to earn something on that apartment, it's an attempt that is grateful, how it will end, we'll see but also it would be good and try to talk a little bit, and to see that indeed the formal Constitutional court where those who have such apartments will certainly have, will be used, or will have a need to start a constitutional suit, to see what it will be. In the replica one of the colleagues asked that question and I think that it should be considered therefore, and when it comes to the apartments that you buy on the basis of credit, on the basis of subsidies, it should also be one restriction because you, therefore, someone used for your property subsidy state, used new ones from the budget, the topic was after you stopped de facto could make a profit so sell... So again, be without an apartment and learn next time, so what citizens can come up with, you can't imagine in the law, but if we know that we have a problem with POS, surely there's going to be a problem when it comes to subsidies and, of course, there's a need to really be taken care of and there's a certain limit because I'm guessing that this hodogram, which is about 2,500 apartments that are purchased by the basis of subsidies that are also going to be still that way on an annual basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, for all of these options that come up with every time you do the law and try to solve the housing issue then you go in good faith and in good interest to really help someone who first solves their housing issue to get a good apartment to get in time, but as ingenuity has no limit and there is, there can be expected also a number of things that can be tied up by subsidisation of housing loans, so those apartments that no one will move in, but will use the subsidy to sell it and thus actually make a certain amount of money. When they were in the first reading, then especially this subsidy law caused a major debate, I see that now this debate is no longer about what is happening on the real estate market, whether the state has in this way increased the price of real estate or has not increased the price of real estate. I wasn't prone to the possibility that in this way, so suddenly the search for 2,500 additional apartments, as we see 2,500 apartments is on the annual level, I think the demand for real estate is a number of other things, that this is just one thing, that the same way when you get out of that recession that the price of apartments is growing, but you can always have apartments worse and worse, so I wasn't at that point inclined and now I'm not inclined to say the price of real estate has increased on the market because here's the country starting with subsidies. There are certain localities in the Republic of Croatia that will always have customers, this site is Zagreb because of its appeal to the capital and these sites are by the sea. So, when there was even one survey for Split, as much as there would be real estate in Split related to renting apartments, then this research showed that about 1,000 families would enter the apartment rental project in Split, because young families were to return to the theme of renting an apartment. So, young people said that they would decide sooner if they had additional funds, that additional funds would be used for travel, for additional schooling, and that with their apartment is not a priority and that they would be much more willing to rent apartments as much as they said, so parents have an apartment, so parents would go to the rent parents, and we would arrange for themselves the apartment they were in. The housing issue is extremely important, every effort that the state is working to resolve the housing issue is welcome, but from this pay phone we have on many, many occasions and many, many times talked about decentralisation. One of the kinds of decentralisation is that additional efforts are made and cities. Cities should also have their own housing policies, they should also take care because in this way the city becomes attractive to arrival, to jobs, for people to prefer to live in a particular city because you see that young people have no problem living in one part of Europe and the world, a little bit in another part of Europe and the world. Finally, it is difficult to discuss these two housing laws rather than discuss the topic that is happening in the construction sector. At this point not only is there a need for additional labour, but at this point the demand for any and a little more expert master to say so on the market and the situation I would say is alarming. Someone recently asked me, and I answered it then if you need to make a deal, maybe he is, and I see that there's a doctor and there's plenty of doctors, so maybe I'm saying something wrong, but let's say you set up an open brain operation, no matter how many doctors have gone from Croatia you're going to do something about it, but if you're having a water boiler leak and you need a plumber that needs to come to you that day or another day, I'm afraid you won't be able to get to it, and for some more serious procedures, no one's going to decide anymore, so there's a minor you have to have special, special characters, if you want someone to do something for you. And when you do that in private, you'll still figure it out, but for everything that's done in the public sector, and in the public sector, 80% of all construction activities are related to the public sector, it's related to EU funds, it's related to public procurement, which is now when you enter, you see that it's significantly bigger, it's larger than it was before. So, on the one hand, you have a problem at all companies that will work, and on the other hand you have a labour problem. That's what at this point, so everyone, you can even secure the funds and provide subsidies and enable POS, it won't have almost anyone doing it. No one's gonna dare get into that job, because there's just no people working. Therefore, only two sentences are final. We at the GLAS Club support every effort that is in solving our fellow citizens' housing problems, that we do not again think that maybe we should do something different and better, so I am also taking this opportunity to talk, but we are also taking this opportunity and we will use it every time. The state of construction is alarming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145342	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, we made several proposals and remarks in our first reading on behalf of the club, some referred to this law, some of which were similar to those spoken by a colleague in the previous debate Mrak Taritash, in a slightly different way. None of it's accepted. I'll say I'm not satisfied, at least with one piece, but there's no reason not to accept the laws since they have the other part of the elements that are really facing people, especially young people who take care of themselves and have a positive effect. In my first reading discussion, I expressed dissatisfaction that the term family change by term of household. And I also think that it's not good, that we're going slowly into some things wrong, but since obviously it's in this assembly, no one else's mind, then there's no reason for me to be on it right now, and I don't know how to write amendments or anything else, and I stand for it. Well, let the train go, where it'll come we'll see one day but I'm afraid it won't exactly come to the right station in those things. What I don't understand in my answer is that I see here in the debate and the suggestion that the existing loans that were the subsidy are aligned with the debt deficit with the current one, is from 5% to 2%. It's said you can't retroactively do that. I'm not a financier, but I don't understand, if you can in banks an existing loan to renegotiate, you can cut interest, you can sign a new contractual relationship for the same loan, I don't understand why people who have that unfavourable loan wouldn't allow for the rest of the debt and may have that same interest. To me, I don't have that kind of credit and I'm not so familiar with it, but that proposal, that requirement was given to me by people who have, who have entered into those relationships in those first stages when the encouraging housing started and who then took those loans, so they took that subsidy and now they propose, beg, they ask them to allow for that difference, for the rest of the debt to be aligned with the existing law. I ask you to consider it one more time and see if it's really possible or not, or this smooth bureaucratic writing is not possible, can't be retroactively, ate by a donkey wolf and the end of the story. I think from what they told me, it's not exactly like that, people have been consulting with lawyers a little bit, and that's not exactly how it turned out. If they misinstructed me, I speak wrongly, but these are the words of the people who have these loans that have them well, analyzed them deeply and looked for ways to improve and make it easier to pay the difference. The third proposal was related not to these laws, not to these laws, but to the proposal that I should or should suggest that it should not be considered if the ministry does not want to consider it, but definitely, I am committed to the debate of my colleague in the previous debate that I mentioned, so let us become aware of the situation that young people in Croatia have the need for working mobility, that they have to change the place of life, that they can't station themselves as it used to be in a town next to a factory, get a job there and wait for a pension, there is no more. And we definitely don't allow another type of residential construction and we don't encourage the kind of residential construction where apartments can be rented and not that people in those apartments can be such renters that someone can literally throw out overnight or change the lock through the night rather than have certain rights then we don't go in the right direction because we're not going in step with time. And it's my appeal to the ministry to reconsider the possibility, but I won't say state-owned construction, I would never invest state money in housing. Let's find a model for private entrepreneurs who would like to build apartments to provide a certain subsidy for the construction of apartments for rent, for rent and in such a way as to start a process that I think would have good effects. The fact is that local self-governments can do something like that in principle and now they can do it if they want to. No one has banned that possibility, but apparently no one is doing it. It must start an initiative from the national level, I believe that it will be recognised by local self-government and that such a process will start and start to think differently about housing. I'm going to repeat the words just before, so all our young people mostly have some real estate that they're going to inherit, most people, they want to be left alone in the first wave, they want to create their own life, they want to bend their nest. For a while, he'll inherit the real estate of the apartment. At that point they practically have a settled life issue residential and do not need to buy a thing, they can really invest in themselves, they can really do something more on themselves and contribute to the development of society and themselves and create a more satisfying society, a society that has some perspective, a greater and stronger future. Here it wasn't a proposal for these laws, it's not a subject, but it's an initiative, an idea to consider it, to see what the model would be and to move in that direction. So our club, no matter what this part of us isn't, will support these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145344	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected ministers with associates, here we have today's second reading, two sets of laws relating to housing policy and housing of Croatian citizens. I think that today was quite a quality debate here in this House no matter what side it came from, from left and right or middle, I think that there was quite a quality debate and certain remarks that were actually open here, here is said how important it is, as far as the Republic of Romania is specific about housing issues, there were certain surveys that, it seems to me that Croats or citizens of the Republic of Croatia are that others in Europe are owned by residential units, it seems to me that only the first Romania is ahead of us, and that has its own certain historical, historical reasons and not only... certain values of inflation, we know that for a long time there has been inflation in these areas when the value of money has been validated, so that once people could save and save in these properties, and there are some traditional values that young people do not leave home, that they do not go to other countries, so that there are some other reasons, so that regarding the issue of residential, residential, residential and residential settlement issues, I think in particular in this part of the social encouraging housing, I think that there are two certain changes of a considerable quality in that part where the deficit staff in public services can be supported in solving the housing issue, is there really not a public service development in different parts of the Republic, and on the other hand you cannot provide them with, you cannot provide them with a housing issue. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, here's what we can do, specifically, on the question, recently I've been looking at one piece of paper, the question was about Dubrovnik. I've seen the contribution, we know that Dubrovnik Hospital, unfortunately, many of them are engaged in tourism, etc. Few of them decide to come to deal with this issue, the medical care issue down and then the question is that when foreigners or foreigners from other parts of the Republic of Croatia, nurses or certain doctors come to Dubrovnik and they say that they can find a certain housing issue during the winter, however, when summer comes, everyone from the apartments is then going to rent and now I think this is good, and now it would be good to see how much of this state's capacity to help, because that is, in my opinion, a wider social question, the solving of staff, the solving of doctors or nurses in those parts of the Republic, especially during the summer months when these services still have to be available, not only to Croatian citizens, but also to tourists who are there and then we have a problem for Croatian citizens who have come to work in such institutions that they simply can't solve a certain housing issue. Now I don't know if this part here solves one part of the question, but what's good is that in at least some other parts of it, this part is now opening up questions and I find it quite positive in solving these, these, these, especially those deficitary, deficitary frames. Also, given the low interest rates that are present in the Republic of Croatia, I think that this is good as regards the harmonisation of interest rates on public funds for the purpose of implementing the law from 3 to 2% if we know that the current interest rate is somewhere around 3.8%, at least so some information from the CNB, I think that this rate of 2% is certainly favourable and recently was also one survey where it proved to be how much, which means the interest rate at an average apartment in the Republic of Croatia at an interest rate such as now interest rates between 2 to 3% and the interest rate which was between 6 to 7% once, that more than 70.000.000.00 euro has returned to the business bank than today, so we believe that this part of the interest rate issue is certainly a positive step in the burden itself, the price burden is certainly more than the amounting and the average of the citizens. Also what I would like to say is that, which is actually the introduction of the minister himself said that the ban on renting and selling apartments, which is necessarily defined by the purchase contract, was here and many were also media, media were articles of certain, so-called abuses of these POS apartments, and I think now that, with this addition, that part, is regulated. What's important is to say about both laws, we see that here is an encouraging, socially stimulating housing, so the price of POS apartments is somewhere around, about EUR 1,000,00 per square, and on the other hand, when we talk about stimulating, the State's Housing Loan Subsidisation Act will only take part in those apartments up to EUR 1.500,00 per m2. When it comes to showing that there are no two incentive measures that limit certain real estate prices that are flying in the sky today, I think that a young one, a young family, could very hard to solve their particular housing issue, especially if we see that in the market for me very much the price, with the price, that's one of the reasons, one of the reasons we can ask again, we recently saw how much the savings of Croatian citizens who have jumped somewhere, it seems to me for 10 billion kuna and certainly those who find certain surpluses of money if you have, in fact, no interest rates on the market are actually zero, that those who own certain savings, that this part of the savings is directed to the housing market and in such a way that they raise, strongly and appreciate it for reasons why it is more economically more cost them, because in the future, they think that they are better kept value in such housing than the ones in the other markets, which are always said that they are in terms, but in terms with the money, and in terms, and in terms that they're not in terms that they're going to say that they're going to the money. I think it is not true, I think it is not true and that especially if we have said that it is limited to 1,500 EUR and 1,000 EUR there is no reason for prices to go after 3,000 EUR and that this argument that is trying to transfer to the state, that the state is guilty with these two laws and that it has been involved and that it has increased the price, I think it does not stand, I think it certainly does not stand, that it is somewhere else, that the answer is somewhere else, and that I think it is primarily what I said that one large part of the accumulated savings would be especially spent on the Adriatic during the summer, that during the tourist season, that this part of the loan is being redirected into the resolution of residential issues and that part is now honest, it is not under any control and that these prices would be flying to over 3,000 EUR, this particular, and on the Adriatic, because of the inability of this area, you know and for Dubrovnik, the construction of the other side of the money is not really in terms, and the problem that this issue, which is true, and the problem of the importance of the importance of the money, which is true of the EUR, which is one, which is. So take some apartment of 60 square meters, if you want to have a multi-member family that then it goes to the cost of living space and up to 200,000 euros. I think it's with these receipts how much the average income in the Republic of Croatia I don't think they can solve in that context and their housing issue. What we are actually in my replica, and I think that the HDZ colleagues also asked a question, is the issue of this ban on giving or selling these apartments in subsidized housing credits, and I think it would be wise to put it into this final law so that maybe after a year, two or five years, that such cases appear on the market, and then the government will react again somehow, I think it would be this, that it would be good if we had already, we have these two models that we say similar or one or other model someone who chooses it, I think in that part of the context, because I also suggested here that, that, in fact, the purpose of this, these two laws are actually solving the housing issues and remains of young and demographic issues etc. And since the purpose of such a law is, and we have said from the SDP Club, because it is such a purpose and it is working to support these two laws, that, on the other hand, it would limit its abuse and we think it would be good to place such a restriction in this House Loan Subsidisation Act, that someone after 4 or 5 years or 7, 8 years can simply resell such an apartment on the market and this, as my colleague Bačić said, seems to me 14 or 15,000 EUR that they have received from the State, or on the other hand, that if he can sell that apartment, then he has an obligation to return those certain funds to the budget because it certainly does not solve his particular housing issue but to solve the primary settlement of a certain property issue. So as far as these two laws are concerned, I think they're taking steps to resolve housing policy in the Republic of Croatia, but some other issues have been raised here, issues of building these apartments themselves, deficiting personnel. We know that construction must have suffered most, the biggest crisis from 2009 to 2015 in the Republic of Croatia, that they paid the most for this economic downturn. This will certainly mean some of their incentives because they work on a complex product in which they especially withdraw one large other part of the industry, the other part of the industry dragging with them. However, the question of deficiting personnel is now being raised, but these are now some other issues, not these issues that are being resolved under the two laws. So the SDP Club will support these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145346	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Bernarda Topolko will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145347	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, we have two final drafts of the law that will support the club of the CNS, and we are pleased that they are at this moment at the debate for a simple reason so that they can be voted as soon as possible and therefore go into the procedure in September. As regards the final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements on subsidisation of housing loans, the data which says that through the existing Law on subsidisation of housing loans in 2017 and '18. 5,286 families managed to realise a grant for housing loans, the data showing the purpose of which the law, which it was intended to achieve. The law is a priority measure of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to help young families and thus contributes to the implementation of demographic and resourceful and policy in the right sense of the word. Not only that, the law has improved and further improves the situation in the construction sector and contributes to increasingly intensive building of apartments in the Republic of Croatia. We have before us the final draft of the law, as compared to the first reading, all the crucial changes remain the same. The basic amendment to the existing law refers to the additional subsidisation of housing loans for each existing under-age child with an additional year of subsidisation of housing credit. This measure is more than necessary to implement this bill, and we are pleased that the ministry in implementing the existing law has seen that this provision to Croatian citizens, i.e. young families, can be further helped in realising the settlement of the housing issue and that the law can be even better and more effective. The concept of a family household is also harmonised with the definition of household concepts in accordance with the provisions of the Social Care Act for the introduction of a subsidy for existing children and various possible forms of living communities. The interest of citizens in this social and demographic measure is very high and it is indeed good that the existing law allows for a continuity in subsidising housing loans. The statistics mentioned in this final draft of the law explain exactly that, the huge interest of the law. In the light of the first-reading proposal, the only difference in Article 6 in the transitional provision that the procedures will begin under the provisions of the applicable law which are not completed until the date of entry into force of this law will be completed in accordance with the provisions of that law. In the Club of HNS, we support the passing of this law, as I have noted. The final bill came on time so that we could realize it. There is a large number of young families who are eager to do so and see the way out in solving their housing issue despite the rise in the price of real estate we have had the opportunity to hear. And as for the Law on Social Encouragement, I mentioned that we would also support this law, the law was first passed in 2001 and has been changed several times so far. The reason for the changes then and today were market conditions and the economy situations in the country, so such changes are actually necessary since this law is almost all defined in respect of purchase and construction prices. This final bill shows concern for employees working on deficits in public services and gives them support in resolving the housing issue. It shall be made possible except for the construction and purchase of apartments or family houses for the purpose of renting state and deficit public servants during the service. This will certainly contribute to making it easier for disabled workers to decide to accept jobs in places where such professions are lacking, in health care, in education, in science. As regards the Law on renting apartments and protected tenants, it was necessary to make these amendments to the Law on Social Incentives so that all forms of promotion of housing could also apply to protected tenants. Article 8 of the Law provides for assistance in addressing the housing issue of citizens who buy an apartment on the real estate market, which is one of the options for resolving the housing issue of protected tenants especially for the apartments they are now using. It can now be said that all forms of encouraging housing and helping our citizens can also be applied to protected tenants who will now be able to use a special line of POS for existing old apartments. It also changes interest rates due to market conditions, reduces the interest rate on public funds in the POS credit line from 3% to 2%, and this measure will certainly make it easier for citizens and help them resolve their living issue. Because of the more precise definition that land can be purchased from units of local self-government not only to be 25% of the Ethlon price of construction but also not to be higher than the market price, therefore more clearly define the limit heights of the building land price for the construction of apartments. It is also an increasing phenomenon that POS apartments are not primarily used for housing but for other purposes. It is necessary to stop this misuse of public funds in the use of apartments under the POS programme, and therefore it was necessary to introduce this measure by which all new contracts in the purchase of apartments that are to be concluded will contain clauses by which the apartments cannot be sold or leased for 10 years. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement from the proposal of the law in the first reading differs from the introduction of a ban on alienation and the lease of dwellings purchased up to 10 years before the entry into force of this law and is prescribed by the application of this prohibition by registration in the land register. Some have made this difficult, but as far as retrograde law enforcement is concerned, it is considered justified because it is a matter of preventing abuse of public funds. This is about unfair exploitation of state resources and restrictions need to be implemented. This will stop at the end of the resale, or by renting favourably purchased POS apartments, this clause is of course limited size, everyone can have their own apartments, as well as POS, as he wishes before the deadline of 10 years, but first he must repay the funds that the state has invested, of course taking into account the change in living circumstances and the difficult situations that citizens may face, then the early availability of the apartment is granted. Thus, since such charges, everything she has invested in the subsidy, regardless of the moment before the loan expires, the apartment would be offered for sale or rent, so before the deadline of 10 years. The final bill also introduces the possibility that the Croatian Defence and Local Self-Government Department will buy unsold dwellings for the housing care of victims of the Homeland War that are being implemented under the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families. It is a good thing that this need is recognized and this measure is introduced in time in the Final Proposal of the Law. What has been forgotten in this bill is the units of local self-government, but since it has been discussed on the board, the Committee has tabled an amendment, and we will wait for the government's position to declare it. And as far as the bill itself is concerned, I have pointed out that the HNS will support both laws, and I can also point out that on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of all 12 members present on the Committee, all 12 voted in favour of both bill proposals, it just confirms that these drafts of the law are good and that they meet their purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145348	If he wants to, we are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak with a respected representative, Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145349	I would like to thank the Honorable President HS, the Honorable Minister Shtromar with his associates, as the debate is united, and I will try more to adhere to this Act of Subsidized Loans for our young people. I am glad that once again we can discuss this law that greatly helps young people acquire their first real estate and that we actually have a two-reading opportunity here, to make it even better. For us as young people, certain things are very important, it certainly includes quality education, then finding satisfying employment, and then it comes to the turn of definitely solving the housing issue that is really my generation's big step in life. That is why I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and your ministry are working on a concrete multi-annual financial incentive that helps to resolve housing. However, this programme was launched at the time of our colleague Bačić, which means 2011, already with over 2,000 realized requirements, this measure proved to be of quality. What is good is that this government has continued to implement it since 2017. To date, we have over 5300 young users of this measure, which means 5300 young families, satisfied and happy young families, and we have over 500 newborn children within this measure which, given all this data, we can and must view as a demographic measure. As a young person, I am aware of the importance of this life's step, so of course there is still room to improve this law or at least within the ministry to analyse a few demands that I would like to make here. As far as the contest is concerned, he's as we could hear, announced for September this year. But when we talk about these deadlines today, we need to be aware that it is not easy to find an apartment that suits us with both square and location and price and everyone else in a practical month or two days, expecting the owners of the apartments or sellers to wait for us until September even though they are in the situation of our young person to take practically what is offered to them on the market at that moment without great opportunities because they have, like I said, practically a month or two days to solve this really big step in their lives. So if absolute demerition is not possible, we talked about it in the first reading or we wouldn't change things, I would suggest here to be two or more contests over the year, the means are, we know what they are at the beginning of the year, they're defined by the budget, we make two or three or more contests, we share those funds with the number of tenders, and simply the ones that are not used, for example in March, we switch to September or depending on how much we decide the competition will be. Since these funds are defined they will eventually be spent, I believe they will always be interested, but in this way we allow our fellow citizens to use this measure in these other months for which I do indeed repeat that it is extremely good. Also when we talk about lending, this law allows our fellow citizens to build their homes under more favourable conditions, and that is why I believe that we should enable them to buy apartments in new construction that are not yet completed, but are in some final stages of construction. Perhaps the best way for the ministry or the profession to define whether according to the degree of construction or some additional guarantees, but we think that we should, should not limit our young citizens in their choice of property in which they ultimately intend to live. The risk is the same in both cases and in the construction of the house but also in the purchase of the apartment currently in construction but is not in the state, the risk is on the one who is the apartment, the risk is ultimately on the bank that will give the loan. However, this law is essentially a quality measure, a good measure that encourages young people to stay, to resolve their living issue, to change, and that you are proposing today, and I really think that I am really good at correcting my own injustices against those who have children before the conclusion of the contract, which could technically have been only a few days, and let this way and they also get an extension of the subsidy by one year if their child is underage, I think that this is a good way and a good direction. And given all the effects created by this law, I think we should start thinking about a longer-term law now, and in this way we would send a very clear message to young people that we really care about their future. The government of the Republic of Croatia notes both the surplus and the economy is growing, trends are turning positive and I think we can view a longer-term law as an investment in the future, as an investment in us young people. Since I find myself in the phase of resolving my living issue and it really represents a great stress for young people, there are many concerns, many questions, questionnaires, and it would certainly be good for them to have more visions of resolving housing issues such as this subsidisation of interest, such as POS apartments we are also talking about today, such as apartments for rent that work very well in some other countries such as local units have been able to provide both building land and parcels, we are here today squatting and a good proposal for housing, I think it is up to us and that we should strive to simply create a beauty for young people and it is up to them that according to their options, we choose which is the most acceptable and which option will be best for them. I think that only in this way, by helping to solve the housing issue, of course with job insurance, is one of the basic things that young families care about and we can help in this way and improve the demographic image of our cities, our municipalities, our county and ultimately a turn towards better trends that we all strive for together, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145350	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates, Mrs. President. Maria Alfirev is, no, and she's got two replicas, okay, I just got here and I have to get some more hope. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145351	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the time of adjustment is quite fine, but in your individual discussion you mentioned something that I think is extremely important and it is a competition once a year. Because when the competition is once a year, you have a few problems, one problem is that everyone is waiting as a stuck rifle when it will be, that in that period is capacitating APN with 3000 requests, that people have a sense of who will be first, so they'll have some advantage, that there's not enough on the market in principle to wait for it, I absolutely think that the better model would be incomparably, maybe it's not reasonable enough that the competition is continuous throughout the year, but that it might be quarterly, we don't know, 4 quarters or something, and in that way we'd get rid of APN, we already have experience and we see that it's about 2500 requests up to 3000 demands a year, I think it would be incomparably better than this model that we have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145352	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145353	I thank you, Vice President. Well, respected MPs Mrak Taritash, I fully agree with you, I have pointed out, I think that once a year, the competition will certainly stifle the system and the APN and the banking system, especially as it comes after the summer, while some of them may be on an annual basis and definitely my proposal would go whether quarterly, whether twice a year, three times a year, it's at the ministry to make an analysis and to make a decision but certainly it would be better than this one-year-old. Also, the delicacy would absolutely lead us into the situation that we have so far, that he leaves at 9:00, so that everyone can apply for the 1st month. and would probably be used immediately at the beginning of the year. So definitely two or more contests would be from greeting the great work at least my generation with whom I communicate, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145354	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Maximchuk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145355	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you said that this law should perhaps be more long-term, we have agreed today that it is social and demographic, I agree, too, that we should now think about a more long-term law that will encourage our young people to survive and we know what our current situation is so that future generations can be sure that they can in this way improve their conditions for buying the first real estate. We've seen what the interest is, 5300 families have settled their housing issues, they'd still turn a little bit to index, so I don't know, I think it'd be nice to think again if it was best broken down like this here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145356	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145357	I thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members of Maximchuk, that this law is also social, is also demographic, is generally accepted by a wide part of the public and has 7539 users from here in the last six years, i.e. this 2 years and there 2 years when our colleague Bačić was a minister, so we definitely need to think about a longer-term plan and it certainly proved to have some basis in it. As far as the indexation itself is concerned, I was at the start against indexation because I am simply thinking soundly logical that a person living in Dubrovnik, Zagreb or Split, who is certainly highly developed, may not share that development as personal as the city, or the municipality in which he lives, so if we take the price of real estate in one Dubrovnik and the salary of persons in Dubrovnik I think that... [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145358	Thank you, too. Now it's time to discuss Mrs. O'Donnell. Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145359	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I mentioned something in the replica itself, and, of course, I would like to say at the beginning that by reading now the final draft of the law of one and the other that are on the agenda today, I see that from what I mentioned in the first reading, it is not adopted for different reasons, and I will look back at it now during this debate, although I still think that these remarks, especially when it comes to children and discrimination that this should still be considered and respected, because the fact that these are still making some differences between children, and I don't think that this should be the result, not the goal, but the result of the implementation of this law, and it is possible and it is possible that it is still happening. We are speaking of this law, we cannot ignore the fact that we are living in because, dear Minister, before I go any further, I would like to express you, in fact, the surprise and regret that you did not respond to the replicas, then we could somehow evenly perhaps talk further, so here's hoping that you will offer us answers to these our and the end of the debate itself. So we live in Croatia where the perception of corruption is definitely such that it is one of the key reasons why young people go. Likewise in Croatia, according to Eurostat data recently, it is actually purchasing power, in fact per capita GDP per capita, it is evident that Croatia is at the bottom of the EU scale and 37% below the EU average. It's all in fact, it's all actually a framework in which this and these laws should actually act and bring certain results and sure, I hope that a certain number of people, citizens, young people will help solve the basic one, and that's a housing issue because it's really a housing and housing issue, a property, so a roof over your head is one of the key preconditions for quality life, for further, for staying and family together, for staying in a certain place and, therefore, with a job, a prerequisite for quality child education and quality, of course, life. Now, when I say that we must keep in mind, therefore, the moment in Croatia we live in, then it should be said that all those who don't actually have these entrepreneurial powers as we say, we see lately that key people in this government, so here, Minister Kuščević has really had these entrepreneurial powers to create so many properties by 44 years. So all those who don't have such powers, maybe even through these laws, realize exactly what's key, which is their real estate. I hope, once again, that here, and this law, in this way, that it will be possible and it will be and it is certainly good, but what is not good, is not a good thing to create such an atmosphere or such, such statements we listen to in which we should really have one 5.6 real estate by 44 years or that it is very easy and simple in Croatia. And we know that yet another smaller number of people can apply to exactly these competitions that we're talking about because in order to get credit subsidies, to housing loans, then you have to be both residential, or credit, and hand to heart, a large number of young people are not able to do that. For the simple reason that there is no contract indefinitely or has such an average salary that it cannot raise a loan that could also be paid off by subsidising the State in the manner in which it has been postponed by these laws. I would also like to mention once again that the fact that you have decided to make this way once a year and what does it create? It creates again one non-transparency, imbalance, and it does not allow anyone who needs an apartment and who wants to provide a loan with an apartment, does not allow them to get to this opportunity of subsidized loans under the same conditions because they may not be able to find real estate where they want to, where they want to at a time when people want to, when citizens want to do so, and you said that you do not want the competition throughout the year or that it can be applied throughout the year, and then we ask ourselves why or why this subsidy, what is the competition, and why we can't apply for the whole year and I have to mention the respected ministers and your announcements that you really want to allow all those who report to subsidize the loan itself. So once again, I think it would be worth considering here until the end to extend or to make that possibility more, at least multiple times a year. Also, what is still a little more vague, is what are the insurance measures that will not be sold or leased, and that people will really, when they continue to receive subsidies, at the same time be in Germany or Ireland, and at the same time the apartment will be rented, so there are one issues, which we need to take care of because if the state, if all other citizens subsidise someone's credit, then I think they have the right to know what is happening and whether this apartment really serves to solve a housing issue or serves to achieve property. And finally, what I said at the outset is, as far as we see it, or discrimination is being made, because if this were really demographic, one of the demographic measures would not be calculated, you wouldn't be setting up any restrictions, but you would open wide arms for all children and not put for one child born 15 days before receiving a request a year of subsidisation and for those born 15 days after 2 years, you would really take care of it and provide for all children the same conditions and in the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145360	Thank you, thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145361	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Alfirev, you mentioned the powers of Minister Kuščević, but now that I see his powers and his abilities and his flaws then I come to the conclusion that when the HNS entered this government when he sought out which resolutions and ministries he would manage, he was essentially doing a lot of damage to Croatian citizens because when this law was announced, the resolution minister was Minister Kuščević and then if we see how good a man is with real estate and how well he is, I think that Croatia would benefit more than him that he remained a minister of construction and when we see how sloppy and how much he does not know how much to report his assets and how unskilled he is, let's say in this branch then it is completely missed that he is the minister of the administration. Therefore, I think that the HNS has done enormous damage to Croatian citizens when it has just insisted on this portfolio and I think it might be more useful for Croatia if Minister Kuščević remained Minister of Construction and Minister Štromar had been minister of administration when he had to be minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145362	Thank you very much. Is there an answer to that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145363	I answered. Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Djujic, yes, did he do any real damage, so look, it's not just Minister Kuščević who has so much entrepreneurial power, but when I look at it, it's a whole spectrum, it's actually now I don't know who we're going to expect and who's who has so great power that he doesn't know what his property is, that he doesn't know how much of the area of some of his property, that he doesn't know if it's a barbecue or if it's a real living area, whether it's the surface of a cottage whose value is greater than he thought Mercedes was found in the yard, so maybe we can follow this expectation and some... what kind of events. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145364	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Sasa Djujic's turn, I don't need to read what the topics are, you know, right? Thank you. [[Invadica Djujic: So you don't know.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145365	Well, Vice President, I've been here since the beginning, I don't have to adapt who you are so I know what the topics are, thank you very much. Yes, and since I've already said a lot about this subject in all the law readings, both the first and second times in 2017, 2018, I'm really not going to be full anymore and repeat all the things I've said, so what I want to say today is that I remind myself that in fact this law came in response to the announcement by then Minister Kuščević in response to the criticism of the public opposition to the measure of taxation of the first property introduced by this government by tax reform in 2016 and when it was criticised, then the Minister of then Kushčević fired here on the night of the debate, we're going to introduce a measure of state to return 50% of credit to young families and then it has a little acid because, as it was announced then, they didn't have any solution at night, and he waited for HNS to enter the government and then HNS, or Minister Štromar, respectively, went with that law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Now what do I want to point out? I'm sorry that you didn't accept my remark regarding the first reading that was, and that's to give up the development index as a criterion, the percentage of the subsidy of this loan. I see some HDZ colleagues agree with that intention, and I think that's good, and I'm going to say what makes me think that, that's what I should do. So, in the first law adopted in 2017, 50% of the credit subsidy was, independently, in which area of the Republic of Croatia you lived. So only with changes to the first ones that took place in 2018, last year at 4.5 months somewhere at this time was the extended subsidy period to 5 years but the percentage of the subsidy per development index was introduced. So when we talk about cities like Split, Zagreb, Rijeka, Zadar, as colleagues mentioned, there a young family can get a maximum subsidy of 30% credit. In the developed, second group means it increases by groups by 3% then, in the second group, say where Sinj is, it seems to me that Plitvice Lakes is then about 39%, Gospić is 36% and 51% of subsidies can get environments like Gline, such as Gunja which means completely undeveloped by the development index. Now, why is that unfair? First of all, I think that Gospić is not a developed environment either, so that he does not have 50% subsidy from young people who decide to live there, to create a family and stay in that environment, so in Lica and in those parts. In all these underdeveloped environments, the prices of squares are smaller in themselves. Therefore, it is another additional injustice compared to the city of Rijeka, Zadar, Zagreb, that is to say, these developed environments where the square, the price of squares is higher and therefore the percentage of subsidies is smaller and the total subsidy is much, much smaller than in these underdeveloped areas by the development index. And that's why I think there's a big difference here and you said yourself that exactly the largest number of requests come from these parts that are called developed, so Rijeka, Zagreb, Split, or cities, the centers of the county. Why is that? Because young people get jobs there and go to start a family where they have jobs, where they can work, and where they can get that loan back. What's a young family gonna do in Gunya, I'm asking you. So how many young families can get a job in Gunja so they can even get a loan, buy an apartment there, start a family there, get 51% subsidy, and then for the next 15 to 30 years depending on the length of the loan, that loan is neatly returned to Gunja. I'm not saying that Gunjo doesn't need to be helped, but it doesn't need to be limited to these things because in the end, this really comes down to subsidising only interest to banks and the difference in the price of squares that happens when these competitions are dissipated. The second thing again, I said in the first reading, every year in the 4th month you do changes to laws that are essentially cosmetic, reduce the percentage of subsidies, extend the number of years, in sums of money, and in the sum of the amount that the young family eventually gets, we're practically here, we haven't moved, that subsidy is essentially the same. So I come to the conclusion that you Minister Shtromar do these changes every year just to say that you do something to be then, because you always media update this topic, first reading, second reading, now there will be a competition in the 9th month, then you will write about it again in the media. And you're basically doing what you do from hollow to blank just to create the impression that something's done, so it's not a work, it's a work report. And you don't have any essential answers to your problems. So the problem is the interest that the bank can raise after the suspension of the subsidy, it says in the contracts, so as long as the subsidy, depending on 5, 7, 9 years of interest cannot be changed, then the bank can freely raise interest, that is the problem I expect the government to respond to. The other thing is the rise, the unrealistic rise in the price of the apartment squares due to the subsidies of this guy. So it's known that every fall of every year there's a contest going on, that they're going to start buying apartments and then the real estate dealers are raising real estate prices. Now, that's the same problem you haven't found the answers to. If you'd come before us with a bill of amendments to the law that would answer those questions, I'd say hello and I'd say all the honours and with this hollow, empty, year, two, 30, 36% get the impression that you're doing free marketing and I asked you on your first reading, are we going to have a change this year in the 4th month? I'll bet with you that we will, and you'll probably make a change to what my colleague Alfirev was saying again, now you'll understand the second year that it would be good to extend to two years of subsidisation to families that already have children instead of the current one. And you're going to remember 100% of the second year in the 4th month and then you're going to do these changes and then the media is going to write again about the good size of HNS in the government, how you're doing great, you're encouraging demographic policy, and then there's going to be a new competition, the prices of squares will continue to grow, the interest banks will be able to change and we'll have an injustice against these differences that we still have. And that's why I'm saying here I have to say sad, in the first reading I gave you a proposal to give up on it, you kept it, I don't know if you're convinced it's right, are you convinced that young families in Gospić can only have 36% of the subsidy, that it's a developed environment and that they don't need 51%, that's what I'm wondering, whether you think it or think it's just gonna keep that one tool for some changes next year, so maybe with this kid maybe next year you realize OK, here now you should be 50%, now we should put 40%, it's an election year, now we're going to pick it up and move. But you are still doing wrong, so the young family who bought this program in 2017 in Gospić is paying him 50% of the state's loan, so if there is a war 3,000 kunas, 1500 kunas paid by the family, 1,500 kunas paid by the state. Who bought 2018 the state pays 1000, the young family pays 2000 kuna. So that's what's unfair. I ask you to find the answers to that question. Here I suggest you let the government amendment come, let's put it to a vote, let's give up the subsidy by the development index, let's give up 50% of everyone. In the underdeveloped environments, I repeat the amendments, and the prices of squares are lower and it is, and already there with less money buys a bigger apartment, buys a house etc. So here's what I'm going to conclude with this part. I'm sorry about that, I hope you'll listen to me, here, you have more time and give it a change. As far as this POS is concerned, I'm glad that a solution has been found to limit sales and rent apartments. I saw in the bill of law that in exceptional circumstances, when relations are violated, for example. if someone who has received an apartment under a special programme loses his job and can no longer serve credit or so on, that it can be made possible to sell before the end of 10 years by a decision of APN, however, I do not think that it is sufficiently detailed in the law. Will an APN commission now sit and assess who it is, whose living circumstances have changed so much that you can enable him to sell real estate early or rent or what are the criteria? Who will make the criteria, and how will that part be resolved? Here, so that's my only objection to this other law, so let's call it that, so I don't think it's precise enough how this future commission will determine who the living circumstances have changed, but I'm glad it's also foreseen because life carries all sorts of things. So, people take a 30-year loan, they lose their jobs, they can't just force the opportunity to service it anymore, and then maybe through some lease, they could at least close the loan war, and I think it's good to make it possible in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145366	The first replica, Mrs. Pryce. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145367	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, you mentioned that in fact through these laws, they will not lead to any fundamental changes, which is true because they will not solve what is important, but it is possible that they will create any further difficulties, even for the users of these subsidized loans themselves. But what's particularly important to me here is that the fact that the government couldn't boast about what was good, and that was a tax exemption to the first real estate and that's what was good. In 2016, 12 thousand users used this very possibility, however, it was abolished because it could not be boasted, so they had to come up with something new And they came up with this very thing. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145368	Answer, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145369	Well, I'd like to say that both measures have been held. Because we now have a young family to whom the state pays 50% of the credit, and then when it pays a tax on the first real estate it didn't pay to the tax reform of this government in 2016, then basically that amount of housing at 100,000 euros, the tax is about 30 thousand kuna and then by very simple mathematics we get that it's already eaten the tax for the first year of this subsidy. So, and it would be good to go back to that part again, so with this measure to keep this measure, of course, but to go back to that part of taxing on the first real estate, where we're going back again, so the state is going back to the state budget, so that state wouldn't cost anything, or possibly reduce a small part of the tax revenues, but in terms of demographic measures and incentives to young families, I don't think it should be a big problem for this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145370	Mr. Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145371	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Djujic, an index of development, yes, he raises a certain doubt, however, you know very well that it is a composite factor, a number of elements that make him as such. Maybe thinking, we might as well think, the population per mile square. Then some environments wouldn't be considered at all. So we think that if it is, and we have to have certain criteria, that the development index is some average of a certain criterion to what extent it can be subsidized. As far as this measure is concerned, that's an option. It's not a commitment. And your remarks in general on both laws went in the direction of Croatia, the state where both banks and real estate and everything, that it is social property. Then we could carry out your remarks through the law. In the Croatian state as it is today, some things are simply impossible and I think this is A good part of demographic measures and... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145372	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145373	I'm always for criteria if they're applicable, but you've just said certain shortcomings, means more parameters, and that's why I think it's the simplest and most honest place for everyone 50%, as it was in 2017. And how do you say the criteria don't need to be chosen by people who get credit? That's where the quickest finger is. There's no quantifiable criteria there. Whoever answers first, dum, his girlfriend. That's, say, a criterion for granting subsidies. And here you make a percentage criterion. Why, because this first has to do with money and the state does not want to free up additional funds, and we watch every day lauding the finance minister about the extraordinary charge of the budget, the drop in interest, etc., so I think today is the climate in Croatia so that more money can be released and 50% can be subsidized. So we can't have double criteria in determining criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145374	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Giujic, I agree with you. 36% for the 6th group of development is small, it would be good if it were 50, if it were 100%, it would be good if it were 100% and the state would return completely to the credit. But you should know that for these four years, the law of the state has set aside 450 million kunas on one side. On the other hand, you also forgot to mention that it is no longer 4 years, as it was before, but now it takes 5 years and again in a certain way compensates. For the first, second, third and fourth groups,... Gives more to the credit user than before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And me, I think we should take care of that, too. And we need to keep in mind that while you were, while your government, that this law was not at all, that then the subsidy was 0. That's when you were the one who ended it, that it wasn't. So you keep forgetting that, but on the other hand, you're looking for more, which I can agree if there's enough money. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145376	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145377	So I think the money today has enough, unlike when it was our government, when we had to pay back your government's debts in which you sat, Fimi Media affairs, but I don't like my colleague Bacic, there's no need to talk about it like that, but let's just say the first part of your debate is okay, so that's what we're talking about. You're now saying it's taking longer, but that's exactly what I said. Before you had 50% subsidy for 4 years, you now have 30% subsidy for 5 years, so in the sum of money that's I don't know, 1,000 in the first case is 1,000 and in the second. So it's a change from hollow to empty at all what I was talking about. But let's just say I followed your debate in the first reading, and you've personally advocated that we don't limit this contest to the fall itself. It's that all year round and I see that the government has rejected you, your government. So, I'm sorry they didn't listen to your good proposal, like they didn't listen to my good proposal about the 50% subsidy. So, I'm giving you support for your proposal, give you support and you support mine. 'Cause I think he's good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145378	Thank you very much. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145379	I think that I hope that the legislator's intensity wasn't to want to do something good to create injustice. And therefore, just like you, I expect the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to correct the injustice against those users who passed the competition and received 50% of the first 4 years of subsidisation, and there was no child at that time as a easing circumstance or additional subsidisation of 2 years. And I think that there actually needs to correct that injustice against the people who, by chance, have applied to the contest a year or two before compared to the people who are going to apply now. I believe that really is not the law enforcement in one way or another, and that can be corrected still with the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145380	Thank you. Mr. Djujic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145381	I fully agree with you, Mr. Glasovac, and yet I think one injustice can be corrected, and this is just one year of subsidies for couples who already have children. So, and it should be put on for 2 years, as well as couples who just get kids after signing a contract, because the cost of raising a child is equal to whether they get today or in a year. So the child has equal needs and goods and diapers and kindergartens and food and education, etc., it costs the same cost, and how much less money it costs to repay the loan. And I think it's a good step forward, which has been introduced for the already existing children of people who are reporting for new competitions, but I mean, let's upgrade it, let's get that subsidy up to two more years, because you can't say that you're limited by means, because you don't know how many couples that entered without children in this relationship over the period of time get kids, so, and here you have A controlled story. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So, but we can support it both ways. And I think it's fair to subsidize equally. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145382	Thank you. Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145383	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Djujic, you forget that the SDP government had no subsidies at all, and now you're following the wisdom to actually attack and speak to the ministry that such a law should not have gone into parliamentary procedure, and in fact I remind you, in the first proposal of this law, you will see in the debate itself with the interested public of the local administration and self-government units also discussed it. The indexation is the hardest part, and we all who worked on it know that it's hard to bring those criteria by any parameters. Here, as far as I know, he's 31 to 50%, so she exists, and I agree with what you say about the town of Gospić or me about the town of Imotski, the question is what the public needs to know, so this law was passed out of cooperation, and because of the units of local self-government. So he wasn't brought in because of someone imaginary but because of them and people, and people in that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145384	Thank you. Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145385	My colleague Babic, this is an important topic for me, and I think it is a very important topic for Croatian citizens and our young family, so I am not going to spoil it with what the HDZ government did, what the SDP government was doing, which you and counterpart Bacic are constantly warning about what our government was doing. So, this law proposes a coalition partner of our government who is now sitting in your government, so you could at a tight cabinet discuss with them who did what to the government, but what I want to say. So my debate is all the time pointing to, in my opinion, the lack of this law. And I wouldn't have mentioned the development index at all if it hadn't been for you in the first draft of the law of 2017. So it wasn't there, it was a grant 50% to everyone, then you suddenly remembered after a year that it would be fair to introduce a development index. I don't think that was fair. And so I warn you, or I warn you, of the failure that I consider to have occurred and that it goes back. how it was because I think it's fairer to everyone, and the law of 2017 shows that it's possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145386	Thank you. Now it's Mrs Grozdane Peric's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145387	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleague and fellow Members, and listening to the discussions of some colleagues, I have the advantage of doing this part of my business life and meeting with the House Sales Act, first of all, on which there is a household right, how to get to those funds, and then how these funds when it was the first Encouragement Act, as much as possible and allow many young people to reach the roof over their heads. So when I listen to colleagues like this who have never thought about it, then I see that they lacked much, knowledge and do not know that in previous laws it was in fact that 100,000 kunas had the right of young families in areas of special state care, they received these funds in construction material and they could not achieve those young families in areas that were not, therefore Zagreb or any other city. So, what am I saying? That with this law, how life is looking for new solutions, and every change is actually in line with the life needs of families and young families who now and today need to solve their housing problems, and then in this context, every improvement means a lot. It is mentioned here that the index of development, ep I am just talking about, is set precisely for that reason that all families of young people would have the right to use some improvement or some advantage I say, before, by the previous applicable laws could not use and therefore in this part I think that this is an optimal solution, regardless of what some do not want to admit. Why is that an optimal solution yet? So because government measures when they were in the context of the development of units of local self-government then the assumption was that these units of local self-government with the strengthening of fiscal capacity would create certain preconditions for municipal, business and all others and allow them to develop and thus attract people and investors in one way and thus retain young people in these areas and that Croatia is developing in all directions and not to concentrate again in cities alone. I therefore believe that all of this that you have proposed here is very high quality and starting with the reduction of interest rates, that it is envisaged here and those situations where through the House Loan Subsidisation Act, additional subsidisation is arranged by the child, then it is also very good-qualityly resolved in the Law on Society of Incentive Housing and the amendments where the APN can be offered at the purchase of the Croatian Defence Ministry and the Local Self-Government Unit in order to provide housing care for the victims of the Homeland War from the area where the property is located, therefore the possibility of using and selling these remaining properties is extended in order to law all that life in those areas of demand. Also, through Article 28 of the basic law and here Article 8 of the amendment and the addition where it is more clearly defined how if anything happens to any of the users, death, serious illness, divorce, etc., how this is further regulated and especially what I think is good, what you have put behind the words of deficiting professions in Article 10b of the basic law, or in Article 30b of the basic law. Why does it matter? Namely, in the law that has been so far and it has been improved in the National Journal 57/2018, there have already been some improvements and here we see that it is possible to regulate relations much more quality in a way here only to find, where you can say what public means, how you can encourage construction and reconstruction, building up, family houses etc. So here it is possible that units of local self-government and I do not know how many units of local self-government have applied and how many of them have brought such new regulations and laws, or through the implementation of the budget, that they have made or special their own regulations, where they have allowed potentially extra funds to channel through in this way to enable natural persons to build family houses, to upgrade them, to enable there some new housing and new quality, and also here it is possible that units of local self-government can also be included through their normative acts. So what we have is the situation that you have and cities of very powerful cities financially, which cannot and could not in this way provide apartments precisely with deficiting interests such as doctors, nurses and other occupations because it was essentially unregulated by law and then it was a question of whether this investment was justified and how we can justify this investment through our normative acts. That's why it's such a very high-quality solution because all the extra funds, therefore, from what cities and those who are, I say, financially powerful, can then channel part of it, and that it's not just social housing. This is what was a restriction in the previous law, in previous laws, where you don't have so many socialities, but you have people who need to secure the apartment, so it doesn't necessarily have to be a social case in order to have the right to the apartment and in this way, so it's possible that it's well recognised and that those who have decided to change for this or that reason the place or place that they can then, can make quality implementation, and that all decisions made by the representative bodies of these cities are really legal and that the investments of these funds are really legal. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145388	Now it's Mr. Ante Babic's debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145389	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, has been said so much through all clubs, but also through individual debates, so I think not only today but also in that first reading that maybe I should just repeat some things and I will touch perhaps one or two things that we have discussed on committees, especially on the Committee on Labour and Pensions, which I think is important to say about this Final Proposal of the Law on subsidisation of housing loans. So, I don't want to believe at all by listening to some colleagues to even pass some law in HS, excluding that possibility of some interesting lobbies for the benefit of Croatian citizens, without him really going to their advantage. What has been particularly apostrophealed, and these are indices of the development of certain areas, and we must be aware and agree with our colleagues in the opposition that it is very difficult to find criteria that would satisfy all, therefore, looking from Konaval to Ilock, from Ilock to Kamenjak in Istria, and especially not to speak to the hinterlands of Imotska krajina and Sinjska, Vrlička, I do not know, Banovina do, to our Slavonia. So it's very hard to find a fair criterion that we'd all be satisfied with, we're aware of for many years and today when we're in power and when the SDP was actually always talking about these categories as some kind of bad categories, destroying one, and actually getting some other areas. What we really need to say is, this law is to encourage the demographic restoration of our society, what the minister said, an urban regeneration of the settlement, what you were talking about and actually to encourage the reduction of the emigration of young families from the Republic of Croatia. In the very proposal for this law and the final proposal of this law on committees were actually talked about certain nuances and it is good that this was apostrophe in this debate today, to remove certain administrative and bureaucratic barriers and I think that the competition itself related to this law was transparent and clear and that there were no problems so far. Two categories which, in this final bill and the bill itself, should be said, are first linked to persons with disabilities, with a disability greater than 50%, therefore, physical damage and this credit subsidy period is extended by two years and, in order to strengthen the demographic renewal itself, the time of subsidisation of the credit for two years for each living child, or for the adopted child, if the child is adopted or born during the period of subsidisation of the credit. I think this is a correct and fair provision and that no one should get angry at this, though, we should say hello. The conditions of self-subsidisation are governed by the Law on subsidisation of housing loans and guidance on the way the Agency works and the provision of real estate to APN in the implementation of the Real Estate Act itself. So, it's about who can and how to answer the call, I think it's a problem for this part of 45 years, and it's actually a problem because of the conditions for obtaining housing credits that actually establish credit institutions and we're powerless, I think that Batinić said it very well, it's not really about social property of the state, APN and banks, so in order to be able to do something, we're open market and everything is subject to change, maybe this law will eventually be subject to change again, but it's also for the benefit of Croatian citizens, especially for younger, younger families. I said and I'll say it again, and I've had some questions about local self-government units coming from underdeveloped areas, about self-subsidisation, but I think this 30 to 51% credit rate criterion is correct. Whether it's fair enough or not, we could talk about it, so all that when a state or government makes certain laws, whether it's about child benefits where you have to put certain limits, so that one kuna is always a problem for you and for some other criteria, I know it's hard and that I understand the ministry and all those people who worked on it. On the other hand, I do not believe that all those who have worked on the proposals of these two laws, I do not believe through both the professional public and the interested public and the units of local self-government that their proposals as such are not understood, accepted and implemented in this law because of them and adopted. The other thing is that certain things may be desires, as one thing, and the possibility is something else is the ministry as such should be rejected. And it refused. That is what it has given in its argument regarding this final bill of law. I think the minister, if I'm not mistaken, you said that this proposal was about 7,000 requests, and that in these young families, about 700 children were born and that it was a demographic measure. Demographic measures and policies are not the same policy, it is always medium- and long-term, and you can't take any measures overnight to improve our demographic image. It is bad in the Republic of Croatia and we are aware of it and a number of factors are related to demographic policy or a poor demographic image, unrelated for just one year, for one government, but it lasts for many years. Perhaps it is up to all of us to change one public picture to send positive arrows to Croatian society that must not be apathic, lethargic, compositative and that will also contribute to the change of images in society itself, and thus, I am sure better demographic images. Of course, all the measures the Government takes, and it takes through the Ministry of Demography, Family and Youth, through the Ministry of Finance, through the Ministry of Construction, therefore, as far as I know and the intensity and instruction that all the laws that come, and may have a demographic measure, are implemented in every law. Is that enough? That's not enough. Yesterday, in her address, the president said that in terms of both education reform and health reform and tax reform, reform of all reforms is, in fact, a demographic recovery or demographic reform. And we need to be aware of that. In this light, I am looking at this law and this final bill and I am sure that it will help young families. Maybe, not to the extent that we want to, and we'd like to, be aware of our financial opportunities, but also the realities that are on our market. Something that I am obliged to point out regarding the Committee on Labour and Pension System has been amended on our proposal. 11 of this law because there was a technical error, therefore, because of the words of Art. Article 6 should be replaced. 7. Since it is also prescribed that a reduced interest rate is not applied to apartments before the entry into force of this law and I asked the minister how much APN can control these things through the grantshop, I'm sorry I wasn't there, I don't know if you answered. But I think it can, the secretary of state was clear on the board, that it is possible and that it will go in this direction so that certain things are not misused, especially as such coming from the state budget or subsidising them themselves, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145390	Thank you, too. The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145391	Thank you very much, dear fellow Babic. I'm actually reporting for a reason why you said you didn't know there were any problems. You can never pass a regulation without some kind of problem. In 2017 42 requests were rejected. One of those 42 requests that were rejected was bound, or by one lady, which is, the limit is that you must be less than 45 years old. She put up with everything before she was 45. The moment her request was resolved, she was 45 years old and one day, and she was these 42 requests that were rejected. Therefore, you can never have all the elements, so there might always be a wise thing to say at the moment of submission of the request, this was at the moment of resolution, ma'am. She answered, I said that unfortunately, she's answering the wrong address, it's just like that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145392	Answer, Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145393	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash. Since you have great experience, what you say can happen on many examples and in the local environment, in the regional environment, in the state environment. I don't know how or if there's a possibility, so the law is clear, but I think certain rules could be prescribed exactly what you said, whether at a time of submission, or when a request is resolved, I think it's so unfair and it's an injustice that simply cries out in the sky to someone for one day or for what needs to be done when something happened didn't solve that problem. I don't know from your experience whether it's possible, but I would leave that possibility, I don't know, in the government, if the minister had discretion or the secretary of state, to do something like that without answering or not breaking the law. I think that would be correct and fair to those who, in this case, filed a request.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145394	Thank you. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145395	My colleague Babić, here, you mentioned the development index again, I will repeat again, so there is no ideal solution, but I think that this solution that was proposed in the first 50% subsidy law to everyone was the most just. And I'm going to do it again once again, here, a little bit of looking at the advert now that you've had the debate, so other than the subsidy itself, let's say, the price of real estate in Gospić, where the subsidy is 36% of 850-1000 euros square. In Rijeka, where the subsidy is 30%, 1400-2500 euros. In Zagreb, 1600-3000 euros, where 51% of subsidies in Gunja and Petrinja are for 16 thousand euros buy a 150-square house or a 50,000-square house. So if we all had 50% as they had under the first bill of law that was, that's the fairest thing, and these undeveloped environments are already at the very cost. squares of subsidized [[Intruder: Thank you]] But no one could say about this injustice we now have with the development index. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145396	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145397	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague Djujic. What you've been saying, I've done it several times on committees and some working groups, and that's true, so the cost of costing squares of one apartment is not the same in different parts of the Republic, and according to that logic someone in Zagreb, Rijeka, Velika Gorica is subsidized far more than someone in an undeveloped area, which is also “hendicipated” in one such area compared to those in larger urban areas. ... So, by the way, you mean the opposite? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, because it's a larger subsidy, it's a bigger subsidy. ... Okay, well, in any case, it's harder to assess and that's why it's hard to find the right criterion, maybe if there are a few dozen, maybe we could come up with some kind of central assessment about that criterion, but it's going to be repeated to you everywhere and always, in one of my cases, it's going to have to meet something and tell the price of that property, and there's no real estate market in that area at all, so how do we do that? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145398	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. This morning, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I was talking about both laws, and now I would just like to say a few more notes which I did not say at the time, and first I will start with the replica answered by Djujic, which refers to me as being on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives in a way that the public call is not published in September, but that at the beginning of the year there is no rush to the application of certain Croatian citizens who are involved in the implementation of the law itself, I did not say it either on behalf of the club or individually, and what I said here in this explanation. I said that it would be good for the government to consider that this law should be a permanent law, that it is not only valid for 2019 and 2020, but that it applies to 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, as the POS applies, as many of the laws in Croatia are not limited to 2 years, so that in the budget projections for 3 years we secure the funds, but thus this law can last longer and then, in a certain way, it obliges all future governments to continue to implement the new law, but here the government has replied in its explanation that it is not acceptable for the reason that the problem is constantly open or continuously open public calls, in sources of funds or financial constraints. Therefore, I am not talking about when a public call will be published, whether it will be in September or in January, but I was talking about that it would be good to keep this law permanent until it is called off, until it is changed, until it is put out of effect, but the Government has concluded, I believe that the Government of 2021 will, with a new law or the same law as it was in 2011, with some improvements that will probably be, make some new solutions to this current solution that we will adopt with such a final draft of the law, or with such a law. The other thing I wanted to mention, it's that in law I'm looking for him here right now, so I can't find him, but it doesn't matter, we're talking about the maximum effective interest rate of 3.75. Since we know that today in Croatia and outside Croatia are in effect lower interest rates than they were when the law was passed, not to say, I think it was 2011. By the time we started with the law, the effective interest rate was 4.1 and we had already put it below 4, today 9 years later, I think that effective interest rate would be well below 3.75 and it would be good, because clearly then it would reduce not only the obligations of individual owners but it would then significantly reduce the funds for discharging from the state budget. So, as far as this item is concerned, I think the public call to be sent to the bank during the summer, that we will get then and then a lower interest rate than the one prescribed, which is legally defined, so it says at the maximum amount, I think it will be significantly below that amount. The third thing I also wanted to say, we last year, exactly a year ago, I think June 14th passed a law on amending and supplementing the House Rental Act. We have thus far committed the Government to seek, I do not know if this is the programme of measures which would have been established by the programme, I would have done an analysis of all protected tenants in relation to their assets, in relation to their views on how to resolve the housing issue, and we know that by 2023, if I did not cheat or 2024, I do not remember until the end, where they would have to move out of the apartments where they have the status of a protected tenant, but on the other hand, the state with a number of measures would allow these protected tenants and, on the basis of one survey, analysis or whatever we want, we can call it, that through a number of measures that the state has and guides to its citizens, and thus the Law on Social Encouragement, to determine the number of interested, protected tenants that they can be resolved through this model after the expiry of the deadlines laid down for the amendments to the laws and the law. So, I don't know if this programme is working, which is the phase, as I recall, in the conclusion that we proposed on behalf of the ruling majority clubs, we wrote that the Government was reporting to the Croatian Parliament after the end of the programme, so that many of those doubts, remarks, suggestions that were heard here in HS, and also of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were interested in the solutions stemming from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renting Apartments, we could in a certain way be able to respond in a quality way with a single programme that would mean then and respected, respecting the status of protected tenants. So, I think it would be a good idea if, after a summer break, the government would introduce us to the achievement of the programme, to see exactly, if we can know the exact number of protected tenants, to see if and how interested they are in solving their housing issue by virtue of the Law on Encouragement Building, that we know what the least important thing is in which cities, where it is, is such an interest because according to this, it seems to me that I have read from the reasoning of amendments and the addition of the Law on Incentive Housing is said to be building at the moment at 18 locations in 4 cities. Therefore, whether what is being built today is in any way related to this programme and the survey, this analysis that should come from the very Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renting Apartments. So, it would be good if this program, here it really came to HS the way we did here at HS and suggested and how we adopted it. In the end, I will say, therefore, that we support one law and another. I believe that in September when a public call is made, this law will break a record compared to all the years so far, and we know that, I say, nearly 8,000 apartments have been sold under this House Loan Subsidisation Act so far and many families and many young people will respond to this request. I would be most pleased, most fortunate if the relationship between the requirements for the purchase of apartments and the requirements for building houses changed. As we know from experience so far, much more requirements apply to, buying apartments, and a very small number of housing buildings or building houses, family houses, it would be good to change that, in that way we could say that more requirements refer to rural areas where otherwise they are in the practice of these people living there, building family houses, and less housing in several residential buildings. Therefore, if in the 9th month we had such a response in a way that there are more, than that there is a significant increase in the number of housing requirements, I think that we could talk about success and further reflection in terms of development and better living conditions in cities, in smaller towns and in smaller communities because as we can see they are mostly there, the largest number of demands refer to large Croatian cities, and the fewer requirements apply to smaller settlements and smaller municipalities, and in that sense, here we support one and the other law, and in any case we will, I am in favour of continuing its realization even after 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145400	Mr. Djujic has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, in referring to my replica, Bacic simply wasn't telling the truth. So, the proposal for this law that we have received states that Branko Bačić is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club in the first reading proposes to consider the adoption of a law which does not restrict its application by years, and that it applies continuously, and not only according to advertising public calls, and since then, the Government has said not to accept this because the problem with constantly open or continuously open public calls in sources of funds or financial constraints, so that colleague Bačić [[Intruder: Time, time]] I said right, but you're the only one who can make it right. [[Intruder: Mr. Djujic time]] If it's not good, what's inside is what's in it. [[Intruder: Mr. Djujic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145402	We have to stick to time. Thank you. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145403	Dear Representative Branko Bačić, I would like to ask you, in this system you are in some way encouraging young people to take credit. However, we all know that money in this system is created exclusively by taking credit and young people will take credits or receive their principal, but the money to pay interest on these loans has never been created, so let's just say the bank let's tell you that 100,000,00 EUR credits, and you have to pay back EUR 150,000,00 through I don't know, 20. Or as many as it is. And that 50,000,00 EUR from where people will pay it back, or where that total mass of debtors will pay it all back. These solutions that you have where you push people into debt are only an introduction to a new financial crisis whose event is only a matter of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145404	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145405	... Mr. Vice President. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Comrade Pernar, you're wrong, we don't push young people to take loans, but we encourage young people to solve the housing issue. To solve the housing issue, I don't know what's the way today, only if his parents don't solve it, that the housing issue solves by raising the loan, by raising the loan. It will be done by someone who can, who has a job indefinitely, who works indefinitely and in this way the state tells him if you take credit we will help you in a way that 5, 7, 10, 12, 6, 8. We're helping you repay the loan, but obviously yours, you're not interested... on my replica when you left, and then, well, then I don't need to even answer anymore. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145406	Mr. Pernar was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145407	Thank you. It's just that it's insulting. my common sense. [[/Intruder: Which article is this?]] And it doesn't matter what the article is, the point is that free flats [[Then no, then you have to, then you have to, then you have to sit down.]] They give asylum seekers, and they don't give young families free apartments to HDZ gentlemen, that's the problem. [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar if you do not know which article, you must, excuse me, you must sit down, with a reminder you must sit down, with a warning]] This can solve the problem of housing, not of pushing people into loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145408	Thank you. You don't have to leave, you can stay if you want. Mr. Lonchar's having an argument. A microphone, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145409	Excuse me. I've seen a lot of good ideas today, thinking through the application of this law and suggestions. What I want to look at is in art. 28, and this is my colleague from the board already already and she said that when it comes to local administration units, they can sell the house or apartment ten years ago or rent it. What's going on? The municipality or city sign an APN contract on the purchase of an apartment or house and the same under this law cannot sell or rent for 10 years and, please, your ministers to respect this appeal and to allow municipalities and cities to rent a house or an apartment for 10 years because they will eventually give it to the municipality or the city unless it can rent it. Anyway, we take care of our people who and... social categories, even so, will help people in a way that they can use a house or apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145410	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145411	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the HS, distinguished ministers, state secretary, assistant minister. So we have two laws in front of us, one about subsidies, that's what we call it, and the other about POS. I very rarely, almost never discuss what this government is, which is the government, someone was in one government, someone was in another government, and some were in all governments, and then there was a more simple debate. Equally, I'm really taking this opportunity, very rarely we have a chance for ministers to be with us. Usually, if they did, they'd stay at the opening and leave, so I'm really using the opportunity to say, "Here, Deputy Prime Minister, that is, Minister Stromar is here with us, which points to two things." The first thing he cares about is hearing from the MPs and the other thing, that he cares about those two bill proposals. Of course, if there was always a decimal behind it, but it would have been good if he had responded in replicas, and then the debate would have been simpler for us. What I said on behalf of the club, I will repeat one sentence and in an individual debate. So to our fellow citizens, we should offer the young families a leprosy. A beauty, so everyone will choose what is acceptable to him. Someone will be acceptable to enter the POS system, someone will be eligible to subsidize housing loans, someone will be acceptable to POS+, someone will decide on the apartment, someone will decide on the house. So many more of them are still those who choose apartments than houses, and that's a beauty that needs to be offered by the state, but that effort that should be made by cities. And now we have laws in front of us, we can do them a little bit like this, a little bit like that, of course, that in the election year they will be strengthened in their desire to show that the current government is a very big friend to their fellow citizens, but my key question is what is next? What do we do next? What do we do next? How will we deal with housing problems further? Neither does the state have a state-level housing policy, and some cities have tried it, but they were absolutely unsuccessful in all this. What opened up in the POS problem, which you're solving by this amendment and by supplementing the law, means when someone decided to abuse the apartment they bought in POS, they never intended to move into it, especially when we're talking about municipalities and cities that are by the sea, but they immediately decided to use for summer apartments and you have it on the continent, that someone never moved into their apartment and now you've settled this by law. What are you gonna do when someone who got a loan grant does the same? He doesn't even enter the apartment? The apartment sold neatly and in a few years it's been said, I'm without an apartment, I'm going to the next subsidy? So that's something to think about. It's something that opens up the problem. So, but in doing so, I think it would be wise to consult a little and with different experts on constitutional rights, sure that those to whom the first one you ask to settle everything under this law will be brought up by a constitutional suit because they will have a feeling, so that's my right. Yeah, if he decided to leave and take out his own loan. But it's not at a time when he's using a state subsidy, whether or not he's using POS. Therefore, it would be good, as Minister Stromar pointed out, we listened to the citizens. So it would be good for you to listen to these discussions that we're here and that's certainly the problem. But what's essential, what's next? So, we have young people who have clearly shown and said, we don't want to have property owned, we want to be flexible, we want to be able to move, we want to live now, I don't know, in Osijek, and then we live behind it in Split, and then we want to live in Zagreb, so what we really need to think about, but it's not just a project of the state, it's a project together with cities, really strengthen the project of rent apartments because it's something that we can be friends with our fellow citizens, so, so, friends to young people, tell, eyes, you go to work in Zadar, we offer you an apartment, you have a settled housing issue, behind what you did in Zadar, decide to work in Osijek,... No way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's the problem and what's going to open up the problem is certainly next. We now show the need for additional labour. That's where the workforce comes in. What's connected to construction, you must be following a good area, so you know that the workforce that comes to our construction comes from Albania. I've had a chance to see a lot of Indians and they're basically coming here, they're coming to make money and they're coming home. At one point, for the purposes of some other activities this time the greatest needs will show tourism, according to construction. Tourism because we are a country dependent on tourism and 20% of our GDP are based on tourism. Construction so that we can even withdraw everything that we have applied to EU funds, it's about projects that someone has to do because if they don't, it won't help, and we'll be able to get those funds back, but it'll expect that in the future some of them will say ok, let's go live here, there's a sure theme that in the future the need for doctors that we all show, the need for teachers, teachers, and for teachers, and it'll be necessary to solve the housing issue, it's one of the burning topics, and it's also one of the demographic measures to really secure apartments not in a way that someone has to buy them, but the apartments for which someone will be rented for the simple reason that they will live and then go on. I repeat, it cannot be a project of the state alone, it must be a project of cities because there will be cities that offer it will certainly get more quality, faster, suitable, educated people who will then be able to of course not only work there but also provide other elements from their progress and progress and that part of the country, or these individual cities. What is important is really important to ask the question of what and how and how? We had opportunities to see about refugees, with migrants to provide individual apartments for their care, from where, where, how? We don't have them now, who's going to make them in the future? Likewise, since the documentation shows that everything in 4 cities is done by POS and we haven't seen it being done elsewhere, does this mean that this government has decided to put the POS a little bit on the sidelines and decided to subsidize because first it's more pro-pulsive, people before seeing, before the device, it would be convenient in the final word to see and to get an answer to everything, but somehow try to listen to what we are and what we in the name of clubs and in individual words. I would have concluded it in two findings, so we can talk about the percentage of the subsidy and the rest, but one finding is that we try not to have a competition just in the 9th month. Instead of trying to have either quarterly or twice a year, you're going to make life easier for yourself, you're going to make life easier in APN that there aren't then those wheelchairs and all those requirements that you have to solve, you know how much money there is, we already know that it's going to be at the level of a year between 2500 and 3000, maybe four quarters, or maybe three times that would make the story easier, that's the first thing, but the second thing you really need to sit down, you need to talk, and you need to see about really renting apartments, with the possibility, we need to simply send a message, we need to be flexible, we need to let people in search for work really work for 4 or 5 years here, 5 years there. Equally, you, when from all this data, we can read the next finding. Most citizens are interested in two locations. One location is the town of Zagreb, another location is the whole move by the sea. This is the biggest interest, regardless of whether it is POS or whether it is also about the subsidies granted for loans, which points to several facts. The first fact is that the city of Zagreb is always interesting and you always solve a particular problem there, but the second fact, I will not say that all those who are interested in the coast are thinking about having an apartment that will then be able to rent and use for tourism over the summer, I read it more in a way that they rent so much or families don't have young people where to live, so the need to solve the housing issue, I would like to conclude this debate to be ultimately changing the law in that sense but also think as much further, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145412	Thank you. You'll be rephraseed by the missus. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145413	Dear colleagues, you have mentioned the problem of renting apartments and I really think that it is long-term we should think about it because if we want mobile labour, if we want everyone not necessarily to stay where they were born, but that they are eventually fluctuating and that they are going somewhere to work for 5 or 10 years, or whatever it is that we really want to allow you and such people, young or not so young, to go, that they can rent an apartment under regular conditions and that it gives them one security, and that's what we really all need quality in that sense to think that we would actually improve the fluctuation within the country itself and then maybe it won't happen that they're going to go out so much but then they'll see new chances within the country itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145414	Answer, ma'am. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145415	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Peric, that's right. So what you have to offer young people, you have to offer them a job and you have to offer them to take care of their jobs. And it won't offend some colleagues, I see there are some colleagues who are younger but we are, or I'll say for myself, I'm kind of a age where I learned what I finished, I'll do it, then I'll do it further. Today, young people finish one college, not at all doing the work they've done, but doing a whole other job. They don't have a problem with doing one job for 5 years, so 5 years, so let's give them a chance to do it, they're ready to go, I don't know, from Zagreb to Sibenik, not to mention your Zadar, they're ready to go to Sibenik, there they are offered, but if they know they won't have 3 months. You have where to live, where it's summer season, that they don't have safe conditions, they won't go, therefore, it's one of the elements where we can be attractive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145416	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Boric has a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145417	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Vice President with his associates. Well, here's something I want to say about these two laws, about socially stimulating housing and about subsidising housing loans, and I think that two laws in the final form of reaction to what the Deputy Prime Minister is, but the whole government has noticed that there's either a shortage in so far, that something needs to be fixed, but there's also something a little more encouraging in the circle of all measures that are trying to come under demographics that we can say that we really want to deal with all segments of this problem in the way that is appropriate. That's why today I was surprised by some statements here especially from the SDP that say this House Loan Subsidisation Act, not that they didn't want to implement, but that they lifted it as soon as they arrived. So they didn't care about anything at all about demographics, and they simply didn't want to deal with the problem in one good way, and as they were experiencing the problem of demographics at all, we heard from some former assistants, they cut their salaries to anyone who could have eliminated certain social benefits, etc. And at the same time, they're still in charge of one 80 billion in response to their own failures. What bothers them in this law was I haven't been able to know why there is one, not two, why there are three, not seven, etc., in the main case you don't have a solution and you don't know any other or better than those you want to compete with. I think that these laws are very clear each in its own pronunciation, and if it was noticed that someone I don't know, rents an apartment that got like POS's apartment in some municipality that's in Krk, so it's okay for the government to react and not somehow limit it to a certain period, it's been put here for 10 years, and then you can manage it, but you have to pay something, etc., to come up with a real purpose for those who can't sort out their own housing issue, and they can, with the help of the state and with the help of the subsidies given to them by the state. What else did we notice? We have noticed that such dissatisfaction wants to be extended or transferred to others because this measure is unsuccessful for them. If she was taken care of in so many years, 8,000 housing families who had no option, why would they call that measure bad, no such thing or one that did not contribute, and she contributed, she must have contributed. 8,000 families aren't small. And then we have to listen to how it's wrong, how it's supposed to be, how we should have done it, how we could have done it, how they didn't do anything. That's what we've been hearing about, I don't know, the downers, the immigrants, all sorts of areas, they haven't done anything, but they've got a 100 comment on what someone else knows better than they do. So the very clear rules, we know the point of how many years you can buy, and then we heard why indexation, why I don't know, subsidize in 8 groups I don't know 30%, and in 1 group 51% of the monthly annuity. Well, we've also seen from this data that's expired or from the last debate where we've asked for such data to come in, to know exactly what's going on and to see that there's an interest in it. There is an interest in the next 3,000 families, surely in the following years, who want to solve their housing issue in this way, and what we are doing here, especially from the opposition, we are predicting that they will be unsuccessful, that they will not have a job, that they will not be able to do this, that they will not be able to do it all. As people don't know, the SDP tells them that they're going to live for the next 15 years, I think. Well, everyone cares their way, looking for the best way to work. And if the state can help on a EUR 100,000 loan I don't know some EUR 18, 20,000 we get let's say practical benefits, so of course the young family will take it. So it's a single apartment equipment, a very suitable equipment that you can equip it in all segments and you solved one of your own problems and then you deal with it your whole life that way, especially in urban areas. In our smaller places it's a little different, there aren't many or too many municipalities that are in POS because they have a different problem. I've done a survey of your place. You don't have enough interests. We have real if we could, this one rents them practically because we are a tourist destination, but just now there are problems when in between, there is no room within the family for maybe 3 children to be taken care of, but now there is a problem where if there is not enough construction area and there is no possibility of building new houses, so that what is possible will take care of POS. And it may be in the coming years especially on islands and shores more and more, and it is good that you have limited through this other law that there is no abuse, it is really ok, because it can be earned, today on the apartment you can earn, and such an apartment can certainly bring certain benefits. Is it a demographic measure if you offer someone else, you have another child, we extend it to you for another year means this subsidy, so it's again a particular aid to one family? Well, of course that's good, I don't know why the SDP is against it, why they even want to be against those things that contribute to these young families, and they're like the great protectors of these young workers I don't know who they all don't, and whatever they need for their benefit, nothing. We cut VAT from 25 to 13 for fresh meat, I don't know fish, they don't, you can't understand that policy any better. You just can't work like that. And that's why it's time for a little bit of this different discussion in this assembly to really show you what's wrong with this law, and we didn't all cut the wages of this, the law almost forgot, started something there a little bit about POS and did nothing and then nothing wrong with you. This is both good and good, and this is for the benefit of young people in Croatia who need to be taken care of for the first time in a housing manner and have the opportunity to do so with the help of state subsidies. It's not like it used to be in that former state when we could get an apartment, but those times are over for all the time I think, no. So from you, you might probably support it, but it's just not possible anymore. So I don't know what to do anymore, in laws like this that are really okay, even some of these aren't in a lot of articles or changed, but they went for what was good to build on to be even better and to be more useful and to be more useful and that with the means with which the state has been able to meet all the obligations it has made on itself, and that these young people stay living in the Republic because that is one of the reasons why it will stay. He'll stay here. Let's look at some stories of people going outside, which is their biggest problem, the living space they're going to live in, how much it costs, and how with such a living space or with those prices they even come back to with some money that could mean you've made something out. And that is why it is strange indeed by the opposition, especially by the SDP, that these measures are against this subsidy law, so housing loans and against POS because they simply showed in the 10 years of application that these measures have been affected. Why aren't they expressed to the end in rural areas? Well, for the first time, maybe it's going through these subsidized housing loans into rural space, so far, it's almost impossible. We can see it's not much of a response, but it's trying. The house with a useful permit or building of the house is possible for 100,000,00 EUR, so on the islands it's a little hard to make a house for 100,000,00 EUR that would be in a function that you can sort of return loans and work with it because it's accumulated construction and it's a fact and it's good that they cut down these interests when we see everything going down, that it's okay to reduce and here, means the government reacts, doesn't look and doesn't wonder what's going on, but how the opposition reacts, they're always against, of course, what they're going to be but against and I don't see any reason why they'd be against this kind of law that's good in all segments and brings benefi to someone from 20.00 EUR to 100,000,00,00, and that's really a man wonders why they wouldn't support it. What, then, can we possibly support if we can't support young people who need housing and still get some help from the state? Some officials in APN also asked for their help for their housing, so we know how it ended. They were and they were very rare, but they did it while they could, not and now they're against those who can, of course they're not politicians, they're not officials, they're ordinary people. I think it's just that this is good and one law and another law and it should be supported I think unanimously not against because this really contributes to meaning in the future even better and more precisely can realise a number of requirements that will appear, and we see that there are and will appear in every coming year, of course the state to take care that it can really finance from its incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145418	Thank you. The first line has a Mrs. Crescent. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Comrade Boric, while I was listening to you, I kind of got the impression that we were living in parallel universes. So, you're saying that we've abolished something, some kind of subsidisation, the only one that's put an end to something that you've abolished, and you've abolished tax relief, paying taxes when you buy the first real estate, we haven't abolished anything, we've launched an incentive housing program, then the Government in 2000 to 2003, and we've introduced a tax exemption measure when buying the first real estate, so I don't really know what you're talking about. Demographic policy, when you mention it, that we didn't have any demographic policy, so your demographic policy was all said by the secretary of state who publicly resigned on the press and said that it was all a farce and a play for the public, he did so publicly, so we don't have to talk about it, said the man from your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145420	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145421	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, you are 2012. I don't know how you're experiencing it, whether it's 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 4th. Nothing happened, and now you say you didn't do something, so you did, you said here yourself that you cut down on teachers, pay teachers, every day they were at your door there, and you said it was super educational reform and that you were doing it well, etc. And what's been bothering me with the whole mandate is where you spent 80 billion kuna for which you increased our public debt, which the projects you solved, which you handled through the budget when it was sort of the last year of 2015. in a minus and simply looking at this today you are also against this to help young families, I can't understand it because simply if someone at EUR 100,000,00 can, I don't know in the city of Dubrovnik or I don't know in Metkovic or anywhere in any other city gets a certain benefit through subsidies, it should be supported, and not against.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145422	The second line has Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Borić, you have just mentioned the city of Dubrovnik, so the model established by the Law on Social Encouragement is an inspiration to numerous units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia to introduce certain models, so the city of Dubrovnik which you have now mentioned introduced its specific model to enable young families to rent monthly apartments owned by the city of Dubrovnik, which the city of Dubrovnik is building at 1.500,00 kn rent of that apartment on the 10th year after the 10th year. what they use as a rental, they can buy it for the right first time, with everything they've been paid for in those 10 years. returns to this price of the apartment. So that's one of the measures that just came out in response to this kind of law that's changed in these last 18 years. and on which the city of Dubrovnik practically found inspiration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145424	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145425	My colleague Bačić, I know that you were one of the authors of the same Act on subsidisation of residential loans, and in the first year he was successful, and that is why I am surprised by the opposition that they claim that they did not stop it, and they did not want to help in this way because they have established POS better story than subsidising housing credits because it shows time and total number, means realized credits that it is not exactly so and that people want it, if people want it and young people want it, it is good that local self-government, here in this case the city of Dubrovnik can be upgraded to do so with its own measures, as it has been upgraded to total demographic policy, they did not have such a ministry with their own measures and therefore there is aid going from local to state level and in the social sector of 2013, and 2015 it was not spoken to them at all because they did not even exist as a question, they did not have such a lot of money for their families, but they could be asked for their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145426	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, a fellow predecessor said in his debate that he would like to hear some arguments as to why this law is not good. None of the previous speakers decededly claimed that this law was wrong. People are here, and here is a colleague of Lalovac's, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, who really pointed out the positive points of this law and some colleagues from various political spectrumes, from the Croatian Parliament pointed only to some illogicalities in the law itself. And that's not the first time. We talked about these illogicalities in the first reading. Well, here's my colleague Bacic himself also said that he would personally like the government to guarantee the sustainability of this measure. What does that mean? It means that we still haven't received a guarantee from the government that this measure of subsidising housing loans to young couples when buying the first property will be implemented in the long term, meaning 2022, 2023, 2024. But the same government has long-term abolished the right to exempt from paying taxes when buying the first real estate. Well, that's not right now. If the subsidisation of credit when buying the first real estate here in the Croatian Parliament when adopting a package of tax reform laws was presented as a compensatory measure for the permanent elimination of tax relief, i.e. the tax exemption in the purchase of the first real estate, then it is not normal and logical that this compensation is limited in time and that we say as Government, look at us doing this this year, next year, next year, but we have no guarantee whether this measure will stop after the election, how the projections in the budget will actually move. So it would be nice if, at least, if you hadn't already listened to some proposals and reasoned criticism, i.e. observations on the very draft of the law by the opposition deputies, it would be good to consider, however, as the Government did say, what representatives of the strongest HDZ party were saying that it would still be good if we could guarantee to the young families that this measure, since I say, has been abolished again, would be a suspended tax exemption of a lasting character. What is good in this law is certainly the order that is trying to introduce itself into this model of encouraging housing, so that people who really have to solve the life problem of buying the first real estate and they don't want to, I won't say fictitiously but play the law in a way that they buy that first property because they don't have any on themselves and actually have a real estate in which they live and then rent it and thus make financial benefit. I mean OK, people, unfortunately, in Croatia, are finding their way around to fix their home budgets, but let's not forget that in this way they have denied the right to someone else who really doesn't have a roof over his head, who's a tenant, who doesn't have any other real estate in which he lives. A good advantage of this law is also an additional extension of the credit subsidisation time by 2 years for each live birth, or adopted child, if that child is born or adopted during the loan subsidisation period. It's something that's good, it's something that's commendable. In addition, if the applicant is more than 50% of the physical damage to the credit subsidisation period is extended by 2 years, at the request or member of his family household. It also praises a valuable, commendable measure, and also enables the housing of protected tenants in a different way. We know that this is a major problem Croatia has been facing for years. We also know that we have a lot of them, that's all the good measures that this law has in itself, and no one has questioned that at any point. However, I cannot accept the answer, for example, it says here in the explanation of the proponents of the testimony on the parliamentary proposals. And now it is my responsibility, I have pointed out that additional subsidisation is for every minor child who will be entitled to meet applicants in this year and which will not be possible for users of the subsidised loans from 2017 and 2018 discrimination. And then he says, it's not accepted because it's not possible to retroactively apply the law. But retroactive application of the law would mean that by retroactive application of the law, someone else could benefit from the law and bring himself into a privileged position compared to others. However, we have lists that have been completed, we have people who have been given the right to subsidise housing loans in 2017 and 2018. And it's not fair and it's not fair that these people will be in a discriminatory position compared to people who will apply for housing loans this year. Why? In what way? For example, we have a family that has one child, the same two families, so one is applied in 2017, the other will apply after this law is passed. We have a family that has 1 child and in the five years that the state subsidizes the housing loan to him, for example, in 5 years, 2 children. The family that will apply, means there is 1 child at the time of application and at the time of conclusion of the contract and 2 children get after the contract has been concluded in the last 5 years. The family will receive an additional 5 years of loans from the state. So the state will not subsidize such a family for 5 but 10 years, which is great, but that family that is the same family that had 1 child at the moment and in these 5 years after the contract was concluded, will have two more children, the ones they have? They have four or five years of subsidisation, right? Because neither the child they had at the time of the contract, nor the children they were going to get during the subsidy, they don't actually have any extra, extra benphite, if I get it right. Is that equal rights for everyone or are they different rights because next year is an election year? If we're doing this because we're going to the polls, then you're not doing a good job. I think it's nice that you're going to help some part of Croatian citizens and that by actually encouraging demographic policy, if they get two more kids in those five years that you're actually going to double their thanks to the one kid they started out with, you're going to double their period, but as it's brutal to what you've done to people who have applied in a year that wasn't electoral, pre-election. It's an injustice that goes to heaven. And it's not politics now, I think you've proposed this law, we're reading it and we're just seeing and people are writing us, pointing to some illogicality. And for this it should not be too much of an expert, not even a construction expert, nor a housing expert to see that this is an injustice that divides Croatia on the families of the first and second order, pre-election and premature ones. That's not right. This is a good measure, but you will not damage anyone if you act in this law through the amendment of the Government in a way that you retroactively apply the same right to people who have applied in these two years. Why? Because the contracts are closed, there's no one who hasn't won now, we haven't been giving points for the kids, as I would say, wasn't the criterion of being a child, so now someone in that criterion to say "damaged," if we now applied it to someone, to move that ranking list. No, you wouldn't, you wouldn't move, it wasn't if I wasn't wrong, so the list's closed, but don't do that kind of thing. So, for the best of all, you share people, you divide them in one way that I think, two families look the same, there are examples like that, you can also share in a three-member family, four-member application, they're different now, I took this example. It's an injustice that you really do. And what I'm going to do very briefly, I think if demographic policy is a pillar of this government, and it is, you've opted for it, regardless of what State Secretary Strmota thought about which part of the team, I think we have these financial capacities and perspectives in the budget that we can return and exempt from paying taxes when buying first real estate and provide this co-financing measure or subsidisation of loans and think about the model of rental apartments for people who are not creditworthy and will unfortunately not be, and they also need to worry about a roof over their head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145428	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first line will be given by Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145429	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Glasovac, so you're absolutely right, and now that we look at how these last two years have been happening with, in the ministry, and what all the minister has proposed, I'm kind of totally asking what will be the next election year, and to what extent, in fact, what might be proposed next year will actually lead to even greater imbalances compared to the users of this year, or those who received these subsidized loans in 2017. Because this particular injustice, which seems to be the case for users, who have children and who had a child in 2017, has not been given any incentive for that child, for 2018 or beyond '19. will be won and now we see what injustice is, which perhaps we can expect in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145430	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145431	Comrade Alfirev, I don't really have a crystal ball so I can predict what's going to happen to these measures next year. But I really think that the injustice that is seen now needs to be corrected, if we're already rewarding, and even pre-election, although I don't think it's even, it's not even some sort of urgency of this law, even if we're rewarding it by enriching families with children, we're encouraging demographic, demographic policy, we can't afford to share people in this way I'm going to repeat it as many times as it should be. Not even in spite of it now, it's not even a matter of me being wrong about it depends on when a child was born, not even that it doesn't matter, it doesn't even matter. The guilt in parents depends on when they applied and what law was at that time in force. I think you can still fix that with an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145432	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145433	Comrade Voter, here's your example of a debate on how to find an argument, so that law is no good, because that's why you're voting against it. I think you'll do the wrong thing if you vote against Mrs. Alfirev because the law is good. And you're talking about those possibilities that can appear, you can't say that there are three, if you might have 1 plus 2 so it's going to be 3 and you're going to get a certain right. And you claim that it should now be returned for another 10 years because those who signed it in 2011 would also make it possible, if I understood that correctly. Why? Because when you take a loan in 2008 at the bank and you get 8% today 4 and we should all get the same profit for 4, right, and you don't. And when you were called differently as a party, you said they were all equal, and they weren't all equal. And among the equals were equal. So that story and breaking the law on this story is kind of mean to me. So the law is good and vote for it and those stories that will happen or what will happen when Don't tell me. [[- Intruder. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145434	Thank you very much. Mrs. Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145435	Comrade Boric, no one here has said that they will vote against the law, if you have listened to your colleague Lalovec, it would be clear to you that we will not vote against the law. But this story doesn't hold you water. You say okay. I'm telling you who's gonna get how many kids, so we don't have to diversify, let's go with two families who already have three kids, okay? The family that applied after this law will be further subsidized by the state for another 3 years, and the family that applied last year has zero, which is what it is, and I'm not going to tell you how many kids anybody's gonna get. Let's go with the starting points, it's wrong again, so the family that now has two or three children after this law the state will additionally co-finance on that for two or three years, the last one and the previous one have none of that, they have zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145436	Now it's Mr. Goran Aleksic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145437	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I was actually brought before the final act, I have to vote for the laws because there are no others, the laws are for the citizens and they have to be voted for. However, there are other measures that we should have implemented, and we don't implement them because we're not creative enough because we don't use our right to put banks in order. I will only start by saying what interest rates were established on average on 24 June, the CNB published average interest rates in the Republic of Croatia, so the average interest rates on housing loans in kunas are 4%, and on housing loans in EUR 3.97%, therefore, are almost identical interest rates in kunas and in EUR. Until a few years ago, the banks claimed it was impossible, the CNB claimed it was impossible, the CNB claimed it was impossible, these were lies, there was no difference 10 years ago. And now, the kuna is 10 years ago. And now it was an equally stable currency, there was no difference at all, so those were lies, that's one thing. The second thing, for consumer loans, other consumer loans, the average interest rates in kunas are 7.19%, these are still huge interest rates. For loans in EUR, consumer loans that are not residential average interest rates are 6.57%, these are huge interest rates. The interest rates in the Republic of Croatia are greater than 100% to 200% of the interest rates in Germany, France, Austria, Italy, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia and the CNB will say that and the banks will say that because the market in the Republic is that and that is because the credit risk of the Republic is greater than in those countries that I have mentioned now. However, the country's credit risk has nothing to do with consumer loans. Why doesn't it have anything to do with consumer loans? Because consumer credit banks only place on Croatian capital, Croatian citizens' capital. All loans, all consumer loans are covered by Croatian citizens' deposits, there is no credit risk because these are Croatian citizens' deposits, banks in the Republic of Croatia do not owe themselves outside to place consumer loans in the Republic of Croatia. So, they've had us for 20 years. They're lying about how it has to do with the country's credit risk. The only thing that has to do with loans in the Republic of Croatia is to examine the creditworthiness of each individual citizen, so the bank is obliged to examine the creditworthiness and determine whether the citizen is capable of a specific credit and its repayment. In line with what I said, banks should reduce interest rates by 50% in all loans by 50% and then come to the level of these loans that I was talking about in other countries. Now, the banks won't do it on their own, the Republic of Croatia should play an active role there. In what way? Before I say which way I have to say that the banks in the Republic of '90s, so they've never had a loss in here but two years, they lost in '98. and had a loss in 2016. Due to the conversion of CHF credits, all these other years of banks in the Republic of Croatia have had a profit and a fat profit. Last year, 5.64 billion kuna, this year in the first quarter of 1.62 billion kuna, which is a huge profit based among other things on high interest rates that have been over 10% throughout history, people have finally started to raise credit rates at interest rates of 10, 12, 14%, only in 2000, and especially since the conversion of CHF interest rate credits in the normal EU countries. Now that the government of the Republic of Croatia, what could the government of the Republic of Croatia do? Well, you should simply invite the banks to talk, you should tell the banks, it is undoubtedly stated that you have negotiated with consumers of the unfair interest rate, undoubtedly, there is a rightful verdict, it has been established that you have negotiated an unfair currency clause in CHF, so you have been unfairly doing business for 10 to 15 years, now it is time to reach the ashes and to start a reverse system and start acting fairly, as first to bring interest rates to the level of interest rates in Germany, France, Italy, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, first of all. Secondly, to give people back their stolen money, if you don't like it, then we'll settle it with the law, but we'd rather you offer it to people in a nice way, to invite them, to make a deal with them, and to pay them back their money. Now, the banks might say we don't have to and we won't. But then what can the government of the Republic of Croatia do? The government of the Republic of Croatia can say well, but if you don't, we'll introduce you with a tax on activity and by law we'll pay people back this money and you'll be about the same, but your business rating will still be bad because we had to apply to you the coercion of the rule of law. Then you'd better make it nice. I think if access to banks in such a way, if they were to talk to banks in such a way that certain agreements could be reached, and then such laws as the Housing Loan Subsidisation Act and the Incentive Apartment would not be so important, they would be much more achieved by these measures to bring banking business to the level of banking business in Western Europe. But not only in the west, I was also talking about countries in Eastern Europe that have interest rates equal to those of the Germans or the French. I said Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia. What's most important is nowhere west of the RH Bank has been misbehaving. What makes me sad is the fact that even though I may have said 300x here what it is that the bank's business is unfair, I believe that a large number of MPs still don't understand what I'm talking about, that he wasn't interested in it and that he didn't try to get into the depth of that problem. It's sad for me, and it's too bad it is. The next thing you know about this is the possibility of building apartments for rent. This building of rental apartments in the Republic of Croatia at the moment I don't think it could lead to any significant result. For what? Because we still don't have what economies have that are far ahead of us by development, which is employment mobility. In order for renting apartments to be a desirable category in the Republic of Croatia first, we need to achieve the need for people to travel to get a job. We still don't have that kind of job offer, and who knows when we're gonna have it. Therefore, the prerequisite for the demand for rental apartments is mobility in employment. As long as people are with us and these are limited to a particular area where they war, that there they live for 10, 20, 30 years, they'd always rather buy an apartment than hire it. Because the fact is, someone would pay a rent if they could for a loan that would pay for the same amount of money to buy their own apartment and for 20 years have it in their own possession. Therefore, these comparisons with Western Europe where there is renting apartments and objecting that we like to buy apartments do not stand because we have a simply different economic system. Okay, that's about it, I suggest that the government of the Republic of Croatia invite the banks, talk to them and come up with a solution that will be favourable to Croatian citizens, so it won't be necessary to put a hand in the budget and grab from the budget and give people money to make it easier to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145438	Thank you very much. The prime minister and deputy prime minister, Mr Predrag Štromar, will now speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the parliamentary representatives. I can see that one part of it doesn't even interest all the answers to the questions they've asked right now. We're listening to citizens, we're listening to MPs, and that's why I've stayed here for the entire debate, and we're sure we're going to implement further changes to the law and these ideas that have been heard today. This is very, very important to me, but so far it has been more than 15,000 young people who have resolved their housing issues by subsidized loans and POS, resolved their home. In 5300 families, more than 700 children were already born in these two years, as subsidized loans were repeated again, and the goal by the end of next year was more than 22,000 resolved housing issues, more than 22,000 homes through subsidized loans and POS. It was said about the development index, it proved to be good, more bought apartments, bought houses, built houses in rural areas where the development index was lower and the subsidies were higher. There were those who had done nothing so far, and now they've gone out, they haven't passed any laws, they haven't implemented any reforms unlike the CNS, they don't take their jobs seriously, so start doing it specifically, and then we'll discuss it, I think you know who that applies to. And as for resolving the housing issue, the state offers more models. Subsidized loans again in the fall of September. POS apartments together in cooperation with municipalities and cities, POS rent apartments, and POS plus loans that may not have yet been brought to life but have more and more interests. We didn't come here to have just one model. We're developing models. It was said for real estate prices, we did one analysis of the growth of real estate prices from 2012 to 2017. At the end of the conclusion and you have on the Internet, a correlation between the price of real estate is identical with the increase of overnight stays in certain municipalities and cities. Prices did not rise because of POS, they did not grow due to subsidised loans, but something grew, which is the number of building permits issued and the number and percentage of GDP, a growth of more than 11% of investment construction activities. I'm sure it will continue, the construction sector has realized that we are seriously thinking about demographic recovery with subsidized loans and with POS apartments. The lease was said, yes, we work intensively and on the lease, we have the possibility of a POS rental, but that's not enough and we work intensively to increase the number of housing units in the lease. Our young people don't want to fix themselves for one job, they want to go 20th, 50th, 60th km somewhere else or 100th place, and there they need to settle the housing issue with a rental. That's our extra assignment, and I'm sure we'll do it. As for the tenants, it was said here, we're doing an analysis, we're going to have real needs by the end of the week, we have a commitment, we can handle almost all needs through POS, and it's not about four POSs as far as it's been said, we're currently working on 17 projects. More than 1,000 apartments in the next year, a year and a half should be inhabitable, and of course, preparations are being made for next year. And as for the sentence that we've re-imposed the first real estate tax, we've actually reduced the tax from 5% to 3%, which is 40% actually a burden reduction when buying the first and every other real estate. This government will continue to work on both tax and tax discharges. We're going to work on our builders having less parafiscal purposes, having less problems, here a stamp, a counter, a stamp, a counter, a marker, and a scar, then a counter, and then finally another seal for all of it, so here in some chambers we're also going to charge some of our colleagues not to pay any taxes, but still, think about building safe. My colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies, here, I ask you to vote these two amendments at the first next vote, these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145440	The first replica was sought by Mr Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145441	Thank you, Vice President. In this final address, you mentioned all the measures, namely all the legal measures implemented by the CNS in this Government, to what the previous Governments had implemented. However, I think that in the future the most interesting, but perhaps no less demanding than the others, if not the most demanding, will be renting an apartment. In fact, it must co-operate with the labour market, it must co-operate with the needs of local self-government and, of course, it must be included from the banking sector, from the construction sector, so that would be when the measure is defined or corrected, it should be the crown of the housing policy that you are currently implementing in this Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145442	- Mrs. Crescent. Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145443	Thank you. Dear Minister, in the debate, it was noted that the subsidisation of housing loans is generally the fastest finger. As far as I know, that's not true, if it's true you're denying me. I have information for 2018 and 2017, all those who met the conditions, that their loans were, or subsidisation was granted, so I don't know how my colleague Djujic got that information, maybe I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145444	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145445	Thank you very much, ma'am. Parliamentarian Topolko. You are absolutely right in 2017 and 2018, and so it will be in 2019, anyone who submits a complete request with all the paperwork that is not complicated, so the apartment must have a useful, house, construction, and for building the house must be issued a new building permit, everyone will get a loan subsidy. It's a guarantee. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145446	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate on points No. 633 and No. We'll vote 634 when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145447	Final draft law amending and supplementing the House Loan Subsidisation Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 633, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed and I am voting on that final draft of the law. I find that most of the votes 85 for and 1 abstentions have been passed the Amendments and Supplements Act on subsidisation of housing loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145585	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposed law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 401; Proposer of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Article 401; 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by two committees, for legislation and for the judiciary, and the government delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Would you like a representative of the motionor, Mr. Podolnjak, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145586	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Now, at the debate on the proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, which was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists last July, about the time this HS decided on the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the State Judicial Council when the majority voted in the Government's proposal, then it was not debated on this proposal, so we thank you for including this item on the agenda for the debate, even if even a year later. Of course, in a different context, we are discussing this matter in time because, in the meantime, this law has been changed and changed after we have referred our proposal to the parliamentary procedure, but it is an opportunity to talk about an extremely important topic in this place. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, DSV is an independent and independent body that ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. To remind the public of the DSV, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, decides independently on the appointment, promotion, transfer, resolution and tight responsibility of judges and court presidents, except for the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It participates in training and training judges and other judicial staff. As you can see from this constitutional jurisdiction, DSV is an extremely important body. According to the Constitution, there are 11 members, made up of 7 judges, 2 university professors of legal science and 2 parliamentary deputies, one of whom is from the opposition. Although this is of course not the domain of legislative regulation and this bill of law that we propose or any other DSV law, we must say here the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists as we believe that the Constitution should be amended in that part and that the amendment of the Constitution should leave out 2 parliamentary representatives as members of the DSV. The intensity of these constitutional changes would, of course, be to depolitise DSV entirely and as we have stated ourselves according to constitutional powers, it decides on the important things that apply to all judges in the Republic and therefore to politicians there should be no place in that body. Well, in the end line and two MPs who are now members of the DSV are largely smaller in those 11 members, and we don't really see any important reason why these two members should be members of the DSV. In the worst situation, the tab may be in excess of voting on individual issues in the power of the DSV, and this would still not be good for public perception of the independence of that body. The current DSV Act was adopted in 2010 and subsequently amended several times, and last time as I said in July 2018, it entered into force on 1 August of last year. The government rejected this bill with a general argument that it considers it unfounded to refer it to the procedure, a legal proposal that almost in the same way regulates the same matter as the law that HS adopted in July 2018. on a proposal from the Government. However, it is important to point out that this proposal is not identical to the government's proposal, which the parliamentary majority has accepted and that there are significant differences and therefore, in this debate, we will highlight exactly the key differences between what we propose and what is not in the current DSV Act and that these very differences will actually highlight our approach to the DSV regulation. The main objectives of the proposed law are to increase efficiency and transparency in the work of DSV, to strengthen transparency and objectivity in the appointment of judges and presidents of courts, and to establish new systems for assessing the work of judges, strengthening objectivity and expertise in the system. In accordance with the main objectives of this bill, the following are set out as the most important proposals, firstly of course we have changed our law, changed the composition of DSV in the section relating to 7 judges who are members of that body. This proposal is directly related to our second legislative proposal of the Law on Courts, which has also been at a debate in HS that has not been accepted, but this legislative proposal has come from a different structure, first-degree and second-degree courts in the Republic of Croatia and has therefore proposed a different composition of the seven judges who make up members of that body, but now I will not speak more in detail about this part because in the meantime our proposal for the Law on Courts and in that part of course this legislative proposal is rejected and cannot be relevant. What is particularly important to point out is that the following proposals are, we propose a professionalisation of the Presidents of the Council and of the Vice-Presidents in a way that the same judicial duty rests during the term of the Council's term of office. Such a provision does not exist in the current law and the government has not been defined in its proposal for the professionalisation of the president of the DSV, but such have been advice from European institutions. It should also be stated that according to our proposal, DSV would have more power and much more work in its work and that, for example, judges who are now subject to evaluation every 3rd year in the system, which is not the case now, which would mean that DSV would have far more work in that section. We have suggested that the president of the DSV be elected from the ranks of judges. The government has objected to the constitutional provision of the Article. 124. The constitution of council members elects a president among themselves, so in this sense they believe that our provision in the law is an unconstitutional restriction on the election of other DSV members who are not judges. However, our position is that the provision we propose is not against the Constitution, to limit the choice of presidents between judges, they are, and now they are, most of them, the absolute intensity and intention of the constitution that judges have absolute, even more than that, the majority in the DSV. The question is raised as a counterargument to the Government whether it would be good if, for example, one of the MPs, for example, the MP of the parliamentary majority were the president of the DSV and what kind of message would be about the independence and depolitisation of that body if, for example, such a situation could happen, and therefore we suggested that the president of the DSV could be only a person who comes from the ranks of judges, although, by the logic of the things of those 7, they could always vote the person who is the judge in relation to the remaining 4 members, so 2 university professors and 2 MPs. We also proposed to speed up the process of appointing judges by abolishing the candidate committees as well as to strengthen objectivity and transparency during the procedure itself. We also foresee the strengthening of the transparency and trust of citizens and with the provision in which we introduce an obligation to audio video recording and transfer conversations with candidates for judges and presidents of the courts, so we believe that the transfer of DSV members' talks with judges and judges' presidents would make a good contribution to the transparency of DSV's work. The government is in this section against our proposal and I believe that the decision to record the sessions should be left to the decision at each individual session. But for the sake of the public, we must say that recording the talks would, in our conviction, greatly strengthen this very procedure of transparency in selecting judges and presidents. What we propose in our proposal is the introduction of a regular, standardised and objective system of evaluation of judges' work in such a way that the law prescribes the obligation to evaluate judges every 3rd g. The European standards in the direction of continuous evaluation exist, but according to the current law, the evaluation is only present with judges who apply for tenders for a higher court. So it's possible that you actually have judges in the system that are not progressing, and that will never be evaluated in their work. And for this reason, our proposal that there is a continuous evaluation of judges we propose a graduation of certain assessments, excellent conduct of judicial duty, successful conduct of judicial duty, satisfactory conduct of judicial duty and ultimately unsatisfactory conduct of judicial duty. The development of the evaluation criteria would bring the DSV with a preliminary view of the extended general session of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice. In that part, the government expressed the opposite opinion and is not about including the minister of justice because of the independence of the judicial authority, but in our view it is not about the impact on the appointment and sanctioning of individual judges but on the assessment criteria. As a result of the lowest assessment, therefore, of a dissatisfaction with the judicial duty, the president of the court will initiate a strict case against the judge. If the judge is assessed by the lowest passing assessment, he is acting satisfactorily, the judge will be reassessed after a year so-called. Correction assessment. If the judge fails to achieve a higher assessment after the re-evaluation, the President of the Court, in cooperation with the judge, will draw up an additional training plan carried out by the Judicial Academy. The government has expressed a negative view on these provisions on the continued evaluation of judges and all judges acting at least 3 g. considering that this would lead to a stifle of the work of the DSV, its administrative burden as it has only 11 members, and would delay the decision to advance to the High Court. Therefore, the view of the Government is that such a provision on continuous evaluation would not in itself be bad in terms of the need for judges to be evaluated, but considers that it would lead to a stifling of the work of the DSV. One of the reasons why we have proposed professionalising the work of the president and vice president is precisely because in all the provisions we have provided that DSV really has much greater powers as a body, one of these powers is, of course, continuous evaluation of judges. But, in fact, it is in the function of wanting a more quality judiciary given the countless times that we have a reassessed finding on the negative perception of the work of judges, not only in the Croatian public, it is present today in a series of reports by the European institutions, the EU Commission, the EU barometer research and one of the key objectives of the bill's proposal, which is exactly what we can do more, normably, to edit this part that will allow for more quality of the work of judges, therefore, through their continuous monitoring of results and evaluation through the objective of their work through certain criteria that will be prescribed, through a more transparent process of progress, and that is, in fact, the content of this bill's proposal. What is also important is to introduce an objective evaluation of the candidates' work plans for the presidents of the courts. It is also prescribed that the council will not call for a discussion of candidates who get negative opinions from the presidents of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the minister of justice cumulatively, therefore, from both instances. This provision, in our opinion, ensures the quality and balance of decisions on the person who manages, not only the judicial aspect of the court, but also the financial-material or organisational. I cite what the government has failed to accept in its own obvious. We also prescribe that the judge cannot be the person for whom security obstacles exist. The Council shall refer the request to the SOA to carry out a thorough security check of level 3 of all judges in the Republic of Croatia. Also, this law prescribes that security checks are carried out against all candidates for judges of previous appointments. But for all the judges after the law's in effect. We also propose the appointment of judges in order on established lists of the championship without exception. We suggest that a structured conversation with candidates can bring up to 10% of the total number of points. In its negative statement, the government believes that this could be contrary to the constitutional definition of DSV as an independent and independent body, but it is precisely in our first plan to objectively objectify decisions on the choice of judges. Namely, this conversation plays as little as possible in the total number of points compared to the objective criteria and points each candidate will play on the basis of his previous work. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 92, a kind of veto was proposed by the Minister of Justice when he gave a negative opinion on the proposals of the President of the Court's The government considers it inadmissible by incurring the executive authority in the appointment of the president of the courts. We hold that a certain role should be laid down by the Minister of Justice, not as a breach of the independence of the judiciary, but as an additional measure of quality assurance and good decisions. These are, therefore, the key differences between our proposal and the current legal arrangement, and on the basis of last July's legislative change. In this sense, we believe that this bill, which may not have the support now, not only of the government but also of the parliamentary majority, will in any case, at any next time, when discussed, have the support of the majority in this HS because it offers a number of quality proposals, which in general want to strengthen the transparency and quality of the work of all judges in the Republic of Croatia, and this is precisely the key role of the DSV. In view of this, unfortunately, negative perception of work and independence of the judicial branch, it is terribly important that through the regulation of DSV which has important powers in decisions on the choice of judges, on the strict responsibility, it is precisely important that this body, much more than it has so far, is working to ensure quality work in the judiciary, and this is possible to monitor through regular evaluation of the work of judges, which, unfortunately, now does not exist both by objectively and more transparently the choice of judges than it has been before. Many examples of which, unfortunately, we have often had opportunities to hear and decisions that are... The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia points out that there is a need for a more quality regulation of this particular area of DSV's work when deciding on these issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145587	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145588	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Our colleague in Croatia is one of the biggest problems and perceptions, which means the judiciary and, above all, the judiciary, and apparently the State Judiciary Council, is such a composition that the two parliamentary representatives are in this body. We've had a case where the attorney from most of the attorneys from the opposition and he's also in the Council of Judges. That could easily be passed on to the cadiya suing you, cadiya judging you. And because of this mistrust comes from the judiciary or the judiciary, what we have today in society and economic and economic and demographic downturn on all issues. It's only crucial for the judiciary, but when we see only the composition of the DSV, I don't see any reason why the government wouldn't accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145589	The answer, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145590	Thank you. And I think it is necessary to constantly point out that it is simply inappropriate for legislators to be in the DSV as part of the legislative authority. And I don't really know what the idea was when the constitutionalists, so in this House too, decided that out of 11 members there had to be two MPs, one from the parliamentary majority and one from the opposition. It is simply that the body must be depolitised and any possible situation for MPs to decide or be a key step in deciding whether judges are elected or in any other situation is absolutely unacceptable because the Constitution is based on the fact that it is an independent and independent body, therefore it would have to be independent of any role of the legislative body nor that there are no two MPs in its composition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145591	Thank you. I don't see anyone on the board who can take a word for it. I'm opening up. He didn't ask for a word from the government either. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Robert Podolnjak, who will speak on behalf of the club, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145592	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the name of the promoter, we have brought forth, of course, the key legal provisions that we propose in the DSV Act. It is a very important independent institution and body, and that is why it is very important for us to regulate the work, composition, way of deciding that body. First of all, to repeat, it is fundamentally necessary to depolitize this body, we cannot do so only through this law, for this to require constitutional change. The second thing that is very important is that the body must be at least in a certain part professionalised. Given the scope of the tasks that that body has, it is, of course, impossible for it to carry out all its tasks if everyone in that body is working as volunteers. As for example, it is not good to continue to have a DIP in which we are headed by the President of the Supreme Court. So all these years we haven't been able to change the Law on the State Election Commission and make that body fully professional given the tasks it has. When we worked on this bill, we were told that European institutions suggested professionalising the work of the president of the DSV. So if you have one, constitutional, constitutional body with tasks that are defined, then by the logic of things, you expect at least the president of that body to be a professional. I don't know any other body so important in which you would actually have a volunteer except that I mentioned the President of the DIP, where the President of the Supreme Court is acting. And that's something we should change anyway. What is important to us in the role of DSV is the fact that it actually decides on the choice of judges, on their strict responsibility, and that all decisions it makes must be transparent, must be objective, based on objective criteria for the evaluation of individual candidates, very often there were examples of DSV decisions that were not such. We know that some of these decisions were the subject and decision of the Constitutional Court. And just on top of that, we suggested a far more transparent process. Why would we be against having sessions and conversations with the candidates for judges or the presidents of the courts? In what way would it be to infiltrate a person's privacy? So it's about a competition for a certain public function. So I don't see why we should talk about privacy when a person is competing for the duties of a judge or president of a court and when the subject of the discussion is therefore objective criteria and the work of a person in the previous career, for example as a judge or as a candidate in a professional way, in the light of why it would be an intrusion into the privacy of a person while, of course, excluding certain issues of a personal nature which could be considered to be intruding into privacy, however, such issues and should not be subject to a session of the State Judiciary Council. Leave the possibility of filming to the president of the DSV at the session itself whether he will decide yes or no. For me, it's not really a decision on what the government is proposing, because if it's general in the government's opinion that it's incurring the privacy of the candidates, if that's the general position, then there's no need for provisions on whether the sessions can be recorded at all, but in our opinion, it would greatly contribute to the transparency of DSV's work. What is also important to point out, it is important for us to assess the work of judges. In fact, it is a very absurd fact that they have pointed out to us from the Ministry of Justice that judges who are not making progress, who during their careers remain in that judicial place, may well have started to work, in fact they will never be evaluated, and they will never actually be assessed, and they can actually ask what motivation they can have in their work because, according to our proposals, which are related to the other law that we have proposed, the Law on Courts, we have proposed a better award for judges and those who are not progressing and are not elected to more courts, but they must be better rewarded in their work. So it is impossible that all judges will advance to second degree or some more courts, but it is certainly necessary to be well rewarded for their work. So those who may stay in the municipal court for life or who may stay in the county court for life after being appointed from the municipal court to a county court or be in some commercial court, regardless of the fact, if they were to be evaluated by those highest marks on our proposal, they should also be financially rewarded, therefore by the increase in wages. Therefore, this assessment is not only in the function of possible sanctioning or seeking bad grades but it is also an evaluation in the function of rewarding a large number of judges who certainly work very well. So we wouldn't want the evaluation message to be misunderstood, that we want to look for negative examples of poor work, negative grades, and those judges to go to juvie exams at the Judiciary Academy and so on. The intention is, in fact, that there is a motive for judges to work even better, but to reflect and reward their work because if I am not mistaken right now, you have about, I think maybe the Secretary of State will know a more precise number, over 1700 judges in the Republic of Croatia and many among them will not advance into more courts or be presidents of courts or perhaps wait for years to happen but it is absolutely important for us to financially stimulate them, better reward them for a large number of judges that we believe work very well. In addition, the reports we receive about the state of the judicial authority from the President of the Supreme Court also point to a number of good things that are happening in the system, that many judges have more than those required norms, to reduce the number of pending cases and delays, and all this is good but ultimately we want to objectify them in a way that with those high assessments of the work of judges, so that it is accompanied by their better reward for their work. This is the essence of the proposal, strengthening responsibility, transparency of the process, better quality of DVS's work, and we believe that by implementing these proposals as a whole, we will get one more quality situation in our judiciary, not one of the measures that we have proposed, but let me remind myself that it is originally on these proposals of the law, not only of this DSV Act but also of the Law on Courts, for example those other laws relating to the State's Attorney's Office, that people who were proposed by the Ministry of Justice, when MOST was part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact during the two Governments, so on these draft laws, were worked in the Ministry of Justice and the people who worked there on these proposals based on all the discussions and on the suggestions that came from other European institutions were made these draft laws. Only later did the government and the ministry in the new composition define another approach and part of these proposals that were to be proposed to the Croatian Parliament were not proposed as part of the reform proposed last year and adopted by the Croatian Parliament. But the public must know that the proposals we have been proposing were actually discussed in the Ministry of Justice for a few years and that, in any case, MOST was in the government and later that it remained part of the Government I am convinced that a different proposal and the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council would have been before the Croatian Parliament and what we are talking about today would not be the proposal of an opposition club in the Croatian Parliament but would be a proposal from the Government and I believe that many of these proposals that I have been talking about would already be part of the normative arrangement of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145593	Now it's Mr. Marko Simic's turn in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145594	I thank the Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable State Secretary, I most warmly welcome you all, today I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the Proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council, which is based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Assembly Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists submitted in July so in 2018. It is important to note at the beginning of this debate that in 2018 we adopted a whole package of laws called the Justice Reform in the public, and this package of laws also amended the Law on the State Judicial Council and we will see the effects, first effects, so the amendments and additions of the Law on the State Judicial Council as well as other laws governing the area of the judicial authority and the organisation of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia will be seen from the report of the President of the Supreme Court when it comes to parliamentary benches. It has been sent to the procedure, therefore made and therefore, at first sight, the effects of the reform and of all the general objectives that we define in any such law or supplement, amendments to the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is an independent and independent body which ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. The foundations of independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, and hence the special appointment of judges, have been set in accordance with the highest standards of regulated legal order of the EU. The State Judicial Council shall, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, decide independently on the appointment, promotion, relocation, resolution and responsibilities of the Judges and Presidents of the Court, and shall take those decisions in an impartial manner on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law. The State Judiciary Council has 11 members, consisting of 7 judges, 2 university professors of legal sciences and 2 parliamentary representatives of which is one of the lines of opposition. It is important here to note that all members of the State Judicial Council must have the same qualifications in terms of integrity, independence, impartiality and skills as judges and no member of the Government can be a member of the State Judiciary Council at the same time. In the presentation and discussion of the esteemed colleague of the Dolnjak, we have actually seen that they, as a Club of Representatives of the Most, are asked by their proposal to, that MPs be no part of the State Judiciary Council, not to be members and see some kind of problem and dispute. As a member of the HDZ and representative of the HDZ Club, I really do not see any obstacle or obstacle, so that MPs in the Croatian Parliament are also members of the State Judiciary Council and it is not about any politicisation in my position and belief for the reason that we are representatives of the Croatian people, the people chose us and we are the only legitimate representatives of the Croatian people. It is important to note, therefore, that in determining qualifications, the law determines that all members of the State Judicial Council must have the same skills as judges in terms of integrity, independence, impartiality. And I really don't see any struggle in this. The relevant Law on the State Judicial Council was adopted in 2010, after which it was amended 5 times, were amended in 2011, 2013 and 2015. As I have already stated, this law has been passed through the changes, and the key differences are actually in the provisions that ensure the effectiveness and transparency of the Croatian judiciary, and this will be visible after we have a debate in the Croatian Parliament regarding the report of the Supreme Court president. A number of analyses and statistics, including the practice itself, have shown that changes are needed and we have actually set out to amend all these laws that regulate therefore the area of trials in the Republic of Croatia. The main objectives of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the State Judicial Council were to increase efficiency and transparency in the work of the council, to strengthen transparency and objectivity, to appoint judges and presidents, to establish new systems, to assess judges' work, and to strengthen the objectivity and expertise in the system. Looking through the prism of the main objectives of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council and this proposal of the law as directed by the Club of Representatives of the Most, we can see that these objectives are, in fact, the same and therefore we believe that the policy of the Government of a State and the regulation of a judicial system, and I therefore believe that this and this law is not necessary at this time. With the new amendments to the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has removed the fact that priority in the selection of council members always comes to the judges of the largest courts because of the unbalanced territoriality and representation of judges in the council. Furthermore, the intention is to increase transparency in the property card system as well as to specify the prescribed tightening measures and stricter conditions for the appointment of judges. And the full informing of all judicial authorities. In this way, higher criteria or standards are set in the case-law than they have been so far, which should also contribute to the quality of judicial decisions themselves. The rules governing the strict material and moral responsibility of judges are, in the opinion of the president of the DSV at the moment, satisfactory. For information on the decision-making of the public authority, there is a great public interest as well as a public interest to know about the way the public works so that it can play a supervisory role and act preventively on the legality and regularity of work, the publication of public functions and the spending of public funds. The public works are primarily intended for the general public who wants to make direct insight into the work of the public authorities who are also the owners of the authorities. The law on the right to access information in Article 12 provides for a public commitment to work for public authorities. The way the Council works according to the DSV Act is prescribed to the Rules of Procedure on its work and the public of the work of the Council is provided and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information. According to the DSV Rules of Procedure, Article 10 of the Labour Public shall be ensured by regular notification of meetings, decisions and other Council activities. Council meetings to discuss and decide on general issues are public. The court's appointment procedure and president is also public. In the procedure of dispensing judges, vacating judges from performing their duties, granting authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings, authorising the deprivement of liberty, and in the strict procedure, the public is excluded unless, on a proposal from the judge on whose plight of responsibility, i.e. whose plight procedure is therefore sought public involvement. In particular, Article 13 of the Law amending and supplementing the DSV Act, which entered into force on 1 September 2018, and in accordance with which the Council's obligation to publish all decisions and acts on the Council's website is particularly highlighted, and prevents the recording of talks with candidates in the proceedings before the Council. In relation to Article 62(6) of the Law, which provides for the recording of talks with candidates in the procedures for the appointment and transfer of an audiovisual device on the Council's website, it is indicated that a similar solution is prescribed by the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the DSV Act, which leaves the possibility for the Council to decide whether and when to record and publish the talks before the Council. However, even with this arrangement, the current law does not prevent a candidate from seeking to record his conversation with the DSV himself if he considers that he will be discriminated against in making the decision. It is considered that by prescribing the obligation to record all talks in the process of appointing them before the Council and their real-time transfer would significantly undermine the independence of the councils in decision-making on candidates. Likewise, judges would be exposed to unnecessary additional stress during the talks and would be placed in a worse position than other candidates in the proceedings and the parties they are in contact with, in the debates as private data can be presented in the talks. Such solutions do not in any way contribute to the transparency of decision-making of candidates, but in the professional and broad public it can quite justifiably create the impression that DSV makes a decision only and exclusively based on the conversation carried out and regardless of any other legal criteria prescribed or previously established points of each candidate. We also believe that by conveying real-time talks in a more unfavourable position, therefore, those candidates who would come first in these talks for reasons that both the criteria and the questions asked to the candidates could be seen and would therefore be available on the web pages or in the media in which these issues are published. I also believe that the transfer of real-time talks would open up another unsatisfactory area for the presidents of the courts and for certain therefore important duties in the judiciary we choose showmen, we choose people who know how to communicate with the public, not those who professionally, independently, self-awarely, therefore and responsibly behave their duties and do their job. It is also unclear and contradictory to the provision of Article 99(2) of the Law which provides that all information on the property of the judges referred to in Article 98 of this Act is public and published on the Council’s website but must not allow the identification of the person to whom they relate. In this area, actually, when you come to courts where you have a small number of judges, a small number of candidates, it's very easy to connect the property of a judge to a particular person. Perhaps in Zagreb and in some major environments, this is not the case, but I come from Slavonski Brod, and I know therefore that such a puzzle that would be created in public in connecting property and connecting persons and property is very likely and very easy to connect and do. When assessing judges, in fact, colleague Podolnjak presented certain facts about what the situation was, what the situation was and what we should offer in the future as a perspective or what would be good. Even with one part of the debate on the assessment of judges, I could agree, however, that the involvement of the Minister or President of the Supreme Court in the system of evaluation or in giving any guidance to the DSV or any body that assesses the work of the judges, is, therefore, the interference of judges and the violation of their independence in the conduct of their daily activities and the conduct of the work. According to Article 77. The Law on Courts of Justice Methods, there are 5 criteria in determining the quality of the work of judges. These are, the number of decisions in the types of cases, absolute numbers and percentages, respect for the deadlines for decision-making and decision-making, the fate of first instance decisions in the appeal procedure, confirmed, abolished or amended, hence the judgments in absolute numbers, as a percentage, in relation to the number of decisions made and the extent to which decisions are lifted due to significant infringements of the procedure. Furthermore, the participation of judges in forms of professional training as well as any other procedures and activities relating to judicial duty shall also be taken into account. Other legal systems such as the German or Slovenian judiciary do not highlight the number of resolved court files as a criterion of crucial importance for the assessment of judges. Personally, I do not think that the interest of a judge is an interest whose quality could be seen in how quantitatively the judge has made a decision over a certain period of time. All people are different, so are the judges, some under the burden of norms will quickly conclude the debates and make judgments, but therefore more judgments in the second degree will be amended or abolished while other judges prefer to conform to the slow-moving model but with a higher probability that first-degree rulings will be confirmed. Since this is just one of the laws that are part of a larger whole, it is also visible from some proposed reorganisation of the judiciary where appeal courts of the second degree appear and it may be important to view this law as a whole as part of a package of some law, a law which wishes to make some kind of change. Professionalising the work of the President of the Council in fact and his deputies in such a way that their judicial duty rests and that they exercise the right to pay in the court in which they were appointed would be possible only if both the President and the Vice President were judges. Col. Podolnjak actually said that he opposed it, or he did not just say it, but was indicated in the legislative proposal that parliamentary representatives should be members of the DSV. The only university professors who have the opportunity to be president of the DSV are now remaining, and I don't know why you think that none of your fellow university professors enjoy the reputation of judges so that they can support him in his decision to run for president of the DSV. The Constitution has given certain rights and certain possibilities, I believe that the law cannot actually take that possibility away. I would therefore like to conclude at the very end of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club that this law, the bill of law, cannot and will not be supported, that we stand by the Ministry of Justice in the decision to amend and supplement the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145595	Thank you, fellow Simic. We're crossing... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] On behalf of the promoter, please welcome Mr. Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, but let me take a brief look at what you said on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. In fact, there is obviously a dispute between us over the composition of the DSV, although it is not formally the content of this legislative proposal and cannot be, I cannot understand your position, and I assume the obvious position of the party, that there is nothing controversial about the fact that DSV members as one independent and independent body that decides on the appointment, promotion, resolution and strict responsibility of judges, persons who are part of the legislative authority, two parliamentary representatives who, by no logic, should be part of the DSV and indeed question what was the idea of this constitutional change that among those 11 members, there must be just 2 of this representative body. Why? So that they can monitor DSV debates, see how they decide which candidate will pass, which they will not pass, so there are two of them in relation to the 9 remaining members and indeed only contribute to the fact that the body is at least a little politicised and should not be. It would be more logical if we had 11 members, that we had 7 judges like now and for example 4 professors of legal science with four law schools in the Republic of Croatia. And then any law school, let's say by agreement between law schools, could propose one candidate who could pass. Two MPs, in that sense, one from the parliamentary majority, one from the opposition, by us, contribute to a certain extent to politicisation and that we, as you say, are representatives of the citizens who are elected here, that is correct but we cannot be in any executive body. There is an incompatibility of our duties, and in my view we should fully separate the role of MPs from certain bodies that have to be independent and independent and deal with this particular case of DSV dealing with the sole issue of the judicial branch, therefore, from the appointment of judges, promotion, decision on resolution or strict responsibility of judges, therefore it is a running branch, a judicial branch and we prescribe by law everything necessary for the work of the DSV, but that there are two other members of this HS that are in that body and in certain situations in the extreme line may be too much to decide. I can also be too much of a decision to make, and maybe that's why, for example, you say no and the government that DSV sessions are being recorded and that the public actually has insight. Your argument is that the candidates would be exposed to unnecessary additional stress during the interview because they could also be presented with their private data. It says so in the government's explanation that they could be in a worse position than other candidates, etc. They could be exposed to extra stress. But they're actually competing for one public duty and I don't think that has anything to do with stress.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145597	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. We have a replica, dear colleague Marko Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145598	Dear colleague Podolnjak. So, I think that this issue should certainly be brought forward, to do one particular reflection at the level of legal doctrine and legal science for reasons why, if we look at the government coming from the people, the only representatives of the people, so in the participation in the judicial authority, it is precisely these representatives of HS in the DSV and I said there are no objections. When you look at the members proposed by HS members of the DSV, you can see that they are lawyers with a certain experience. Since both, since one representative comes from the ranks of the position and the other from the opposition, that is what the seriousness we propose in such a body is, with what experience we propose there and therefore send it there. And I wouldn't agree with you to say that they're just following the DSV MPs just following the choice. the person to be elected on duty. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145599	Thank you, fellow Simic. Answer me, comrade Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145600	Thank you. But, dear colleague, it remains unclear to the end, I have not disputed that the candidates proposed and elected by HS have no particular evolution, that they are not graduate lawyers, that they have certain expertise in this regard. However, the key question is, what are those two in the body of 11 members in which seven are from the ranks of judges? So, they can't necessarily influence like the two of them, two out of 11, but in some situations, I said, it might be too much, and it wouldn't be good to be too much of a decision-makers, because then, in fact, it would have gotten the impression that politics in some way decided to appoint or advance judges, and that wouldn't be a good perception.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145601	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Stjepan Curaj, is not present. A colleague, Ivan Pernar, is not present. Comrade Gordan Maras, not present. The following has appeared for individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145602	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This proposal would get what is required of the DSV. So there would be independence and independence of that body. The fingers of politics are in this... At least, at least well, and that's why today we have the fact that, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia least trust the judiciary, the judiciary, we see that it's a pure political body, the DSV because I'm going to repeat the simple thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comrade Lackovic is part of the majority. He was in the DSV and he sued a fellow MP, and he appointed judges, so he is one of those who will vote who will be the judge, he evaluates the judge and he sued his colleague. How will that judge judge rule? That's what the cadiya's suing you, the cadiya's judging you. If any body has to be apolitical, out of politics, it's the same for you, it's good, Professor. Podolnik said that we are parliamentary representatives, ministers, ministerial assistants, so in this case, but this is the judiciary. This is about justice. This is about where citizens have to believe in law, justice is unattainable for Croatia. Right. They have to have some kind of trust. We have more trust in the judiciary. No more citizens. No one has trust anymore. For what? Here's to cases like this. Even if the MP decides otherwise, it's simply a big mistrust. We have to, here, in front of the government, expect, here, from the secretary to come out and say all those reformers that were praised by HDZ just now, the reforms they've implemented, all the reforms they've done, they've done damage. If there was anything commendable, I'd commend it. If we mention judicial reform, here's the thing you've put out, you've brought back ten courts of municipal, and the most important areas where the courts were a tradition, where the aliens opened during Austro-Hungarian, Austria, the courts where they were opened, while it was here, you closed it. By increasing the powers we offer here, that body must have great powers, but must not be politicized. The very message to our citizens that two parliamentary deputies in this body is enough. And I don't see any reason, no reason, no reason why the government doesn't support it, and I expect it to address the government's representative here, to deny in any way why they have to be parliamentary representatives in the DSV? It's too much of a people's mistrust, so it's not just a message, even if it isn't, it's not a good message to be inside the HS. We are a legislative body, we are passing the law, the government is an executive body, the court is independent, independent, it is quite another, the executive power, the judicial authority, the legislative authority, and here, all of a sudden, the legislative authority and the judicial authority are intertwined, the representatives of the legislative authority in the judicial authority, and we are in violation of the fact that there is a trio of the authorities that we are all calling for, and we are all calling for an independent and independent judiciary, and that is why an independent and independent judiciary, as a special part of the government in the Republic of Croatia, should not be influenced by politics, politicians, and here we directly have 2 parliamentary representatives in the body who choose judges, assess judges, influence decision-making. And this proposal that MOST gives to record these sessions when candidates who come there in front of DSV members is quite reasonable, is it also a mistrust in the reception of candidates in justice, in the judiciary. Therefore, the judicial authority is the most important authority, trust, we are variable, the judicial power must be continuity, it must not be the source of the political moment, no matter what you call it, the people chose us, so you said to a fellow Simic, the people chose us, that the people chose us, but the Republic has a trio of power, it is impossible to be a parliamentary representative minister at the same time. And in this case, we would just put everything back in place with this proposal. This is about, therefore, direct political interference by over 2 parliamentary representatives in the judicial power. It's easy for what fellow Shakespeare named a godfather in the President of the Constitutional Court, what he put it into his club president, it's a minor problem, which we all know is how it put it together, it's a formula by Shakespeare. But here's the problem, here's the problem of what I directly get as MPs, as the legislative body that people choose and tribals to be people's representatives, but you don't want to accept. Lovro Kuščević does not wish to accept a referendum that the people at least say how to choose parliamentary representatives or how Seks makes the list or how the people choose by preferential votes, even that part does not want to, so that is all under question, but such is the electoral law as it is, and therefore we believe that we are the people's representatives. But that someone decides from this parliament in the judgment council, so it is a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the government's trio, not a tribune for it to be a great expert, not a triba great expert, and it is not a problem for experts who say the triba to be different. For what? If they want their paws over the judiciary, they want their paws over the judiciary, the judiciary and the judiciary are separate authorities, branches of government, independent of the executive authority and independent of this body, and until it is in the Republic of Croatia, believe that we will have an even greater demographic downturn, an even worse economic picture, and that we will simply have no interest in investors to invest in this non-competitive state, and only because of the judiciary, one of the very good is the judiciary, selectivity within the judiciary and large paws of Croatian politics. That's what you stand for, this proposal takes a handful of politics off of Croatia, from the judiciary, from the DSV, which has a huge impact, in fact it's about the courts, the judges, it's basically the roof, it's the one who decides everything. So, I think the Tribals would think of this, that the Tribals would be open and public message to send to people because of the mistrust of one of the most ministries, something they don't believe most in and what they consider to be the source of corruption, the source of the problem, because the slowness, the tromness and the impact of the policy on the judiciary, on the courts, that's what all the research says. If so, let's simply remove my legislative body from us, not the tribune of the government if we don't want the government, the government obviously wants its tentacles everywhere so that it can put pressure on people, even from its parties to keep quiet, that's what they do, that's in their interest, and I'll also be on the side of the weaker personally whatever orders they get in Brussels or whatever orders they get from their own, from Shexes or I don't know who. So, you get your hands off the judiciary, your paws aren't supposed to be the esteemed secretary, Vice President HS, the DSV policy. And about that, I'm sorry, here's Professor. The protractor said that, elaborated, proposed, simply regained the trust of our citizens to the judiciary, and we would basically send a clear message to our citizens that simply more policies i.e. Legislative power, i.e. HS, i.e. Croatian lawmakers will no longer have interference in the DSV. You look for a model and we offer it, if you have a better we will accept it, but admit it once and understand once and listen to a little people, go outside these lights, you will see that the biggest mistrust and most people are frustrated with Croatian courts, so at least that declarative message, this would even be, this would even be a clear message that HS raises policy influences within the DSV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145603	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. My colleague Bulj, just to remind you from 2016 to 2017, your colleague from MOST was a member of the DSV, as far as I know. I would like to thank another representative of the motion, Mr Robert Podolnjak, and the government representative, Mr. Secretary of State Josip Salapic, for his participation in the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues with this have exhausted all the points of the agenda for today, we continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Final proposal of the Weather Hydrological Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 629. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. SESSION Interrupted at 18.25 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-26-0.u145604	Proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. Number 401. The proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 7 abstentions and 7 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before we continue to work, just the information for tomorrow, so we'll start working at 9.30 and we'll be clear about the amendments that aren't as much as I've heard from my colleague Bukarica and the vote will be at 10:30. So, please, you'll all get information by email of course, but here's to tell your colleagues that the vote is at 10:30. We're going to the agenda now. First point: - Final proposal of the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity, second reading, P.Z. No. 629; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is respected Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Here you go.
