ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139112	Next statement of view on behalf of the Club of National Minorities, a respected colleague, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is already somewhat declassified and scrupulous to say how important language is to the identity of every nation and every individual, every citizen living in a particular area, or how important identity is to make, how important language is to achieve the identity of the people and identity of the individual. If that were not the case, it would not be in 1967 or the Declaration of Croatian, when a group of intellectuals and how they realized how important that language is for emancipation, so to speak, the cultural emancipation of the people and of all individuals in that people, in this case to the Croats. This is of course true for minorities, for minority national groups, it means for them, in fact, if their language is officially used in a particular area, it means only one thing. You're in that area at home. What's the big deal? It's not abstract stuff. These are very specific things. That is why, in an operational plan signed by minorities, which is actually derived from the programme, the government's programme signed, minorities signed the operational programme with the Croatian government. It says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in cooperation with the units of local self-government, will ensure consistent application of the right to the official use of the Italian language, this is, of course, Italians, in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, etc., will promote the protection of the development of the right to official use of language and, most importantly, all in accordance with the laws, statutes of the units of local self-government and interstate agreements. When it comes to interstate agreements, I will, of course, list those which Croatia signed in 1996 with Italy in which it writes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to implement the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Italian Republic on minority rights, to analyse the possibility of further promoting minority rights referred to in Article. 3 This Treaty will propose to the Italian Republic the establishment of a permanent mixed commission, but what is important is what it says in this article. 3. In that article. 3 It says that the rights, including, of course, the language rights of the Italian minority, will spread to all places where the Italian minority in Croatia is historically living. It also says Slovenia, but we will be limited to Croatia here. And now I'm coming to actually on the subject of this brief exposure of mine. The river is an important environment for the Italian minority, but in Rijeka, Liburnia, has not since 1990, no significant shifts have been made in terms of protection and improvement in accordance with the interstate contract and improvement of the language rights of the Italian minority. That goes for all of Liburni. The Italian language is important to the river culture and none of the real Riverain is going to tell you anything contrary to what I said today. Let us take, just now, a colleague of Sladolev spoke about fans, how important language is and how important it has entered all the pores and Croatian cultures of Rijeka culture, not only of course Italian, Italian and speaks and the fact that in Rijeka, Armada actually has the slogan Forza fiume spoken in Italian and thus wants to show its part of its identity. Now, recently, some shifts have been made in Rijeka, but there are some difficulties. It will be introduced in 2020, and it should have already been before, before the declaration of Rijeka by the city of culture, before that year, it will be introduced by odyon, meaning the old names of several streets in the old heart of the city. We're expecting this in the third month. It happens, and it hasn't happened yet. [[Intruder: colleague.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139114	I thank my esteemed colleague, Radina.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139115	So, according to the reporting order, the first one will be the National Minority Representatives' Club in the name of which the respected representative Furio Radin and the vice president of this high house will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Health Minister Milan Kujundzic's response, if not for the ministry, that his ministry rejected a pilot project by the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County that would save 70 lives annually does not satisfy anyone. And not only from a health point of view but it is intruding in the attempt to establish a positive practice with the country of Slovenia that we are almost unable to agree on otherwise. So where Zagreb and Ljubljana do not take any steps to improve relations, local reality seeks answers and finds them because, historically, Dragonja lived and lived a rich life together. I recall improving emergency medical services in the cross-border area within the EU project. It is the former zone B whose fate is resolved by the Insert Agreement that is recited by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and which lays down the basic rules of common life and cross-border cooperation between then two and today three countries. Simply, emergency cases would be processed in Izola because the hospital is only a few miles from the border and from municipalities and cities that are in the former zone B. In this area until 1990. Cross-border co-operation was a rule, not an exception and the entire territory was gravitated to a hospital in Izola 80km from Pula Hospital. Of course, there have been a number of other forms of cross-border cooperation, again on the basis of a positive understanding of interstate agreements. In other words, this is an area of extraordinary co-operation, and I remind you that today the EU is giving us the opportunity to find forms of cooperation again, and we reject them, rather than developing cross-border cooperation in every way, because it would be fatal, for example. In exceptional circumstances requiring rapid intervention, it would be fatal to wait, for example. Fire department or other assistance from the south of Istria when they're a few miles away, of course with maximum reciprocity. The pilot research, otherwise, supported the Ministry of Health immediately below the minister in April at a joint meeting in Istria and predicted, as it envisions minimal emergency medical care for the people of Umag, Buja, Novigrad and Grožnjan and Brtonigli who would be transferred to the hospital in Izola and there their lives would be saved. Not getting into the details, the response the Ministry of Health received from HZZO was black to white, says it is not possible because it would create discriminatory relations with other areas, introducing neither the guilty nor the debtors of Metkovic and Ploč. In other words, since our health care is not fully able to play its part in the south of the Republic of Croatia, it should also be disabled in the northwest of the Republic of Croatia, or in Istria, instead of establishing an example. Co-operation with the Mostar hospital, which we paid, among other things, and we taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, are tearing it down in projects in other parts of the country. The director of HZZO's story and extends, thus asking himself and all of us one question, who will pay the costs of a hypothetical Italian tourist who will be urgently transferred to the hospital, Croatian or Italian health insurance? Let us hope that the Italian tourists will never know what doubts are plagued by our health policy. The minister says, in his statement that it is not the opinion of the ministry, I take it into consideration, but I also note that if it is not the opinion of the ministry then it is the opinion of the HZZO and the circle closes again, so the documents and statements and I conclude, I know that ministers do not write letters, and I suppose also directors of HZZO, but I sign them, I propose to the Minister and the Director to take a step back and to allow the multicultural area to function on the basis of good cooperation, rather than imposed conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139118	We are moving to apply for a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives in front of the Club of National Minorities, Mr Veljko Kajtazi applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139119	... The representatives of the local self-government unit step forward after the medieval protest. [[Specially enabled.]] Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The teaching development of the situation in the last few days and even some of us have come forward in a protest held in Čakovec called "I Want a Normal Life". I want to say a few things that after the protest was held that I am once again surprised that neither officials nor part of the MUP, and especially representatives of the local self-government unit are not aware of their nonsense by saying that the protest is not discrimination. Regardless of what almost all the speakers at the rally spoke about the entire Roma community by linking them to certain habits and deviations such as criminal behavior, disorder and the like. Shockingly, highly educated people and local leaders do not understand what is at stake with the protest and what is discrimination. I believe that this logic is not controversial nor racial laws that tell them exactly what we could hear in the protest that the individuals spoken would not be ashamed of Robert Rutter and that it is more certain that a criminal biology institute is established in Međimurje than that a Roma would be employed in the institution of the Međimurje County. It is unclear that they do not understand how their fellow Roma citizens feel after the protests and that the only reaction both states and units of local self-government is to send additional police forces. Of course it is necessary, of course we agree with this step, of course the Roma want a normal life, but the problem of the Roma cannot solve the MUP and the problem of the Roma is not criminality, but it is the result of something that our society is responsible for. Just a few days after the protest, several incidents occurred in Međimurje County, and yesterday in the neighbouring county, the property that a Roma bought was amazed with the goal of separating itself from a bad environment and to start a better life. The perpetrator openly admitted that he had done so because he did not want gypsies nearby. I repeat, he doesn't want gypsies around. It's naive to believe that it's all unrelated to the message... When we look at the social institution or the education structure of the Roma, we ask the institution and when we try to develop employment strategies and education of the institution, we regularly agree that they do not keep records of such data in a way that citizens stand out according to nationality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, for days in the media, we see that it is quite right for the Ministry and representatives of local self-government units to publicly repeat the information as 70% of works that are contrary to the law in Međimurje to commit Roma. Suddenly it became okay to single out statistics on a national basis and that's not a problem for anyone. I wonder where the statistics on how many Roma have been attacked lately and on the nationality of the perpetrators of these acts. Where are the data on the nationality of those who oppress the Roma? I wonder what else would have happened if someone in the central square had organized an assembly in which he would have pointed out that among the Jews, the Croats, the Germans had good people even though the majority did. The reaction of the county, the city, the service, or most of those I have called at least inadequate, is not true that there was no cooperation, that there was no and that there would be no cooperation. I've been in Međimurje at least 300 times in the last two years, so I claim to be there every other day. What the Roma community expected to protect us from such attacks. I repeat, individuals process and that I was the first to encourage the topic of stealing and harassing within the settlement, not since yesterday and the biggest victims of it are Roma, but police and courts have not yet prosecuted any such person. On the contrary, such individuals now organize together with them a gathering, repeating such individuals now organize together with them a gathering. We have done a lot in Međimurje, but it is simply not enough, and this problem cannot be solved by one parliamentary representative, nor can that problem be solved by the police or by the government alone. For this reason, I call on all my colleagues here to support the efforts made by the Roma roof organisation in Croatia, KALI SARA, what we are trying through the government's operational programme and what I am negotiating with all the mayors and mayors. If we call the Roma publicly by calling for statistics, then I call for respects the number of Roma in Međimurje and that the mayors and mayors, mayors and others who do not see [[Mr. Katazi, thank you.]] The problem in the sentence, yes and among the Roma there are good [[Thank you, sir.]] People, they target their forces in a Roma settlement, of course they can't do it alone, but it's not true. [[Intruder: We can't do the Keatazi anymore, thank you.]] that the settlement cannot be paved, communal order introduced, employment [[Thank you, Mr. Kajtazi, we can't do that.]] At least one Roma in the administrative bodies. [[Mr. Kajtazi, we can't do this anymore.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139120	It's time, time is inexorably sorry. Please, please don't intervene from the audience talking about a serious matter. I'm sorry that you're raising papers has nothing to do with the work of the assembly. It has nothing to do with the work of the assembly. Would you like a reminder, Mr. Culey? You want a warning? You have a warning. A reminder for Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139121	Now according to article. 249 is the time to present the position of the Club of Representatives. The first statement of the position of the Club of Representatives is an esteemed colleague of the Vice-President of the Parliament, a colleague of Furio Radin. Here's your colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139122	Thank you very much. Brig-Gen Sergio Rabar would never have earned our attention if he had not received the cover of the Istrian daily newspaper and two pages of interviews with statements that, by any chance, belonged to some kind of speech, would have been statements of hate speech. What he says, unfortunately, HDZ councilman in the hunting town council, while, as the article says, Sergio, watch out for the heart attack, and the journalist notes that he is quickly excited, planed, erupted, and immediately afterwards smiles, winks and continues to call him the enfants of the slave politics. And no one needs to explain to us what the journalist is trying to tell us when a man over 70 years old calls the Enfants, a child. What does that, unfortunately, slave councilman say? Like any honest chauvinist, the general begins with a statement that he has nothing against the Italians. But right after that he claims that they... to conduct the Italianization of Istria, in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] with IDS and that of them, i.e. Croatia is a country that means nothing to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the bad enfant zalaufa says that on the roads in Istria everything is written only in Italian, to Italianize children and to impose Italian on Croats and Croats in Istria. After that, the brakes cancel him, obey him, and admit that when he came to Rovinj in 1952, there were 90% of Italians around him, mimics their speech, which he himself learned and the general begins to play onamatopheic sounds by imitating what Rovinj is saying. It could be said that the general is stuttering or acting like an idiot, but no, Sergio, for some of his unhealthy reasons, only intends to humiliate the Italians. And now by skipping a bunch of Rabar nonsense whose article is abundant, the best comes. When Sergio does his best to discuss history. Anyway, in Istria, the Italians were all fascists or what was ugly and corrupt, liberals. The anti-fascist partisans were one couple of hundred, in my town, in Pula, 450 lost their lives as anti-fascists, most of them were Italians, just like in parentheses. That's why it's understandable they were thrown in the foybs, he says. And the reason everything was Mussolini's, now listen up, Republic of Del Sole. Yes, you heard very well, Mussolini was at the head of the Republic of the Sun. And it's not a mistake because all the other Italian terms in the article are perfectly written. That enfanté an general. Or in short form, this General, that honors the Academy of the Land Army from the last system, he realized that Fascist and Criminal Repubblica di Salo is actually the Republic of the Sun. And we naive Italians from Istria thought it was the Republic of the Dark. It simply falls hands of impotence and words are not enough to describe such a case which I only see for reasons about which they have written the paper in due time, but which are to this extent personal, that I not as a representative could use, but as a psychologist, which I can't, I don't want to enter. But, of course, they make me read the interview with different eyes. The sun’s republican theorist therefore fails to insult or anger but only to be saddened. I know that the Istrians are not just from Rovinj revolted. I know my countrymen, not only Rovinjese, and not only in Istria, are bitter and rightly. That's why Sergio, I'm not going to use big passwords. You don't deserve them. And I'll just tell you to calm down, that everything's under control, that you're listening to your wife and that you're thinking of health. Don't be disappointed, but the Republic of the Sun never existed. Maybe only the sun beats too much these days. Perhaps she has the right of a journalist to have educated General Sergio Rabar run away from a poet in Istria and his party colleagues ask if anyone might have beaten him when he was little. He claims he didn't, but God would know, I can't figure it out. Please fellow MPs and colleagues take these words seriously and do not put them in the cartoon context that I have presented so far. A million ethnic non-Croatians disappeared from the Croatian census after II. World War II, part of them were Italians, about them today almost, in them today almost only an ethnically consistent country no one speaks of as a demographic loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139123	I thank my colleague, Radina. Next on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139125	... esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] In a short time, I have to talk again from this pay phone about problems and rebellion against Roma, this time in Zagreb in Petrusevec where another performance against Roma took place yesterday this time under cover of extraordinary care for them where a number of socially endangered Roma families should move into the disputed construction. The concern was manifested yesterday in a way that the citizens of Petruševec outside of themselves were concerned about these Roma families decided to block their immigration from their bodies. I stress that this is not an ideal solution or that the conditions in the disputed facility are excellent but it is certainly a major step forward for a part of these families living in inhumane conditions, without drinking water, without basic infrastructure, without electricity, in barracks, unworthy of human life. In such conditions they have lived for one or two years and so far I have not had the opportunity to see anyone rebelled, protested, resisted the intervention police in order to point out their living conditions but do so today because in this location, the radiators are not adequate and of course, and these protesters, as they will say a month ago, will say they have nothing against the Roma but to take care of their well-being. That concern was so much so that Roma had a sense of discomfort again, so there were statements in this direction... As I quote, “it was terrible to see so many people protesting our arrival, not worrying when we were living in Strugs under terrible conditions, this is a rescue for me because my children will finally have a house with electricity and water. ” [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Earlier on, I talked to the citizens of Petrusevec on several occasions, and I received their delegation here at HS. I will also remind you that this is not the first protest against Roma migration, but that all of these initiatives have finally been successful, and those who have possibly done the problems have been removed. That's the kind of model we Roma stand for because we're sick of generalizing and objectifying. They are not happy with this solution either, but we must accept that a bad solution is better than no solution and that it is not acceptable from moral and from every other level to welcome children in the City of Zagreb in winter 2019, snow and weather accidents in barracks without electricity, water and isolation. It's something that's been going on for years, and on the other hand, we expect more from these people than the conditions allow. It's a vicious circle of housing, education, employment and health care that needs to be approached in parallel, if we want results. Although it is not an ideal solution, the City of Zagreb has the support of the Roma community in this case, and everyone else will have access to this problem in any way. At the very end, I announce that those who are doing any problems will not have the support of the Roma community, just as those who do not have problems in other Roma settlements, and what has once again escalated in Kursanc, Međimurje, where the driver of the car crashed into a pregnant 20-year-old girl and took the vehicle to the concrete edge of the fence. In a car accident, she sustained severe bodily injuries, amputated both her legs. The driver who blamed the accident was in an alcoholic state and was driving at an inappropriate rate. Such a Roma community also do not want, such a Roma community does not justify it. The Roma community also wants a normal life, and it will not help us protest against the Roma but rather small steps that this time the City of Zagreb, and hopefully, tomorrow and other environments improve the conditions of life of endangered citizens of all nationalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u139126	I would like to thank my colleagues, Katazia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141961	Good afternoon. The first item of the agenda today is: - Proposal for a Law on Private Protection, first reading, P.Z. No. 635 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Before I give my word to Mr. Zarko Katic, Secretary of State at the MUP, I would like to welcome the students and students of the High School of Velika Gorica, welcome them with a round of applause, thank you for being with us. Thank you very much, I suppose Mr. Zarko Katić would like to present the proposal for a private protection law, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141962	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and the MPs. Security is one of the fundamental human needs and since man is, he longs for it and wants to have it, however, rarely when in human history he has experienced this security to a sufficient extent to be happy and satisfied. Today, wars, riots, uncertainty, predatory, or general uncertainty continue to rule in many of his temples. Modern states have sought to provide and ensure a sufficient level of security for their citizens, but not always, and often today, in many parts and countries, it is not possible. We live in Europe, on many of the safest continents and in a country for which many, perhaps not so much we are not aware but many foreigners who come here the first thing you notice is security. It is safe to invest, but, of course, the complete ones are never there and always work on it. In addition to that security provided by the state, and this law, which is your turn, so the Private Protection Act, defines private protection as that protection that is beyond the scope provided by the State and beyond that scope provided by the State, so something an individual or an economic operator wants and is willing to pay for it. Protection activity in the area of the Republic of Croatia has experienced its expansion in the 1990s, it is also linked to the development of private ownership on which our economic and political system is based. The first regulation thus governing the matter of private protection in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Protection of Persons and Assets, which was adopted in '96. g. which lays the foundations of private protection in the Republic of Croatia as well as the activities of private detectives who have also begun their affirmative path. Therefore, by developing private ownership, security is growing into a serious economic branch as technology in the field of physical protection grows in the field of technical protection, the number of security companies is growing and the demand for security profession personnel is increasing. The growth of security activities is also updated and regulations are also adopted as a result of today's Private Protection Act 2003 with its two novels 2010, which mainly concerned the adaptation of the rules for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. The law on private protection as obligors of application includes currently here, data from mid-April this year, 253 companies for physical and technical protection, 111 crafts of technical protection and 147 internal guards with a total of 16 447 active persons with permission to carry out private protection activities. The training of these security guards, technical security guards, is carried out by 49 institutions that have received from the MUP, resulting in prescribed work permits. According to the Private Protection Act, 11 sublegal acts are also in force, which are more detailed and elaborated on that area. Therefore, in the last 10 years private protection has been imposed more as a significant security branch and the need to protect persons and property but not just more in the scope of purely private ownership greater within the framework of the general social, economic and other activities that take place in the public sector and in the overall social environment. In recent years, therefore, more specific rules have been introduced which recognise private protection as a need for additional protection and where private protection has been established and as a basic protection, for example, the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions was passed in 2016, although it was not the first law, there was another law from mid-first decade 2007 which has, therefore, the scope of the application of the physical and technical protection performed by legal persons and crafts with the approval of private protection, but with an emphasis on the protection of persons in buildings or in business, therefore, in buildings, where money is operated, where money is kept, hence, banks, Croatian mail offices, business courts, automatic clubs, late exchanges and jewelry stores, jewelry stores, etc. But, therefore, in those businesses, which are distributed money, as well as of course in the protection of business assets. Similarly, certain regulations governing the protection of persons and property, the storage of dangerous substances, the protection of certain objects of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia, and sources and ionising importance also base their protection on the application of private protection. Protection activity does not belong to a service group and is not subject to the obligation to comply with the rules governing the provision of services, in accordance with the 2011 Service Act, private protection, so... belongs to the security economic branch and is engaged in the protection of citizens, their assets, thus providing support and complementing the fundamental protection of the state, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also applied in cases where, despite the security, public protection, the user wants to increase its own safety, above that provided by the state, as I was saying at the outset. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2013, more than 1.5 million private contractors were employed in Europe, so there were 40,000 private security companies, and these figures grew in the coming years, and the traffic of these companies amounted to around 35 billion euros throughout the world 2016. The value of the private security sector at global level was estimated at $200 billion, and it was the figure, and it was about 100,000 private security companies, with about 3.5 million employees. Similarly, to date, no single directive, regulation or regulation has been adopted in the EU, which would hypnotise the activities of private protection at Union level, but rather, this activity is governed by national legislation, in accordance with internal social, political, therefore, economic, social, geostrategic security and other conditions which are within each Member State. The security of the population and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia are certainly the fundamental preconditions of the state's survival, with all its functions, which is one of the basic national interests and homeland security. For safe society, it is necessary to protect lives, to save people, to protect goods, and to protect critical infrastructures. This is, above all, understandable, when considering a large number of licensed persons involved in private protection, which in some countries... with a total number of police officers or even above it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With us, therefore, the security guard is slightly smaller than the number of police officers, but it is approaching it, which is certainly, so all of these security guards need to be included in the security system, with the constant rise in the level of knowledge and risk assessment and, of course, new with the use of new security and technical and technological achievements. The incentive for the adoption of the Private Protection Act is therefore initiated by the Ministry of the Interior, in order to improve, i.e., better application of physical and technical protection in practice. The need to do so has been established through the supervision carried out under the applicable Private Protection Act, carried out by inspectors and private protection, but also, of course, on the indications of law enforcement obligations, i.e. employers of users of security companies, trade unions and other stakeholders in this activity. In doing so, the working group that developed this bill, which is in front of you, also consisted of representatives of social partners, employers and trade unions. It would therefore mention, and the national security strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2017 provides for the inclusion of private security legal entities in the home security system, which is to further develop, that private protection is to be updated and raised to higher quality, and the fact that the share of private protection in providing security services in important economic or infrastructure facilities is increasing. Here's what we can see on an example of airports. Therefore, all this which is intended to be achieved by this law is only possible under the conditions of effective activity and private protection of training, trained and equipped for preventive and operational action, in situations of high risk, applying primaryly, therefore, acting primarily, as preventive, but as support to other institutions, primarily police, when indicated and if needs are indicated. The basic issues that, we want, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to achieve by this law would be the shortest. Coordination of business conditions for legal and physical entities, in the Republic of Croatia and those coming from the Republic, from other countries. Therefore, conditions are laid down allowing private protection activities in our country and interested legal and physical persons from the EU to equalise the conditions for obtaining permission to carry out these tasks with those which apply to equal legal and physical affairs and crafts in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore proposed that foreign legal entities must establish a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia and meet other conditions, such as spatial technical, organisational, personal and security, which also have Croatian legal entities to carry out this activity. Similarly, the issue of carrying out occasional and temporary activities in accordance with the specific regulations governing this area is regulated by this law. This law also introduces new categories of persons with which the level of quality of private protection is raised. It is thus prescribed to prescribe conditions for persons who have previously acquired a permit, i.e. a licence to carry out security tasks, which, after further training has been carried out and the examination passed, would obtain permission to carry out high-risk tasks as a security specialist. The activities of specialising in the performance of private protection activities, in particular physical protection, are not of course the innovation of the Republic of Croatia, but such practice is also being carried out in the EU. Above all, for the purposes of cross-border road transport of the euro to EU member states under which Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 on professional cross-border road transport of cash in euro between euro area Member States has been adopted. Therefore, this regulation requires, for example, the additional education and specialisation of security guards for the issue of a special certificate that documentes the acquired authority to carry out such a type of risk business. The applicant for the status of security guards shall be required to possess specific skills and knowledge and the employer shall be obliged to ensure a high level of equipment in order to apply in a legitimate, proportionate and justified manner the powers conferred on them by law. In addition to the specialization of security guards, this law also proposes the appointment of persons, in legal persons and crafts that will be responsible for the organisation and internal surveillance of security enforcement, and then also a new calling of security guards, it would be a security guard and manufacturer of a threat assessment as those categories of persons who are sufficiently professional, identify and analyse the risks and make judgments of the threat of facilities and spaces and carry out their categorisation. Furthermore, this law places private protection primarily as a security activity. It therefore clearly defines for the first time the private protection activity as a security activity with an economic feature to be continuously developed and improved in order to modernise its protection role in the security system. In order to do so, it is also necessary to raise the level of quality of private protection activities, especially physical protection to an even higher level. The technical protection and activity to be rapidly developed on a daily basis, and significant shifts in the quality and functionality of the application, however, need to be further regulated in the area of risk assessment, from which each application and determination of the type of protection of persons and property starts. The experience gained so far in monitoring the implementation of technical protection points to the excessive subjectivity of persons who make judgments on the threat of objects and to the absence of adequate quantitative indicators of the level of risk in protected facilities and premises. In that sense, this law will also give added value. We also believe that this activity could function in these frameworks that there is a need to establish a higher level of supervision of persons and private protection activities from the competent ministry and that is the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, this law also increases the powers of the inspectors and monitors of the MUPs to determine the compliance of operations with the provisions of the laws and therefore the mechanisms for fixing the facts in accordance with the new technologies and to facilitate the application of safeguards. Similarly, monetary sanctions are increased to a certain extent, which nevertheless seek firstly to prevent the application of the law. I would certainly stress here that, although the action of the inspection is clearly prescribed but it is always intended to act educationally first and then, if it is not, it does not bear fruit to give a certain order for correcting certain behaviours. If that does not bear fruit only then submit an indictment proposal and therefore approach the sanctioning of the obligors of the application of certain measures. We also consider certain changes that will help to reduce the time of entry of the security licence as well as approvals for the performance of private protection services for legal persons. In this law, only exceptional checks for natural persons shall be carried out if there is any doubt of the initiation of certain illegal actions. Therefore, this would not be an obligation for all persons if, on the basis of available documentation and insight into certain records, there are no doubts that they are not worthy of the job of security guards and security guards. This would certainly shorten the authorisation procedure for natural persons and crafts for a maximum period of one month. So it would take a month at the most. This law proposes to further reduce the level of qualifications needed, but only for the guards. The guards apply only a certain fund of powers, so that they do not apply certain powers primarily to the powers of use of coercion means, so that they do not carry on arms by carrying out the simplest tasks so that this law allows the security tasks which are therefore in the less demanding security activities to be carried out by persons who, in addition to other prescribed conditions which, of course, determines for all applicants, have completed only primary school. So far, a lower professional preparation has been prescribed, including some initial qualification or what was once called semi-qualification. In addition to the fact that security companies will then get the required number of employees to do such jobs, I think it may have some positive effects on higher employability because 30,365 unemployed persons with a finished primary school were registered in our country in the second half of last year. We think that the regulation of these conditions opens up opportunities for these people to work without, of course, affecting the safety and quality of their jobs. With this existing law, a security assessment, the verification is a responsible person in a legal person. This new law proposes and foresees that it can be implemented for other persons, such as those in the ownership structure of a particular company or other connected person. Therefore, the circle of persons for whom it is possible to carry out and carry out a thorough security check is expanded. So that activity would be in the right hands. Here are those basics, the basics of this new law that lies before you. I repeat what I said at the beginning, there is absolutely no absolute security, but we must seek as much security as possible. We sought to define this law a specific segment of security, private protection and to enable people who wanted to use it under clear and transparent conditions. Of course, perhaps we have failed at something, I am asking you to certainly make your comments and suggestions, suggestions, we will carefully consider them and I believe for a second reading to prepare an even more high-quality bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141963	Thank you, too. There's a lot of replicas, but before the replicas, I'd like to say one thing since there was a question. As you have understood and as announced yesterday when we were all in the assembly, we begin with the proposal of the Protection Act, with an annual report, I apologize, with the proposal of the Private Protection Act. After that, we will have a proposal for a Law on the Protection of Debtants in special cases of transfer of demand. So you know who wants to sign up. And by doing that, I'm told from the Secretariat that we're going to end today's debate. Now we move on, to replicas, Mr. Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State in this explanation and the law that you have explained to us, one question hangs over all of us in Croatia, I would say in the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about security, please tell me, is it really possible for a driver to spy on a respected HDZ minister of the interior? Is that possible in the Republic of Croatia and did that really happen? The Croatian public must know the answer to these questions. The prime minister does not give answers, HDZ does not give answers, Minister Bozinovic does not give answers. Are we such a safe country, Mr. Secretary of State, that a minister's driver can spy on the Home Secretary's e-mail? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141965	Thank you very much. You took your chance, let me, but it has nothing to do with this law, nothing to do with this law, please. Mr. Liposchack, come in. Please, I won't give you at all it's my opinion that it has nothing to do with this law, no. Here you go, Mr. Liposchack. And please, I'll give you good, I'll give you good, but the following reminders, you know that. Here you go. If they follow, if they follow. .../Speakers speak at the same time, do not understand./... Because it has nothing to do with this law, I don't know what you're going to say, but it has nothing to do with this law, the law I'm going to repeat for Mr. Ostojic I'm also going to repeat who knows for sure because he was the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Proposed Law on Private Protection. Here you go, Mr. Maras, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141966	Articles relating to session management 236 means articles relating to, you, Mr. Vice President, have nothing first to comment on whether something is in accordance with the law and my replica with it or not because it's not done by the chairman of the session. [[/Intruder: Not what article, what article?]] So I'm warning you, don't break the Rules of Procedure, people have the right to know if the Ministers are spying in Croatia. It's security, it has to do with the safety of the citizens, I beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141967	Time. I, as you well know because you are a veteran of such things, you know well that if something goes off topic, I have an obligation to warn rather than the right. Here you go, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141968	Dear Vice President, Article 236, who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, has been injured, the president gives his word as soon as he asks, so I have nothing else to say. I'm not talking about what the content is, you can't deny the right of an agent to address the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was my intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141969	Did I give my word to Mr. Ostojić or didn't I? ... Wait a minute, did I give it or didn't I give it? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141970	Honorable Vice President, I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, it's not, I'm just saying why. [[Well, then you had to give up when I gave it to him, right?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141971	Excuse me, let's move on, Mr. Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141972	I thank the Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State Katic for his co-workers. I welcome every legislative proposal that goes towards improvement, in the direction of improvement, and I believe that we are indeed doing so with this legislative proposal. In fact, you yourself mentioned that more than 30,000 currently unemployed in the labour market who have completed only primary school and this proposal enables them to enter the labour market in one way and in this branch, however, the fact remains that these jobs are extremely underpaid, that workers working on these jobs have extremely low incomes, and I also believe that they should also work to strengthen the inspection supervision of the employers themselves so that it does not happen as individuals and believe me, such situations on the ground, have a fund of hours and 300 hours a month, which cannot be shown to them in the legal frameworks or regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141973	Mr. Katic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141974	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Of course, salaries in security work are not the ones that would be desirable, but this law does not make it right. The working conditions of employees, as well as guards and security guards, should be monitored by the labour inspection of the Ministry of Labour, but the other assurances are also supervised by the inspection of the security activities of the MUP, they are therefore concerned with meeting the conditions laid down in this law which is now before you or the law which is currently in force, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141975	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141976	Thank you very much. Mr Katic, you mentioned security at the beginning of your presentation, you mentioned that Croatia is one of the EU's safest countries and that many foreigners often point out this when they come to Croatia. Now, my question is, in the Primorje-Goran County where I come from, we've been having frequent break-ins in family homes in the area, especially the Gorski Kotar and the hinterland of Rijeka, we're now promoting down there, say, tourism in our backyard, and we can't guarantee the safety of people who live there and that we wouldn't say that this has nothing to do with this law, has anything to do with this law, how does the MUP think we guarantee the safety of citizens? We had in Mrkoplje two days ago breaking into a house where people living there were present. Do they now have to take security guards from a security company to ensure their own safety that the state obviously cannot provide and who will pay them these costs and what do you do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141977	Mr. Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141978	These issues that you have mentioned to the esteemed representative, of course, concern these current migration pressures on the Republic of Croatia, which has been facing Croatia for a number of years, the modality and pressure areas have changed in recent months and years, and is now the highest pressure precisely on the territory of Karlovac, Ličko-senjska and Primorje-Gorski County, that I do not, of course, single out some other areas. This is where strengthened police forces, techniques, the most modern that we have, the MUP has invested a lot in technology as well as education and training of people, the problem exists, we are aware of it and we are solving it in the most appropriate way possible. And we're going to protect all the people who have problems with this, who live on those migrant routes. This area you mentioned is rarely populated and it makes it difficult for us to do our job but we are doing our best to give citizens a peaceful life and sleep, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141979	Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141980	Dear Secretary of State, I would only quote in Article 1 that this law lays down the lives and ways to carry out the activities of the business, the protection of persons and property not provided by the state above the scope provided by the State. So, this answer you said, I think that fellow Djujic was right when he said that they should hire security guards if you rarely can't protect and provide people's safety in populated areas? But what's my question, I'm replicating, is our guard here in the House, I'm interested in it, has a license, are they subject to this law or not, and by what law are they regulated to use the means of coercion in the Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141981	Here you go, Mr. Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141982	In any case, Mr. Representative, the state and primarily the Croatian police guarantee their citizens safety and seek to do everything to ensure it. I'm here in the opening and I said there's no absolute security, there's no crime, there shouldn't be any police. I remain that Croatia is a safe country and this kind of ecstasy that arises primarily in this migration crisis, the police solve in the most qualitative way possible with the use of both the best techniques and the best people they have. As far as the parliamentary guards are concerned, they do not have the licenses of the MUP in terms of the Private Protection Act and as far as I know, this issue is regulated by the internal regulations of the Croatian Parliament, certainly not by this private protection law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141983	Yes, but if you have information that the Assembly Guard is made up of private security people please say that because it interests me and not just others, if that's the case, but according to my information, it's not, but I'm allowing it. Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm interested in the information that you said many countries have an equal number of individuals in private protection with a number of police forces. We are now looking at data in Europe, the number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants moving from 132 police officers in Finland to more than 530 in countries, especially the former Yugoslavia, Macedonia, Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia. And now my question is when it comes to equating private protection with police officers, we come up with my notion of hypertrophy of security forces in a country that is thought to be safe and has a low risk of such events. My question to you is whether this figure justifies the security situation in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141985	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141986	Dear Mr. Representative, and when it comes to national security or primarily the police, one of its basic tasks is and defined in the laws is prevention, preventive action. So many who have bad intentions, criminal intentions when they see a police officer or know that the police can act quickly will be strained by criminal activity. Likewise with private security guards, security guards do their job primarily by acting preventively, so when a security guard stands in a particular location, it prevents a potential perpetrator of a criminal offence. So that question you said is complex, but the number of security guards is certainly related to security. This does not mean that much higher numbers would automatically guarantee greater security. But it is precisely because the regulations are such that they are doing such a threat assessment that they will allow the security guards to be used best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141987	Mrs. Chikotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141988	Dear Secretary of State, it is known that security guards work for low wages, work overtime, work in an unfavourable working atmosphere, and that they are often moved from object to object and that in fact the fund of hours that determines actually compensates for certain stimulation. From your response to public consultation you acknowledge the lack of labour and your solution is pensioners because young people leave security, do not want to work in such a working atmosphere. In MOST, working conditions are important to us, and we also care about the safety of citizens whether it is because it is connected together. I am interested in the fact that these amendments to the law go towards improving the quality of probably safety and working conditions, what is the average age of the security guard and how much has been carried out in the previous year of inspection and security firms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141989	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141990	Dear Madam MPs, of course that supervision of the work of security guards and security companies is very important and as I have answered one of the previous questions said this surveillance is carried out by labour inspectors as well as private protection inspectors. Our private security inspectors carry out about 3,000 supervisions annually, companies, plants, offices, banks and other debtors by applying these and other regulations. I would not be able to respond to the exact age structure and age of security guards and guards, however, as of January 1st, work and pensioners were made possible but, of course, under the condition that all other prescribed conditions were met by law. They will be able to work to maintain their pension and will be able to work for up to 4 hours a week. So, wages aren't what we'd like them to be, and they certainly should, they have to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141991	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141992	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State you stated in your statement that the law provided for it, i.e. temporary and occasional security operations are foreseen. So can you explain a little bit of what this refers to, how many days, how many times, in which case it's clear to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141994	Dear Mr. Representative, in practice, in economic and other activities, there is a need sometimes for foreign security guards but who must therefore have conditions to do jobs in our country as well. Therefore, if, of course, the company registers business creation, it can operate without restrictions, i.e. with the restrictions that exist in this law. But if these are temporary or occasional jobs they refer to, so they can work so that they work at most three days in a row and no more than four times in the course of the year, so that would be a maximum of 12 days. There is a need for a security guard to sometimes follow a certain person in whom he trusts, therefore, from another country. Or we had a familiar situation that I remember from 10 years ago when Faberge's eggs were exhibited in Dubrovnik, so very esteemed works of art. The exhibitors therefore sought and the owners of these precious items to have their own security guards and it was then allowed for them to monitor and guard the exhibition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141995	Mr. Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. One question, given that the aim and reasons for the adoption of this law are, above all, to raise the level of quality of private protection but also given the new National Security Strategy, which provides for the involvement of private entities and private security sectors in the home security system, we see here that we have practically a new army, so almost 16 and a half thousand registered security guards. I wonder in what way will their inclusion in the home security system be defined? So this opens up the space, whether or not special acts will be brought, and in which segments of the system, except, therefore, we see that it will have significant assistance and police in carrying out their activities, but in which other segments of the system, whether in the system of protection and rescue, civil protection, where we can use all of these security guards, practically Involving. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141997	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141998	Well, Mr. Representative, here is primarily thought that security guards will be used to protect critical infrastructures. Therefore, important economic and infrastructure facilities that are vital to the economy or the regular functioning of the state. So there is then a greater specialization of security guards, so continuous learning, education and, of course, a higher level of technical protection that is here, comes in itself with an increasing degree of development of technology and technology. Therefore, they will be able, as they guard airports, so that certain dams or public areas that are particularly sensitive, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u141999	And at the end of the day, Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142000	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm a little worried about this trend of reduction of qualifications, which we also had the other day in the Police Act where we reduced from a 4-year-old to a 3-year-old school, we're now introducing these guards and what we're doing. That's how we break the quality, lower the price. We said that we care about wages, and now we're introducing a new workforce which de facto will be less paid, and then we're going to go again somehow to the guards' hands and the level of their costs, as far as the salaries of workers are concerned, and of course, I think it's better to go in the direction, not to cut the criteria than to increase the education system, or the number of educated people, to invest in the education of those people who have only a primary school and then to get qualifications to do these jobs. Because that would also raise the quality, in the end line, these guards as one of the obligations, or the possibility of temporarily limiting freedom of movement, which is also not a small thing, and especially if they don't have the means of coercion, it's also questionable then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142001	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142002	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I don't think it's about destroying the quality of the guard's work, currently in the entire security structure there are 1700, so that's one smaller number than over 13 and a half thousand security guards and about 1300 security guards. They do less demanding jobs, but we are through the introduction of new categories, primarily security specialists, demanding that security guards specialize, to be educated and to be able to do these most complex jobs. There is always one part of the work that is less demanding and that can be done by people with less knowledge and competence, and for these people would be these guardian jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142003	Let's move on. No, first of all, would the representatives of the club like to take a word of it? The board is sorry. Now we're going to the clubs. Mr. Angelko Strick, will speak for the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142004	Dear colleagues and colleagues. According to us, the proposal for a law on private protection is in the first reading, which means that all interested people can still come forward and help make the law better and better. Protection activity in Croatia is experiencing its expansion in the mid-90s, and the first regulation regulating the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property, which was adopted in 1996. The law lays the basis for the current legal framework for private protection, which regulates the protection activity, the conditions for the establishment and establishment of companies and the pursuit of the protection of persons and property. Then, in 2003, the Private Protection Act, which is now valid, was introduced with provisions regarding then-accessible negotiations on Croatia's entry into the EU. Protection activities are not part of a service group but are part of a security economic branch dealing with the protection of citizens and their property, thus providing support and complementing the fundamental protection of the state. In the last 10 years, private protection has been imposed more and more as a significant security branch and the need for protection of persons and property, not only in the scope of private ownership, but also in the context of the general social, economic and other activities that take place in the public sector, e.g. the provision of airport security. Also recently, several rules have been adopted that recognise private protection as a need for addition, for example, the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions. For security to become a serious economic branch, we are told data on registration of 253 companies for physical and technical protection, 111 crafts of technical protection and 147 internal guards with a total of 16 447 persons with permission to perform private protection activities. Some 40,000 private security companies were engaged in Europe in comparison to data from the draft EU Parliament resolution on private security companies in over a million-and-a-half private contractors. That same year, the traffic of these companies amounted to around 35 billion euros. Furthermore, globally in 2016 The value of the private protection sector was estimated at $200 billion with approximately 100,000 private security companies and 3.5 million employees. The above data show how important this sector is and how important it is. National security strategy adopted in 2017 states that the home security system will include legal entities from the private protection sector. This represents an additional reason to modernise private protection and to raise the level of quality in the performance of security services. The fact that there is an increase in the share of private protection in providing security at important facilities with increased safety risk, e.g. airports, as prescribed by other EU countries, are becoming a sort of trend. For example, armed security guards are, in part, security activities in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Sweden and many other countries in which they operate in cooperation with the police or are responsible for the preventive inspection of luggage and persons when entering the aircraft. The strategy also states that continued training and training of employees in the private protection sector will be carried out, as well as the introduction of modern organisational models and technological achievements in all public authorities. The adoption of this law aims to: 1. increase the general security of society based on better development and economic activity due to a safer environment, 1st development of the security market, 1st increase the standard of persons performing security activities, 1st change the perception of private protection as activities of questionable quality, 1st create and develop a security culture in society and 1st establish a greater surveillance option by the MUP. This law regulates issues such as the harmonisation of business conditions for legal and physical entities in and outside the Republic of Croatia, by introducing these categories of persons i.e. Protector specialist and security guard of the IPU, designer of the assessment of the installation, which raises the level of quality. Positioning security activities as primary security activities, applying a risk assessment methodology, establishing a higher level of supervision of persons and activities by the ministry, cutting time and leaving permits, reducing the necessary level of qualification for guards, checking persons in the ownership and management structure of companies and crafts, which the Secretary of State explained in quality, so I do not think there is a need to repeat this, but I will therefore specify a few examples of how the security service is arranged in EU countries. In Austria private protection is not regulated by a special law concerning only this sector, but by general commercial law. The Law on Trade and Industry Regulation, which was adopted in 94. Potential employees in this sector must undergo training, training which is legally required to finance the company and carried out by the Ministry of Security and Employers' Associations. In the Czech private protection sector, it is part of general commercial law, there is no specific legislation. For the control and inspection of the private protection industry, the Ministry of Finance is responsible, and commercial courts exercise jurisdiction to impose sanctions. A potential security company employee must pass a criminal record check and a general security check, for which jurisdiction is shared by the Ministry of Justice and Police. In addition to the above, training financed by the company is mandatory. In Italy, private security was regulated by a consolidated act of the Public Security Act adopted in 1931 and amended in 2008, as is still in force today. The training of potential private protection workers is required under the law, financed by funds and regions or financed by companies. In Germany private security is regulated by a special law, the Private Insurance Companies Act, adopted in 2002. The Ministry of Trade shall be the national authority responsible for the construction and amendment of that law. Potential employees must undergo basic training conducted by the Chamber of Commerce and financed by a security guard personally or by a company. In Hungary private protection is regulated by a special law, and the body responsible for its implementation is the Ministry of Justice. The police, on the other hand, are in charge of controls and inspections, but also sanctions. According to the interior minister's orders, training is mandatory for all potential security guards, they finance it themselves, and after it's finished, they get a certificate of training. In Slovenia private security was regulated by the Private Security Act of 2003, the amendments followed in 2011 and as such is valid today and the Law on Detective Activity of 2003. The national authorities responsible for amending the amendments and making regulations in this sector are the MUP and the Chamber for Private Insurance Development in Slovenia. Also as far as training is concerned, it is legally mandatory, carried out by an authorised Institute for Security Training, financed by the company, and after the students have successfully completed, they receive a certificate of training. I therefore believe that this bill of law is good and quality, noting that this is the first debate, all interested people can still be involved in the debate and, of course, I note that the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142005	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Darinko Kosor's turn in front of the HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142006	Dear Vice-President HS, parliamentary deputies, state secretaries with associates, is an important topic concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I would like to point out a proposal to develop a judgment of the threat under the new bill. Article 3 of the Bill of Law proposes that a document called ‘hazard judgment’ should be drawn up before carrying out private protection activities protecting facilities or persons by technical or physical protection. So, this law provides for the introduction of a security guard to make a judgmental threat. I find it unnecessary to impose and you yourself Secretary of State said that we are in the first reading and that we still have time to fix the law. I'd like to compare it when you take credit, and then the bank or the savings company says, so an authorised architect has to come out to evaluate your real estate, and then the man comes in, 5 minutes into the apartment measuring the square, and it charges you 1,700 kuna. About this is something like this, it's about private protection, you want to put your cameras in your home, you have to do a judgmental threat, it's about some authorized security guard, and this is an additional imposition that goes in favor of those who would make it, and to the harm of those who would build on certain forms of protection. I suggest that such an imposition be considered and that, in the final proposal of the law, it be cast out as such. Secondly, in this proposal for a law, there is one very important sentence in my opinion, which is that the current Private Protection Act, it is prescribed that legal persons and craftsmen who are authorised to carry out private protection activities should not apply operational methods and means which, under specific rules, apply to the MUP. In translation, if this sentence did not appear in the new bill, and we insist that it emerges again, there is a possibility that some sublegal act would allow what is specifically prescribed as the activity of the MUP to be transferred to the guards. Take that you have property-legal relations and that you have two sides in these relationships and that each party can hire security guards. Take it so security guards can do the patrol work, which I can't do today, that you have private police on the road. All this is possible if we do not have in advance in the bill and the law that we will adopt in this Croatian Parliament clearly defined that security guards are not police and that they cannot carry out those activities that are specifically prescribed for the MUP only. If such a law were passed, without this sentence so far, if, by some sublegal act tomorrow, such authority were passed on, there would be chaos in the Republic of Croatia. And the third important point, in my opinion, is objects of special importance. The airports are already mentioned here, but they are also pipelines, hydrothermia and other facilities that even now security guards keep these facilities, it is not controversial, they store it everywhere in the world, but it believes that at this modern time when the ownership structure can be changed daily, when it can be carried out through various offshore funds and companies where you can't know in the right way, at least from the first hand who owns it, and the State Secretary himself has mentioned here that a wider check with members of the management to the owners, that special certificates are being introduced for such facilities of special importance that will be approved by certain public services, whether it is the Office of the National Security Council and will normally have a special assessment of the security agency. In my view, even less important are people who are in the administration, most of them professionals who do technical work, and I care about the owners. It may occur that some company has the right to examine luggage at the airport and that they own people who deal with crime. Connect each other and see how good business can be done. There is a possibility that through some of the ownership stakes of some terrorist organisation or countries organised in doing so, they can enter the ownership structure of certain companies, and that they are parallel owners of the protection companies that provide in Croatia oil pipelines, hydropower plants and other facilities of state importance. So, an additional certificate, an additional check for companies dealing with the protection of exactly these specific objects. These are our three proposals, on behalf of our club, we count on the representatives of the MUP to consider these proposals in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142007	Thank you. It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142008	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with their associates. Very briefly, at the beginning of what I said in the replica, I have a little problem with always this kind of thing because it's more like an increase and giving police authority to private companies. And then I always look back. Of course, that means, it doesn't mean you shouldn't, but I think it's a priority to regulate it very well and even better to specify exactly what are how, where powers. I mean, I have a feeling we're giving a little too much authority. What was first caught in my eye is a reduction in the level of qualifications required for the guardians in Article 19, so we stated that there are 30,365 unemployed in the labour market who have only primary school. What we do with it, except it's the urgency that by walking out of here actually allowing them to do security jobs they start a working relationship, we're here to crash quality and lower the labour price. And these same guards, they can practically do anything and they can replace a security specialist. I can do anything but coercion. And I'm now asking here, how many registered means of coercion have been coerced from protection until now or last year, or using whether firearms or any other means of coercion? Thousands and thousands of hours of work, I don't know how many cases there have been, and then we actually get into trouble. Those guards are gonna do the same thing. She's going to say, as far as we're saying we have now I've written down here, I mean otherwise we're talking about a big business where it's not a little bit followed by some bad guy and I'm not going to say it's like that, but an escape vote, that people are paid off and used up a lot. And we're still down the labour price with this, because we allow people with primary school to work, except for the use of funds... The idea is to go in the direction, let's say this law allows a scholarship, untaxable, so that in agreement with tax laws, but that in such a way that security companies scholarship, those who have only a primary school, end up with a certain degree of education, gain, qualifications, knowledge, that they can perform... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I think, the direction we should go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if we have to recognize this, I also understand why, but then the same thing can't happen, that of 6, and now I'm going to list exactly which, the powers, the persons who have been granted the authority, and that's the identity check of the person, the legitimacy, the guard with the primary school, can legitimateize, give warning orders, temporary restriction of freedom of movement, and now that's already a little questionable, the subject of the person concerned and the traffic means, insurance of the venues, and the sixth is the use of the means of coercion, it... It's the only thing I can't do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm wondering, how many situations and cases of use of the asset have forced protection to the ratio of the entire spectrum of doing business. And that's why I think it's, like I said and the police law we're reducing, so we have a sufficient number of cops when we're looking at those averages and we don't need to cut down, to get people who are going to work for less money, but we need to increase the wages to those we have and increase quality, and reduce... Number of people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're doing the opposite, and that might be one of the most important things to me. Also in the wording, when we talk about some restriction of freedom and of people and what should be, what should be particularly looked after, the perimeter, the extent that restricts the spacious within and around a protected facility public and other surfaces or with a protected person, within which the application of private protection is allowed, and then means the means of coercion, levers, anything else that, when someone does not give an order or will not legitimateize what they have the right. So someone, you don't want to give a security guard, you won't listen to him, he has the right to make funds over you. We saw what a storm was like when a police officer did it, over a lady who went over the red one. He did everything under the law, applied the means of coercion, to a person who refused to legitimize it and a lever made by a 70-year-old woman. Imagine it was a security guard. Di would have just finished, which means that perimeter, he gave it 100 meters, 20 meters is the rule, maybe it's, I don't know, so I'm asking, which is the assessment, who's giving that assessment, or that's what we have to do again, what Kosor said, doing a security assessment, which means a perimeter versus a protected person or a protected space. So I say once again, we are not against it, of course we should protect, especially whenever we question terrorism and terrorist threats, absolutely, but there is always that doubt, protecting privacy, the right to freedom of movement and interest and security, and it should always be well balanced. Furthermore, when we said... We mentioned that, a few more things that we certainly stuck to the eye, which I think should be considered until the second reading, is first of all, so when we talk about the means of coercion, that's where we put it in particular. 51. says special consideration for the use of a child, a person with disabilities or whose movements make it difficult for a person whose movements make it difficult, pregnant women in a visible state of pregnancy, and a person who is obviously ill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So again, we're not supposed to say no, but of course, I'm just saying as long as a security guard can act. And we here, if something happens tomorrow to some kid with... be an object, and God forbid something like that should happen, that a security guard would force him, who would judge whether it was enough or not, that's what we have to think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the official person is an official person and we here all have to trust these official persons, i.e. the police that needs to protect us and, above all, she is there. Furthermore, I'm not going into any too much detail now, so what I generally do, the items they find during the review, so I'm not sure that this part is in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, in which way the excluded items can be considered evidence and whether it's harmonised, since it is that, that this sedation, the acquisition of evidence, is kind of interrupted, because it's not obtained from an official person. Is that in line, therefore, it's a purely legal question, would it not prove in court that this, that a security guard took someone, that he now had a problem with his word against, that we view them as an authorised official in court, etc. etc. And it also writes here again, says the guardian may, in the case of Article 50 of this article, in the case of items 1 of this article, the person for whom he considers to be able to give notice is important in clarifying the events, request that he not leave the scene until the police arrive, and if the person does not act in accordance with the request, the guard will immediately inform the security guard etc. What's going on here? The guard who's the same with the elementary school estimates maybe that someone saw something at some mall when he's walking with the kids and now he's stopping him and except he can legitimize him and thus get the knowledge and say I think that this man saw, he can't then order that person to be detained. And you're walking now, someone's running out of the store and you're trapped there, an hour, two three, or maybe someone thought he saw it or didn't. That little bit okay, according to... the perpetrators of loners, etc. but you as a potential witness, who may or may not have seen, because someone thinks I am something, and you say I'm not, he's keeping you there, against your will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we give him the right to do it. Or, not him, he can't use the means of coercion but he can call another security guard who will then apply the means of coercion to you, as a potential witness, and you say I don't know anything, I didn't watch anything, and he says that I think you are, is that I am, I know. So to me, if that's already the case, that would be quite enough, so I say there are cases of opposites, but we can't, we can't leave these things to the judgment of the people we're lowering qualifications to do so. Here, that's the main question actually. If something is not clear in the law, who assesses whether one is a suspect or a potential witness, and may not, he must know exactly what he must or shouldn't not, and not be left with an estimate of whether someone is a potential suspect or a potential witness and then perform some means of coercion and certain things that we have here, and we have broadly given the law. And I'm actually going back to that first part that's to me, and that's me on the board right now and the mention and I've detected this because I asked if these people can carry guns, and that's where you clearly said in the opening statement that I can't and that's, of course, good. But I can do anything else. And when we look at the average number of hours of protected persons, objects, working hours of people who deal with it, thousands and thousands, and how much use of funds we have, so it's in shifts and we practically come to the fact that the guard is doing everything that everyone else does except that he can, of course somewhere he can't be employed because he's literally looking for it, and in law, he has to be with guns, etc., so one part of the law is already excluded which is okay. But I think that here we need to make a little bit of that guard regulation absolutely and go to this part better to get security companies to scholarship and educate people and give them bigger salaries, not to tear down the qualification by opening up the space to go even less money to make people work. The only thing I do not understand is Article 11 which says for the purpose of promoting and marking security activities is that security is established on the day of St. Matthew, is it necessary to have this in law, I mean, I didn't face it honestly now that we here at the assembly are having a law on the day of security. We have a lot of other professions, a lot of other Czechs where we didn't pass this law by saying when they celebrated their day, I don't know why they would be doing it here right now. People if they have their own glory, I don't know why we have to bring it to them in the assembly when it's their day and what it opens up with. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142009	Now, Mr. Ranko Ostojić, who will speak for the SDP's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142010	... MPs and MPs, respected secretary of state with associates, I have listened carefully to your opening speech on security, as graciously as you know it, but one thing should be warned, this is a very important law. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The state has a legal monopoly of physical coercion. And that is something that, unless it is regulated by law, of course, you come against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because no one has the right to take away any freedom or use the means of coercion not to commit a criminal offence unless it is regulated by law. That's why I asked you a question about the parliamentary guard, but I'm going to do it a little later because I think that the obligation to apply everything that goes above or with the police and to apply powers that are similar to police powers must be regulated among other things, may be a good opportunity in this particular law. You can't answer that the internal act has been resolved because I'm surprised that you as a secretary of state don't know that in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia it is said that the confiscation of freedom, the temporary restriction of freedom, the application of the means of coercion can only be regulated by law. In no other way. This would mean similarly to be said that internal acts regulate the examination of passengers at the airport or that they apply the powers at the airport, that is not possible, precisely why such a law is being passed. As regards the private protection law itself, those legal persons and craftsmen who wish to protect and their property above the protection provided by the State or above the scope provided by the State must, for that purpose, engage a legal person or craftsman who is authorised to carry out the activities of this private protection or to establish his own internal protection service. Now, this is regulated in this law, and I think you understand me better now why I'm saying that our situation in this building needs to be regulated in the same way. Because the guard is a person who performs the tasks of physical protection of persons and property with limited application of powers under this law. Also, when we talk about allowing a solution that allows a natural person who fulfils the prescribed conditions to carry out private protection tasks. If someone does it without permission, it means they're doing illegal work. Private protection business, these are activities carried out by a natural person under the private protection activity on the basis of the Ministry's permission, if you did not allow someone to do so, then it cannot be called a security guard. The internal protection service, the internal establishment unit which a particular legal person or craftsman is forming in order to protect his facilities, premises and persons must also be authorised to make exclusive judgments on the threat of protected facilities and premises, and the specialist security guard is the person who performs the tasks of physical protection of persons and property by applying the powers with a higher level of competence prescribed by this law. A higher level of training is necessary in the use of means of coercion and protection of persons, facilities and high-risk space. This is all an introduction to the part that I finally think is very important that it is amazing for me in the Croatian Parliament, the law-making institution, to first listen to the secretary of state who does not know the Constitution of the Republic, and then thinks that an internal act can be regulated to use the means of coercion. The means of coercion aren't just weapons, sprayers or foxes, it's also physical strength, therefore and how important it is to get rid of it, maybe this is the opportunity right through this law. I would also like to point out in Article 4 that private protection workers can perform legal persons and craftsmen and internal protection services that have the approval of the Ministry for the performance of these tasks. I understand from your answer that our approvals do not exist. The legal person or craftsman shall be obliged to compensate for any damage committed by their employees in the conduct of private protection activities, by the contracting party or by third parties, if any damage has occurred due to the conduct which is contrary to the provision of this law. So if, for example, Mr Furio Radin, the vice president of HS asked the guards to take me out and that something should happen, then I have the right to cash compensation and damage because they are absolutely not regulated by law, and the conditions for the conduct of private protection matters, given that we are regulating this now, must have, above all, the approval to establish an internal protection service and that if they meet the conditions laid down in Article. 12 written in points 1-7. The ministry will also ban the work of a legal person, a craftsman and an internal protection service until it meets the prescribed requirements. So I think it would be very important for us to figure it out, maybe the incidents started happening here just recently, but the truth is next, and that's that all these jobs that are going on aren't regulated by the legal process. That's what the article means. 21st written that there are at least 2 years of work experience on security tasks, that there is a verified training for a security specialist, in accordance with the rules and that has passed a professional examination by a security specialist. Therefore, we could come in a little inspection to see if we have or do not have any body protection, only security specialists can do physical protection of objects and businesses of interest to the Republic of Croatia. That's what it says in art. 35. Therefore, I would ask you to take a look at the Constitution, Art. 16-22 so you will be able to see there why I am telling you this, that the MUP should solve the issue either through this law, and at this point you have the right to examine it and see us in this institution called the Croatian Parliament and I suppose it is clear to everyone that it is a space of interest for the Republic of Croatia. I hope that's the way it is. Powers to perform physical protection tasks, in accordance with Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, 45, it is precisely written, a check of the identity of persons, giving warnings and orders, temporary restriction of freedom of movement, review of persons and objects and means of transport, insurance of venues and use of means of coercion. If someone is not clear that there is a situation here if such provisions are written in this law, they must refer to anyone who even thinks that if this practice can be without a license, without permission, without a solution can be the person who can apply it. If such a precedent were to be introduced, then we could settle it in a way that everyone starts to act as a security guard, starts to apply these powers, and calls for when the legislator, or the one guarding the rule of law, among other things does not regulate himself in his own house, how can he ask others to be very precisely regulated by their actions. Among other things, Art. 47th, maintaining order and peace and establishing a disturbance of order and peace in a protected facility and space. I hope this is our Croatian Parliament. As for which this would happen, passive resistance, failure to act upon warning or order or position in such a position as to prevent the execution of the work of physical protection. It literally says in the law, a person lays down, kneels, grasps another person or object. It's about that scene we can watch here in HS, it says in this law, but it doesn't apply to us, we'll regulate it by internal act. It's all good until there's an accident, and then you'll be responsible. Because you are in charge of following and not letting anyone use coercion or act without being able to do so. With regard to verifying the legality of the application of the powers of persons performing the tasks of physical protection, the internal service, and even if what you say is true, this is that an internal act has been settled, it would be required within 3 days of the application to submit a written report to the police administration. Of course not. No one has informed you of any use or means of coercion that occurred here. Otherwise, this report must be drawn up with the location, time, full description of the course of events, the identification of the participants of the event, the description of the facts, the information on the eyewitnesses and the information for the other data and information. That's what I'm saying together for the reason that ours, that's what I'm saying. 87 are working in... Security guards and security specialists shall be obliged to show their identity to the person over whom they apply their powers prior to the use of the powers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It must be clearly visible, and when you had public consultation, then you had 131 remarks by various associations, companies, security guards, etc., of course most of them were not accepted, but when one law has so many objections, then it is perfectly clear that there are certain doubts that should be regulated, I hope through this debate. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 16 We have said, freedom and right can only be limited by law to protect other people's freedoms and rights and legal order, public morality and health. Any restriction on freedom and right must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each individual case and Article. The 22nd man's freedom and personality is invulnerable. That even applies to parliamentary representatives. No one must be deprived or restricted of their freedom, except when determined by law, what is the court's decision. Therefore, do not tell me that this is resolved by an internal act. I, of course, asked the President of the Parliament to do this job seriously, which regulated the issue of handling parliamentary representatives or MPs, responsible that this was "resolved to the Rules of Procedure and to the decision on the professional service of the Croatian Parliament and that the guards were carrying out the tasks of monitoring the departure of persons, goods and vehicles and the affairs of maintaining order and peace at Parliament facilities as well as other tasks of importance for the security of persons and property in those facilities". I quoted this from a memo that came to me from Mr. Jandrokovic. Following this, the conduct of the Croatian Guard in implementing the strict measures taken by the deputies at the request of the Chair shall be carried out in accordance with the provision of Article 241. The Rules of Procedure, which shall be referred to as a legislator, which shall not be removed from the session, and which shall continue to be written in which way it may be resolved and, if the representative is not removed from the session, not after not giving the distance measure referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the Chair shall order that the representative be removed from the session, in which case the Chair may request the Parliament's guard to remove the representative from the Chamber. It is clearly written what should be done and an eclectic example clearly written what should be done and an eclectic example of the violation of the law in the Croatian Parliament, which is the legislator. I must remind myself now, most surprising, that we are calling for history or that, historically, by looking at the Croatian Parliament's 2000 Rules of Procedure, the Croatian Parliament's guard, for the first time, has been empowered to, at the request of the chairman to carry out a strict measure of distance from the session, the same distance from the hall, which the norm thereafter remained unchanged until today. This is, of course, a political response in which it is clear and wants me to be reminded that in 2000, the President of the Croatian Parliament was Zlatko Tomčić, Mr Mato Arlović was the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which was the path of adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, obviously did not find the reasons for further norming how to implement the strict measure of the distance of MPs from the session, so it can be concluded that there was no doubt about the legal enforcement of the strict measure of the distance of the representatives from the Chamber. And he also wrote to me nicely that if I think that after 19 years of insisting on this unchanged norm, it needs to be further standardized, please make an appropriate proposal in this regard. And of course, the interest of respecting the Rules of Procedure as a special law in the first place is to me as a special law, and to be careful, this really surprised me, in which the Rules of Procedure has been declared as a special law governing the way of work of the Croatian Parliament, should be taken into account so as not to harm the rule of law as one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. And... I swear by my honor that I will be held accountable and conscientious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course I wasn't saying this for no reason, I must say that of course this is not true for a reason here, I will be free, so in writing to the Croatian Parliament [[Intruder Radin: Time, Mr. Ostojić.]] paper, proposal of the Croatian Guard Act. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] So much for that, and later on, if you tell me the time is up, Then I'll speak power, thank you. [[Third time, Mr. Ostojić's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142011	Thank you. I thank you for your response, and I confess that it encourages certain thinking, I must answer your question, give me that freedom. I agree with you that the questions can be asked although here next year will be the 20th anniversary of the possibility of asking that question as you said, I may have been before, although it was different. What is important, however, is that if you forgot the other side, which is perhaps why I would probably, even support you in that, you would have a special permit or special training of our own, members of our guard. The opposite side you've forgotten is that so far the only threats that have been made in this House have been made to them. And you as a man who's been at the head of a repressively repressive home office machine for a long time, you should be on the side of these poorly-paid watchmen I repeat, the only ones who've experienced threats so far and you know it well that one night there's been heavy words coming down here. Here, just give me the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142012	Dear Vice President, Article 232 has been injured because the speaker can only be talked about on the subject under discussion. I know I can't replicate to you as chairman, but it would be good for you as chairman to give yourself a heads-up about what you're commenting on the performance of a club of MPs you don't have the right to replicate, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142013	Since you answered one of my questions, I asked him. I asked you to give me that freedom, so a little tolerance should come into question, I'm sorry. Maybe you're not happy with the answer, please, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to admit, here's the second time I've warned you about it, 232 Yeah, so you do that a lot, you comment, you throw, you make remarks, you write a little bit more and then you write a little bit more about how we need a pay phone bill. [[/Intruder Radin: 232?]] So on this side I ask you to stop doing it, we have the right to our views, people have elected us to the Croatian Parliament to express their views as well. And it has nothing to do with you. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]] I know the weather is inexorable, and you know it. [[Mr. Maras, weather.]] For what? [[Intruder Radin: For the sake of time I give you a warning.]] So now Ranko just spoke 25 seconds over and you haven't given anyone a warning. [[Intruder Radin: First warning, due to the time you've broken 12 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142015	You spoke 12 seconds more than you needed and you have the right to your opinion, let's move on. Mr. Sasa Djujic, now, do we have any more... Bunjac, here you go, Mr. Bunjac, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142016	Thank you very much, Article 238, so Mr. Chairman, if you would like to comment on the session, please be sure to sign up for the debate, you'll still be there. Bring the application, give Mr. Bukarica, and discuss it. And the other thing, please explain, when you're answering for your word, what does the Samobor Guard have to do in the temple of democracy and freedom of speech? What does she have to do here anyway? Here's a question that you could answer nicely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142017	I understand that you are not satisfied with my answer, here you are, the violation of the Rules of Procedure which article. ... Are you looking for a break? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142018	That I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Advocacy Club, the independent representatives on the point we're just discussing, and at that time, I think it can serve us all well and cool our heads a little bit and continue our discussion in a better way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142019	Pray to Stanku, yes, for counseling, please. Anybody else want a break? I have to, I have to, please, you've had a little more time, so explain with this point, please. Here you go. If there was, he was shorter than he had time, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142020	I'm sorry. I have to explain. So, the Independent Representatives' Club is looking for a break to consult each other on this point we're just discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142021	It has to do with this point, at 11:15 p.m., keep up with the camel and move on. Okay, excuse me, Mr. Maras, you want to sit down, go, go for coffee, wherever you want, but not here. I want to welcome here it is my fault that I had to deal with other things, students and students of Vice Vlatkovic's Professional School from Zadar, who are here with us, thank you for being with us and this... I don't know if you've learned anything, but draw more of your conclusions and that's some learning. [[Applause.]] Thank you. It's 11:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Katic, colleagues and colleagues. So I want to take advantage of this debate because today's taste of this debate is security and that we are talking all day about the security of our citizens and we are proud to point out that Croatia is among the safest countries in the EU, at least it was a couple of years ago and that even the foreigners envy us for that security. However, over the past few years, there has been a phenomenon that is now progressing more and more, taking more swings than the previous year, and this is about the migrant crisis. And why do I want to talk about it today? Because I come from the Primorje-Gorski County in which this problem now takes serious proportions and I speak here on behalf of the mayor and mayor of my county who have appealed to us from the Primorje-Gorski County to draw attention to this problem at a higher level. So lately, more and more frequent migrant incursions are in the facilities. So 5 days ago in Bego's distance which is not one uninhabited place but is where people live was breaking into 5 houses by migrants and in one of those houses at the moment of migrant burglary in that house there was an older couple of 90 years old. The traumatic testimony that these people are bearing and I want to draw attention to this problem because it's obvious that the system has failed and that it's not working. So it's about the backdrop of the New Vinodolski, the Vinodol Municipality, the Municipality of Chavle, the Municipality of Jelenje, the Chief of Jelnja is right when signing the cyclotourism agreement that we are promoting pointed to the problem. So that day we signed a project in the Primorje-Gorski County that should bring tourists to the back of Rijeka. So these are municipalities of 5, 10 minutes from the sea, 10 minutes from the center of Rijeka. And we signed a project in which we run, run, direct tourists into the area and only the day before that signing was 5 burglaries in the Jelenje municipality in the facilities where people live. And it is now evident that people in this area do not have personal security, let alone that we have some security for tourists or people who come to visit us. Now what's the connection to this law? So, as I said in the replica whether people in that area are now condemned to take, I don't know any security companies to protect their property. And it's all going more that way, so it's not just a threat to property, and that's where we come into life. Who guarantees not to give up God will not happen to any evil. Do the people who live there whether or not the migrants themselves. In the back of Novi Vinodolski 2, 3 months ago, they set fire to the property of the Croatian forests because they burned mattresses there to keep them warm because it was snowy. There was a huge fire, it was all planned, the police came, they found 30 migrants on the spot, which was surrounded. Fortunately, no one died, the building burned down. So it's obvious that the system doesn't work unlike in 2015, so the migrant crisis didn't start yesterday. You told me the Secretary of State that you were aware of it and that we are now under pressure from that migrant route. But we can't, our citizens' safety depends on weather opportunities and weather forecasts. So that's the theory that's being presented. Now it's summer, so the pressure will drop because they won't be, they won't have to break into buildings, they're breaking in in winter. So when the snow is to the citizens' safety is compromised, when the sun is not. So in 2015, we had the same migrant crisis but we had one responsible government that knew how to deal with this crisis. So that's when you knew about migrants only in the media, the citizens didn't meet them. Give me statistics on how many break-ins there have been by migrants in the citizens' facilities in 2015, how many are they today. In 2015, when surrounding countries raised wire around Croatia. So the impermeability was from Croatia to the next. But the government found one solution, there everyone remembers here is our Minister Ostojić, who was alone on the spot every day with these people, so in one humane way, this problem was solved. And these people are in trouble, too, but this problem is now going to this extent that the safety of our citizens is at stake but not only the safety of material, life, but also the economy. So if we have people in the forests of Gorski Kotar baulja, I will say, in the hinterland of Rijeka, Viskovo, Klani, Kastav, Jelenje, you can meet common people who then threaten there and the inhabitants and others then tourism from which this county is the primary economic branch because now the Government and the Ministry of the Interior can't seem to find an answer to these questions. So here I'd like to hear from you a proposal, not what we're doing everything we can best, take all the measures, take all the steps. How it's going to shrink, how to answer that question, do we, we've heard from the police station chief in the area that people and I believe are missing and without that crisis in police stations. With that crisis, that pressure is even higher. Is there anything you can do about protecting yourself there and stopping that threat because now it's taking serious proportions, someone gets hurt, someone gets hurt and it doesn't end well. And I don't know, here I would like to hear the answer and the mayors and the mayors in our area have told them themselves to suggest how they can help, what they can do to make it better and better. And the question I would like to hear is that in 2015, the citizens of Croatia did not meet migrants in Croatian forests, the streets of cities, they did not break into their homes and how does this happen today? As it happens four years after that, here I would like to hear the answer to that question. But what is crucial is whether the solution may also be in this law, to strengthen security guards in these areas but who will then pay these security guards because they cannot be expected to hire services or security companies for the sake of personal privacy and security because the state cannot provide them with what the Constitution requires, which is personal security, inviolability at home and the possibility of normal life. Here are the things I wanted to talk about, so I used this debate to draw attention to this problem that is still being mentioned in the media, here and there when it's just like in Bego's division five days ago, breaking into five objects, and the worst thing that people have been in one object is I repeat it once more, and then there's migrants stealing their goods, stealing their food, etc., and now they're talking about it, but five days after that, there's silence. That day, all the media were up in Bego's distance, one small mountainous place and now it's quiet again, so there's no story about it, it doesn't point to the problem, and the problem is still growing. So we're gonna wait for a re-escalation of the problem, or can we do something to get rid of it? Here I am at the appeal of the residents of Gorski Kotar and the rest of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, wanting to talk about this problem in this House and to draw attention to these problems and I hope that you will also give me answers to these questions but that the police will be a little more actively involved in solving these problems and guaranteeing the safety of our citizens living in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142024	The first line has Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142025	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you have touched on a problem that may not be burdening much of the Croatian public at the moment, but is very burdening our citizens in your county, especially in some of the places you listed in Gorski Kotar and the question is just why there are these problems and why the police do not remove these problems. We see that one party boasts on the jumbo posters with a large number of border police officers, i.e. in a way that the situation is very safe and the question arises why we do not see in that part of Croatia what they write on our pre-election posters. So on that side, I absolutely understand the concerns of the people in Gorski Kotar but I don't understand why the police can't find more effective answers to these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142026	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142027	So this, colleague Maras, is what I've been saying that's been going on the last two, three years 2015 we've also had a migrant crisis and there hasn't been any of these problems, so what's the difference in the police that was working and doing 2015 and what's the difference today? Police officers are the same, employees are the same, they've only changed by handling personnel, so I don't think only of the minister and the police department, but I think of police chiefs of staff who should also be making some kind of appeal to the ministry to help them or give them some kind of solution to make it easier for them to work, and we're like, in the Primorje-Gorski County, we had a situation where our chief there told the mayors and mayors that they don't have enough people and how they do everything they can, how they've been sub-cated and like that, that's how it is. That's how we do everything we can and deal with it and that's it. It can't be like that, but you have to find a solution to that problem that's getting more and more waved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142028	Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142029	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, I agree with you that citizens do not feel more secure in these border areas and you rightly wonder if they should hire private security guards and you asked who will pay for it. So I would point out that even now companies that employ young people in security companies, mostly people hire for a certain time, for a minimum wage or a small salary, and I hope that this law will change it and better regulate this area that young people who are forced to do these security jobs have adequate personal income, and I also agree with you that people living in border areas don't feel safe and it's not just in the Gorski Kotar and Dalmatian hinterland, but in Slavonia, especially in Posavina, and here you have recently had a situation that a hunter shot a migrant who was hiding in the bushes, simply people don't feel safe here anymore, expect more government to take action on this and not to hide that information than to get a real picture of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142030	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142031	That's right, fellow, it's a problem all over Croatia, so I come from my county and I pointed it out because, let's say, it's a problem in Lika-Senjska, in Karlovska, it's also the assistant minister pointed out and in Slavonia, in all the border areas just again, I'm now appealing in this way in front of my county because, we had a situation that in the center of Rijeka, in Adamic's street in front of the store police intercepted 5 migrants who took a taxi and took a taxi to drive them to the border crossing with Slovenia. So we're not talking about forests and poorly populated areas now, but in the center of Rijeka, six migrants took a taxi and accidentally took them there, so the question is, that's what security is, so now it's taken the wave of the abnormal if I can say so, and that's what citizens expect from this government to find answers to these questions and to these problems, not just at the border with BiH or Serbia, they say we found so many of them and we brought them back, what about this, how do they get to Rijeka? That's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142032	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djujic, you have rightly opened on this subject a subject that is not directly related to the law that is under discussion, why, because obviously, the situation which is not good with migrants or immigrants is being escalated and that the government either does not want to deal with or is not able to deal with the new situation, here are the events that happen in Gorski Kotar, in our county and where we already have announcements that people will organise themselves, which I certainly think should be prevented, that people are self-organizing to defend themselves, or to protect their property because obviously these incidents are common, that these incidents and chaotic, leave chaos behind and that something should happen that should not Given that at this point, we actually have a relatively small number of these people compared to the situation that we had much better control of a few years ago when we were in power. [[Intruder:]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142034	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142035	That's exactly how colleagues Turina-Đurić are because we have shown that this can be controlled. That's why I'm asking this government to keep things under control, and of course the citizens, here, so that's that article in the New List that was on RTL where people said, what we're doing now, this man who got into it, that's a 90-year-old man who got into the house asked a cop, and what if I killed him. And he told him so they wouldn't kill him. And I guess he wouldn't, maybe, but look, he can't bring the police in at all, he can't let the situation get to someone's death. So people don't feel safe anymore and that's why I'm talking, I'm appealing right now, and I want us to focus seriously on this problem and find some solutions until there's been some major damage until someone's head has fallen. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142036	And finally, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142037	Dear fellow Djujic, although it is not a topic, something else is being discussed today, it is good that you have opened this issue. Migrants cross Croatian borders every day as through Swiss cheese. This government does not want to talk about it, people feel insecure, do not experience Croatia as a state. There are thousands of Croatian police officers at the border who apparently have an oral order to let go, to see but not to act. The citizens are on their own. You say they're trying to limit themselves, all that says is that the state and this government are running away from the problem. This is invisible. This wasn't 2015, and it will be 2019, this will last. Don't run away from this problem. We from the party Change Croatia ask you, if you stop at the borders, no one enters without documents, you know what the humanitarian problem is, which is economic, and we don't know what's coming. Stop those who shouldn't be coming. Let them drive trains, aircraft, with prior authorisation [[Intruder: Mr. Lovrinović's time, time.]] Not through the cornfields and the woods. [[I was wrong. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142038	Time. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142039	Well, I don't know if my colleague Lovrinovic has a warrant to let anyone go, I don't believe in it personally, so I don't believe in that part of the story and that people who are at the border don't do their job, I don't believe it either. But it is evident that we have a problem and it is evident that we are in the back, again I will say, cities like Rijeka, in the center we find migrants. And as they got there and gave someone the answer, if any police chiefs might have been removed if they kept breaking into their area, means it doesn't work there and they don't do it well, so that's the same question. Or we're all in that style, look, it's like, now there's gonna be summer, we're gonna go a little bit, we're gonna drop that blow, and we're gonna wait, and it's gonna go winter, so we're gonna hope there's no snow, there's not gonna be cold, so maybe they just pass. So the problem is there, the problem needs to be talked about and a solution to the problem needs to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142040	Let's move on with the individual debate. Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We are talking about this law, but it is almost impossible to cover both some aspects or problems related to security, with, I would say, and those that operate on the protection market of objects and persons and what I wanted to point out is that the issue of security in the Republic of Croatia is, I would say incredibly that in the 21st century our fellow citizens do not feel secure, especially when we talk about recent events related to certain things that affect the most government officials. So it's amazing that we live in the country, so there are only two possibilities. One option is either the government doesn't give us accurate information and the police or we live in a country that doesn't have developed democratic standards. What am I talking about? I am talking about the fact that at this point in Croatia there are huge affairs that are not being addressed by the HDZ and the MUP, which are not being answered by the MUP. So we have an accusation that the driver, the clerk, the deputy, or however in one ministry, has been spying on the encouragement of certain colleagues from the HDZ Minister of Interior through former employees of the Ministry of Interior who have certain knowledge, access to probably data and opportunities to do so. Look, it's an accusation that the Home Secretary is being spied on. And how can there be no answer to that question for a few days? Two conclusions are made for me. Or someone is manipulating the data and doing an affair to make internal conflicts burst in HDZ or really standards that we once had a few years ago, we don't have in the Republic of Croatia anymore. We didn't get an answer from the M.O.P.'s representative here. Then how can our citizens feel safe? Whether they will have to secure certain things themselves, i.e. virtual security of their e-mail accounts or certain other things they use in their daily lives. When the Minister of the Interior hacks him, a deputy who drives another fellow minister, or he gives a warrant, and then he gets hacked by someone, a third on his behalf, who drives another fellow minister. It may seem relatively banal to someone, but for me, it's a couple of excellencies topics, and it's almost amazing that we don't have any reaction or we get any information from those who run our country. Mr. Plenkovic easily answers these questions, as if it were his de facto concern, as if he had nothing to do with it and these answers to the type we want to shed light on it as soon as they can't satisfy anyone in the Republic of Croatia. The elemental uncertainty of our people due to such information or lack of security because of such information is in place. The other thing, when we look at security guards or their companies, we can see one phenomenon that marked the sector, which is extremely high profits for certain companies and extremely low salaries for people who work in these companies, security guards who guard facilities and persons. Why is that? Because it's relatively easy to get a qualification to do this job, because people unfortunately don't have a job of quality paid and they have to do these jobs, because here from New Year's, it's possible to engage in 4 hours and pensioners to do a certain job, and pensions in the Republic are incredibly or incredibly small, unlike some HDZ colleagues, I think they're embarrassingly small in RH pensions, and that we just have to talk about it here where that space opens up for even bigger security companies because now they're going to hire pensioners for 4 hours, which are even cheaper for them than to hire someone for 8 hours on normal working hours. And de facto, we have companies of the same ones who, a few years ago, have been destroying our country, drilling about their breasts, fighting for some goals, de facto funding our country's uncertainty, and from security, or from this dam, they earn 10 million kunas every year. And then you wonder why that is? Is it possible that this brand is deliberately stimulated and deliberately made possible to employ people for relatively small money so that these owners earn tens and tens of millions of kunas? There's not a single business in the Republic of Croatia, which is a paradox, it's really a paradox that telecoms, banks have less profits than some security companies. Man makes I don't know 40, 50 million kuna, and he's got 10 million kunas of net net profit. Well, I mean, it's nowhere in any business. And I would like to say that if I were a minister and I was dealing with this and I looked at what it's all about, the only problem is that they're party colleagues, so it's probably hard for you to help out from 4, 5 years ago when we had gas bottles here in the center of the city of Zagreb, they can hardly be asked about something. They have been left with a market to earn such incredibly large amounts, and not only that, but it also allows them to take over objects with and in the tourism industry, meaning concessions are given to them on large surfaces to further expand this business and perhaps have the opportunity to help HDZ in the future even more than they have done so so far. They're all fine now, everyone's great, everyone's happy when another government comes then they engage and use the resources that HDZ has made possible for them to do instability and uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia. So these are the two topics I want to talk about. Otherwise, what I've also noticed is amazing what level of censorship HRT is at right now. So in this transmission now that people are looking at us at home on probably four on the canal, I noticed that every time I'm talking here, I'm watching live right now on my cell phone, I'm being shot here, I'm just touching the bottom of your television screens. So, it bothers HRT to see this, so imagine it bothers them, I want to see it, I don't know if you're going to be able to get me out of the picture now, so the Croats aren't EU citizens of the second row, so that bothers HRT that our viewers at home see it. And to see basically what level of censorship actually works for HRT when it's looking at how to help candidates for the European Parliament from HDZ who are awake, here I am in second frame, this camera is filming me, it's amazing how effective they are, how efficient they are, how efficient they are. I can't turn it around because it's from a long shot. [[Aggression: Turn it around, turn around.]] I just want to tell you that it's a shame, that's a shame. So, these simple political messages that I'm fighting for as a representative, so I can't pass it on to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because there's a political administration at the head of Bačić, with editors who try not to go outside, and let's say the information won't pass on that there's no Sokola and the Sun Glavak who are going around the field and taking part in the campaign. So that's the problem with the Republic of Croatia, which is why I'm in favour of, of course, it doesn't have much to do with this subject right now, but I have to say, I'm trying to get rid of the TV subscription, and here I hope you didn't turn off the sound while I was saying it. Once again, I'm in favour of abolishing the TV subscription because we have censorship, here's the camera again, and we can't look at this right now in the Croatian Parliament. Here, that's something I wanted to warn you about at the end of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142042	Thank you. If that helps you, I agree with you that the Croats are not EU citizens of the second order. And now you've got three replicas, ma'am. I'm after Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142043	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your colleague Maras here called the representatives of the ministry, i.e. the entire interior ministry, because it is not apparent about the spying on Minister Bozinovic as you said, first of all, to talk about alleged spying, and the Ministry of the Interior has been finely manifested and made a statement saying that they are not able to bring dynamics and tactics to the public, as well as details of the criminal research itself, as well as details of the persons involved. And now that I'm not reading everything, I'm saying, so the police have reported all the information and evidence to the competent state attorney's office and criminal charges against concrete persons have been filed. Therefore, the ministry was obvious, you can read it nicely on their pages. The State Secretary can't talk about the correct case and the ongoing procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142044	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142045	So, ma'am, that's exactly the problem. The problem is that it is possible in today's Croatia and therefore the citizens feel insecure, to spy on the interior minister, because of the party accounts in HDZ, scandalous, incredible. HDZ brought us back, not 10, not 20, but 30 years ago. It is a shame that today in Croatia there is the possibility that anyone is being spyed on, it turns out that citizens really are the Republic of the second order, they really are the second order. It turns out that Croatian citizens do not have the essential security of a decent, normal life, as everyone else in the EU has, and that is what I am warning you and that is what the HDZ unfortunately gave us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142046	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142047	Thank you very much, therefore, my colleague Maras on this, your already famous cult laptop, which symbolizes resistance to censorship and this government, writes Croats are not EU citizens of second order and it writes wrongly. So, there should be writing, the Croats should not be EU citizens of the second order, which, unfortunately, they are today, because here, during this debate, I have just heard from the residents of Delnik and Gorski Kotar, who say that they are citizens of the second order and that because of this migrant crisis that we are talking about in the second row and that they are threatened and people are outside themselves and they are desperate. And they even call for self-organization and that's exactly what we've been saying, and it's ruling, instead of having censorship, spy affairs and so on, we should be dealing with the security of our citizens, and we should help, that all citizens in Croatia, not be second-class citizens and that this message of yours from the laptop, finally become a reality, not just a mere desire or fiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142048	Thank you. Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142049	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic, but what is no shame, that in Croatia, 2019. we have a situation where state television affects how messages are transmitted from the Croatian Parliament. What bothers them is that I wrote on the laptop. So Mr. Bačić, a gentleman who was appointed there by HDZ as director-in-chief in order to eventually create a censorship of the Croatian Parliament and to do so, that MPs in the Croatian Parliament cannot speak in the way they should and of whom they expect those who elected them to the Croatian Parliament. So I fight it hard, we must have the opportunity, here, to talk openly about the problems that Croatian citizens have. Like you were talking about the problem. I've got 20 seconds left. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, the clock does not work up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142050	The clock doesn't work up, but I measured. .../Intruder Maras: 20 seconds says we still have, here's 18. Now it's working, it's working too late, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142051	So the problems I've had, the problems we've had in the Gorski kotar. What? So in the Gorski Kotar of Insecurity by spying on Mr. Bozinovic, these are the things where HDZ brought us back 30 years ago. [[You're right, it worked late, it worked late.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142052	The clock hasn't worked long, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it's not your fault, it's not your fault. Mr. Pernar, you didn't have a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142053	Dear Representative Maras censors, unfortunately we're witnessing, it's getting stronger and bigger, but that's the consequence of so-called. ... a society where categories of insecure thoughts and even thought crime are introduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, I recently shared the news of some migrants, who transferred RTL and I was attacked by that state commission, as ethically, they said as if I thought it would cause negative comments, so I'm guilty because I published that link, so I like to delete that link. So how do they know I meant it? So, but the very idea, that it's an accusation, that we're talking about thought crimes, is something that reminds us of the book of George Orwell in '84. And unfortunately, that's the society we're wrestling towards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142054	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142055	Thank you very much, colleague Pernar, for what I can promise you, that these HDZ listeners on Prisavlje will not stop me. It will not stop me because it is impossible to explain to people what HDZ is trying to do, that pensions in Croatia are great, the EU candidate Sokol says, so vote for the EU list of HDZ because they think pensions in Croatia are great. It will not stop me because 3 hundred thousand of our citizens have left the Republic of Croatia, so if we want such a policy, that is, if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want to continue to support the HDZ. to support HDZ. So it's impossible today, today, in Internet times, social networks, it's impossible to stop information. They may be able to do conservatively and remove this from the frame, although it is amazing to see this kind of censorship in Croatia but the truth will not stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142056	Thank you. Let's move on with individual debates, Mr. Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142057	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it's time to go back to the agenda of today's private protection bill, to drag to other topics that have nothing to do with today's topic, we know that parliamentary elections, we know that today is the last session, and we know that many are using the opportunity here to capture precious seconds and minutes, I think some public is assessing how correct this is. I will stick strictly to the subject of this law, I have already pointed out in the introduction through the question how important this is, and where we have therefore almost 16.5 thousand persons with permission to carry out private protection activities and that, in practice with this law, we will have a number of improvements in the application of physical and technical protection, but also to refresh and raise the level of its quality, given that the National Security Strategy provides for the inclusion of both legal entities and private protection sectors in the Homeland Security System, which I consider to be very important. So we have heard the most significant changes in relation to the current law, which is defined security activities as a security economic branch dealing with the problem of protecting citizens and their assets, thus providing support and complementing the fundamental protection of the state and not belonging to a group of service activities. It is also important to point out that the conditions for carrying out the security activity for persons from the Republic of Croatia and legal and natural persons are equal to those of the European Union, assuming that they have a permanent establishment in the Republic of Croatia. We also welcome the strengthening of the security position as a security economic branch, which, with the effective protection of the interests of the clients and the contracting parties, will also act as a support in the work of the police, as highlighted through the provisions of the National Security Strategy. I also welcome the introduction of new categories of security guards, specialists, security guards, which therefore opens up the possibility of making judgments by persons from the technical profession, the introduction of a risk assessment methodology, the reduction of the time needed to obtain permits to carry out private protection activities, and also the regulation of conditions for temporary and occasional enforcement of security activities by legal and physical persons from the EU. I would underline a few other things that are significant pointed out that a security guard's obligation is also required to react and apply powers exceptionally and beyond the protection perimeter only if they threaten a person's inviolability and reduce the value of the property that is being protected, so what has not been the case so far if they see an adverse event. Introduce the possibility that craftsmen who have been restricted to do physical protection work so far. It is related to the fact that exemptions are prescribed from attending education for persons who, during their working life on certain other jobs, acquired a certain professional capacity, education, experience in the field of security, that I primarily think of persons who worked in the police and military, the judicial police and other affairs with an obligation to pass exams because it made no sense for such persons who had passed that level to go back from the beginning. It is also important to highlight and release guards from job activities, which did not have any direct connection with their jobs and thus their activity is directed towards those primary, security jobs. The possibility of using firearms in the insurance of escorts and distribution of other shipments and the transport of persons as well as significant inspections of passengers and luggage, of course, of these jobs, is also being defined here that this requires a higher level of training for those persons. It is significant that I also mentioned in the introduction that the powers of guards, security guards, etc., here, through the debate of colleagues, were observed to reduce the necessary level of qualification for the category of guards and guards. It needs to be pointed out that this makes it practically possible for people who do not, we have heard largely that a large number of people who do not have adequate expertise, that they can be involved in these jobs, we know that these jobs are underpaid but it is also a commitment that these people, that they are required to undergo additional training when it comes to security guards and when it comes to guards that they are obliged to pass a professional exam. Therefore, this fact itself confirms that selection will be carried out and that the necessary level of protection will be ensured for the necessary level of ability to carry out these tasks. There were also speeches related to Article 3(2) concerning the establishment of a judgment of a threat, hence the making of evaluations in buildings or on the public and other surfaces, the area therefore. And you can get the impression when it comes to this item if we look at it isolatedly and only talk about objects that this assessment would have to apply to any private object that you would like to hear even though in recital 3(4), Art. 1. It is defined that this protection is prescribed only for legal persons and craftsmen, while natural persons and their private facilities are excluded from that activity. We also carried out a comprehensive and debate on the home policy and national security committee where it is proposed, several proposals have been made through a committee discussion, it is proposed to consider the possibility of creating a precondition for the protection of domestic entities that carry out security activities from the authorities of foreign entities that are increasingly taking over the market, in certain cases, by applying, therefore, and unfair commercial practices in view of here and the involvement of this segment now and in national security, also considered board members and proposed to develop a system that would stimulate domestic companies, particularly in relation to a branch of technical protection. The possibility of protecting the material rights of natural persons engaged in security activities is also proposed, given the low wage average in these activities, this is what other colleagues were talking about. It is also proposed to strengthen the inspection work of the ministry, given that cases have been recorded that security guards carry out unauthorized fire operations, not sanctioned by employers who refer them to such work. And the members of the board also proposed that provisions be introduced into the law to strengthen the protection of individuals performing security work against all types of physical attacks, with appropriate sanctions for perpetrators, which is practically not seen in this law except in those general measures which prescribe it. And it is particularly in the debate that we have looked at critical infrastructure by expressing concern that on the side of the security company, foreign security companies could carry out security jobs in such facilities and it is suggested that this material, that this matter should be further considered and tried to find a way to prescribe a way of doing protection and critical infrastructures only by domestic legal persons performing private protection. So here, along with these suggestions and general acceptances, the committee unanimously adopted this proposal for first reading of the law, and here we expect by the promoters that until the second reading, those suggestions that we have heard here and through the debate to shape them and in the final proposal of this play.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142058	The first replica has Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142059	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirt, I'm replicating to your first part and a few remarks you've made regarding my exposure. So it's not clear to me why you're neglecting the fact that at this point HDZ has produced the biggest spy affair since the 1990s in the Republic of Croatia, where it's possible to spy on the interior minister and how it doesn't link it to citizens' security and how it doesn't link it to the situation where we're talking about people in the Republic of Croatia should have a basic sense of security, whether physically when they move the Republic, whether on the Internet when they move through space, means, and collect information, inform themselves, write to each other etc. So, unfortunately HDZ does not provide this, HDZ gives people a sense of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142060	Here's your answer, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142061	Thank you very much. Well, here, dear colleague Maras, I have neither quoted you nor mentioned you, nor commented on you personally, but I have commented on going beyond the subject and on you and other colleagues, and the best way to do with this shift of topics in areas that have nothing to do with today's agenda and today's point of view is to talk about yourself and to tell citizens what you care about, and I haven't even commented on spy affairs, which I could talk about when I open them, I haven't even commented on the freedom of the media about what I could talk about and on the arrival of your authority and shift, literally cutting down the staff, the famous cutting of HRT personnel, and I continue to think that this is not appropriate, and that citizens don't expect from the MPs representatives here, but expect us to deal on the agenda with the points that we are intended, and on the subject of immigrants and freedom of the media there are times and topics where we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142062	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142063	Here's my colleague, Škorić, and I'm going to lean on my colleague Maras, and you said we were talking about topics that aren't on the agenda, and we're talking about these topics because HDZ is silent about these topics. Now I'm asking you how, say, the subject of migrants has nothing to do with today's agenda? I asked the question, do the people whose migrants are breaking into houses, because this government doesn't do its job through the police, they have to take over security companies, and that's about this law, is this law going to make it easier for citizens to protect themselves from migrants or not? You talk about these topics silently and accusing us of talking for election purposes, I'm not a candidate on these Euroselections, I'm not, so I'm not talking for pre-election purposes, I'm talking on behalf of the voters and citizens of my county who are at risk for not doing your government and HDZ. And I'd like to hear, here's your opinion, let me know, do you think that this is not a valuable topic of debate in this House, the threat of citizens by the inability of this government because of the migrant crisis because you don't know how to deal with it, is that okay with you? And if that's what we should talk about When the agenda you put together does not give us a chance, but in this way [[Intruder: Time]] Which I can relate to, tell me, here's an answer. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142064	Here you go, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142065	Thank you very much. You are absolutely out of the question again, about the topic of migrants that is current and which burdens both our country and all EU Member States, so there is a time when we are going to talk, this issue has been opened before and before, and a year ago, the police have called for the protection of the Croatian border by illegal crossings, precisely from the representatives of your government, from the attorney general and everything else, then you have stood up for protection, you have called on the police to carry out excessive repression that protects your border from illegal crossings, today we are discussing why we have this number of police officers and we are bringing ourselves into some kind of parameters with some other EU countries that have normal circumstances, which have no such limit as Croatia has. So we're protecting the border of Europe here. Of course that topic will come to the agenda and I expect you to have a constructive discussion about it and not the spread of destruction again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142066	Time. Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142067	Dear colleague Škvorić. The problem is, you don't protect the borders, because to protect yourself then people wouldn't be in the depths of the territory and what's going on wouldn't happen. Second, if no law had been passed that prevents anyone else from helping them, even humanitarianally, then they probably wouldn't have come into a situation of breaking and entering. When they burn mattresses to save themselves from winter, then it's logical that it's not the solution. And I would ask you because you weren't at the board meeting, and I wasn't either if you didn't think it was the position of all the board members and members, some of them were prevented justifiably, so it wouldn't be good to talk about something regulated by law and that's the market you can't close. The AKD could not remain the only company as state-owned to guard state facilities because it had to adapt to the market. Therefore, we cannot now ban foreign companies from being in competition here because they are not foreign companies but are EU companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142068	The answer, sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142069	Thank you very much. So here's the problem of migrants having different phases than a few years ago when it came up today and in each of these phases we need to find an answer on how to deal with this issue and I'm sure this government will find answers. As far as the committee and the board's conclusions were concerned, there were nine members, and they all unanimously adopted, we led the debate, we also touched the questions whether we could limit and limit the arrival of foreign labour and entry into this area. Of course, here we have first and foremost touched critical infrastructures and laws, or national security, whether in a particular segment certain things can be limited and directed to protect both critical infrastructure and people doing the job. Therefore, the Committee unanimously adopted the conclusions and the proposal for this law and, as such, we expect until the second reading to be analysed and everything we discussed on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142070	Thank you. Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142071	Thank you. Col. Škvoric, so fellow SDP colleagues used today's debate to point out the problem with migrants who suddenly enter homes, destroy our citizens' assets, and that makes them feel insecure. However, back in the year, these same colleagues called the Croatian police that it was brutal, that it would not allow migrants to enter against the law, enter the country and so on. The presses were held, they were taken in the Chamber of Pauses, they were called together, i.e. The meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security were convened, all because of the police who only did their job. Now, can you comment on what part is correct, whether in this year's time the call of the police or suddenly the calling of migrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142072	We had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, first. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142073	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, so a colleague here cannot answer to his SDP colleagues in a replica, but he must answer to his colleague, Škvoric. And it's not a football game to ask for comments, so give me a colleague to comment on. We've been here for 2.5 years, my colleague learned a little bit in 2.5 years and said he wasn't reading paper, that's progress, but he could learn a little bit from the Rules of Procedure. Well then know that you can't in the replica of your colleague who hasn't spoken at all here take care of the replicas of other MPs. Here I am begging you, Vice President, to influence and yet speak and not the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142074	Okay. I notice that we are very objective when it comes to others and very subjective when it comes to their performances. ... So, yeah, so, yeah, I'll follow your advice, from now on whoever's talking off topic will get a warning right now can? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, but I'll say it's your fault. ... [[Intruder: You can.]] Here you go, Mr. Shkwaric. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142075	Thank you very much. I hope that my replica will not be out of the question because it is brought to what you have allowed so far, so the topics that have nothing to do with today's session and my colleague, Strac, has well underlined that here colleagues have double standards and double criteria, that they abuse today's agenda topic and open topics that have nothing to do with it. And that can also be confirmed on a number of other examples, so I wouldn't open up and I wouldn't cause a replica any further, I wouldn't cause a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142076	Now it's Mr. Tomislav Sauch's turn, here you go, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that what has been said here so far in the assembly is in some way very much about this topic because it is one of the basic messages that is sent by this law that the state and through its system means security provides actually something that might be called basic protection, a basic package of protection and tells citizens that if they think that it is not enough that they always have the possibility to engage so-called. premium package, to hire private security companies if they don't feel satisfied, if they don't feel, pardon, secure with that degree of protection of persons and property means by the state and if they want something beyond the scope provided by the state. So I think in this, I think the message of this law, even though this is not now, this law is based on a previous law that has been in force for a long time. I think the message of this law is wrong in that sense because I think the state should provide everyone with an equal level of security and not send a message that you can be more secure if you have money to pay for it because security services cost, don't cost a bit, and companies are turning huge profits and not everyone can afford a personal security guard or a security guard to protect his property, for example. A cottage or a house in Gorski Kotar. But let's go back to the very subject of this law. So, in my view, a monopoly on legitimate change in physical coercion should and may only have a single state through its services, through the police, through a security-intelligence system, through potentially in some moments extreme armies but certainly not have such powers to share their monopoly, which is why it also called a monopoly should not be shared with private entities, giving them powers that move within some frameworks and almost at the level of police powers. I think that every intrusion into human rights and here I'm talking about violating these fundamental human rights, therefore the right to move, so when we talk about retention, there is a violation of the human right to move, that this should be done extremely carefully and of course it can only be limited by law and now we do it by law, but we should consider at what point and to what extent and in what way. So in this law there are some terms and some new elements that I personally don't like, and I think that such actions should only be done by the police and that security guards should have a potentially preventive function so that they can keep someone away from the police and certainly shouldn't be able to actively deal with finding perpetrators or criminal offences, investigations, I don't know, investigations, bindings, cuffs, cuffs, restraints, etc. I don't think at any point it can be an excuse that something like this is happening at all, and I'm particularly impressed by a detail of an article where it says that when you use the means of coercion, you'll be particularly careful to treat children, pregnant women, older people and people who are clearly in a worse state of health, so at that point we say de facto we're handing over to that security specialist, a specialist, as he already calls himself, means to a private employee in a private company that I don't know, to perform some fighting procedure on a pregnant woman, but then I also hope that he will act with caution. I don't know, I guess he'll take her by the neck, make sure she doesn't catch her stomach, etc. I mean, that's terrible stuff. So inside the mate list of these measures and the description of the coercion measures, you have a description of what the coercion measure means. I'll just find it, I'm sorry. I mean, it's important here right now to be very precise. He says it's only a little bit like this, so under physical strength, it's one of the means of forcing these private security guards to do, says within the meaning of this law it's considered a blow to part of the body. I think it would be a folk slap, a fist, a body check, a bumping body in the body, forgive the Republic of Croatia, I sincerely hope that only one single police has that right under controlled conditions if it's really necessary and not the security guard of the company, something, something, that I'm not advertising them right now. There are meanings at this point in Croatia, I read the data, that the number of security guards is about to compete with the number of police officers. Now, I don't know how you do it, but it's making me angry. As soon as we go to a new moment, which is that they've added these people new rights and powers from now on have the right to tie people up with handcuffs, shoelaces, so they're those plastic ties that just tighten up, so the more you wrinkle, the more they tighten, the more they tighten, the more nice, nice hands they have the right to use tear gas, the more they have the right to peel, the more they have the right to strip. So in these circumstances, I think the fact that these security guards now have almost as cops, it's creepy and I give it to me, a little bit I've forgotten, under this new law, before the security company could only get guns for half of its employees, now the power will get them weapons for all the employees. So now we'll have about 15,000 armed, private soldiers on the road. It's scary to me. It won't have enough time to go into some details and I wanted you to have a lot of illogicalness in this law and I'm wondering what the perimeter means, meaning what that range means... e.g. The concept of a protected person is being introduced, there are several who have been protected, so they know what it means to be a protected person, I've worked for a long time for a protected person, I know what it means to be a protected person under the law of police and police authority, and under this law, each of us can become a protected person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, for example. If I have enough money, I can make myself a protected person, go to some company and say, listen, I'm threatened and can walk around Zagreb, say, with 3.4 guards who then apply powers according to this law, issue orders, says hands. So they're preventing, for example, I don't know, I don't like it sometimes when I pass that there's a traffic jam, so now two, three guards will protect my physical integrity in a way that a little bit of people break down and not in uniform, but in civilian clothes and with a gun that's hidden, with a badge that's not pointed out. So here we are now creating a system that is a parallel system in security that the state reserves exclusively for its top officials, for me it's slightly creepy. It's also creepy for me to be given the ability and the authority of the security guards that within a protected facility, and that may be the whole of a shopping mall, at any moment it has the right to check your identity. So I'm walking around now, like I don't know, at some shopping mall and I got a security guard coming in, good afternoon, good afternoon, personal. If I don't, I can say no, so he can look at me, he can do anything, I can say no, but then we'll wait there, I don't know, an hour, two, three police, not to talk about it another detail inside that's amazing to me that in the same basket puts some kind of thief who I don't know, stole Nutella in Muller, and me as a witness who I accidentally found there, so this security guard has the right to assess that I just saw what was happening, he has the right to keep me until the police arrive because he has the right to provide witnesses. I'm not even sure the police have a right to do that. And what if I said I didn't want to know, I don't know, rush, if I didn't see it, he would tie me up or make a lever over me, and it's all very expensive, and I'm going to appeal to the M.P., and with all due respect to the M.P.P. and their control system and internal control, I'd like to see in the last 10 years how many times the internal control of the M.I.P. is some sort of finding in the complaint of a citizen, she gave and that citizen's favorite of the unfortunate who complained, I think they're 2.3%. I think that in some things you've exaggerated, I think you've also made a mistake in using firearms, meaning when assessing the use of coercion funds, you say here in Article 52(2) when you have to refuse an illegal direct attack that threatens their life or the lives of the people who protect them, then the means of coercion are used, all of it. Now, that's okay, it coincides with the concept of necessary defence, but in the use of weapons, that standard is not stated, I would pray, and there I will write the amendment, that it is clearly prescribed that weapons should only be used in cases of necessary defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142078	Time, thank you very much. Thank you, time. [[Saucha: Thank you very much.]] Mr. Curaj asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142079	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Saucha, yes, you've made this very clear, I think that on behalf of the club you've also said on the same trail, in fact I just want to apply it even more, one example that I set on behalf of the club, we had an old lady in Osijek who passed over the zebra and didn't want to legitimize herself to the official police person who then took the lever over her, we all got disgusted. And what if it were a security guard? Of course it should absolutely be stated, we can't, especially since we're reducing the level of qualifications here, now the guard can do anything but carry a weapon. It cannot be left for them to judge what they can and cannot, we must clearly define it. It's clear to me that we need things that they can do in the beginning, we have these robberies, malts not now but in every week of certain offices of financial, etc., and that's where they have to protect themselves and their powers but not for the citizens to show it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142080	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142081	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Curaj, I agree with you and this is very problematic, so you're lowering, so the conditions and criteria for hiring a guard are reduced, there's an explanation that they're a wave of older people who mean they don't have as broad powers as these special forces, but then it's said in article 45 that powers are prescribed and then they're said to be, meaning identity checks, giving warnings,... The restriction, so the only thing I can't do is use the means of coercion, but then the question arises, given that the guards are given the possibility of being held back, how will you keep someone if you don't have the right to apply coercion? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's an absurd norm, so it actually comes down to the guards, so you say these older people who are so there that I don't know them, I guess, I think, that those poor people in those situations are going to be doing their job at all, only they can't, they can't carry a gun, I guess that's supposed to be our only consolation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142082	Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142083	Comrade Sauch, just one detail, correction. About 9% of cases confirm a complete or partially complete complaint against citizens in cases of internal control. There are additional controls and through the Committee on Internal Policy, as well as the system of professional control that exists in the police, so it would not be good to send a message in some way that there is no control over the example of coercion, even the chief of police administration has to sign it, so it is used properly, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142084	Mr. Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142085	Dear colleague, it's a small comfort to some mother with a child stuck in a shopping ring because she was in the wrong place, at the wrong time, so by chance someone next to her, like I said, stole Nutella, and then she had to wait an hour and a half for the police to come and tell the police that she didn't know anything about it, that she didn't see anything, and that the security guard had actually kept her there for no reason. It's a small comfort. So we leave it to people who aren't cops if they want to have those powers and if they want to do that job, let them apply to the M.O.P. competition, become cops, police officers. We can't have private security guards playing police with someone limiting movement, movement, freedom of movement is a fundamental human right. No one else but the police has the right to tell me if I can leave or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142086	If that's the case, people will go shopping less and we'll all make money on it except the trade chains. Here you go. Mr. Ostojić, you have an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142087	Thank you, Vice President. If we don't go shopping malls, then we probably won't have anywhere to pay for all this together and us here. As for this follow-up to the story on this subject, I will read just one more, "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." That was quoted by Mr. Jandrokovic, not you, just so that there is no confusion about what we just had. This is a letter that I received on April 29, 2019, a reply related to the actions that Sauch now mentions and says the correct sentence. No one but the police, I'll add, no one but the police and whoever is authorized under the law, we can't limit freedom of movement, it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the allegations written in this letter are not correct, which is that in 2000 they found no reason for further normisation and how to implement the restrictive measure of the distance of the representatives from the session. That's what I'm saying for the first reason I'm going to commend the Assembly guard because it wouldn't have occurred to anyone that I'm saying anything about people doing this job, very quietly, neatly and forced to carry out these tasks amongst other things. But since we have yet another excellent service and others who allow us to work here in the Croatian Parliament, means in the Croatian Assembly and the Scriptures, if you try a little hard to get the document, it has been written since 25 July 2003: "In connection with the obligation to make, that is, the adoption of a law that stems from this detail, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the Anti-Intelligence Protection Regulation and has done nothing less than the Proposal for a Law on the Watch of the Croatian Parliament." So the text of the proposal for a law on the watch of the Croatian Parliament, he is, all this paper is made means at the time of this very government where it is stated here in a letter from the President of the Croatian Parliament that tells me that they did not consider it appropriate to be further standardized. Of course, even now, the same conditions in the Constitution have to be regulated because only the law - established situation can be handled in this way. The jobs our guards are doing can be explained by this law to you by the same thing I was saying, this is from the food, meaning from our service house, from the library, if you work in the archives you can get any document that can help you, and that is that the jobs in which guards can face the use of funds coercion can only be used when prescribed by law. Well, nothing has changed since that time. And only the law can regulate the restriction of rights and freedom because by the constitution of guaranteed freedom they can be denied by law alone. For that reason, I'm going to use this, and that means I'm going to give the text here to the people who are here today as representatives of the Secretary of State, and I hope that it will integrate it into this story because this is a very important topic, it's about protection, private protection, and how it's done here with us. As far as other matters are concerned about all the law, I must say that the issue of our protection, or what a man can do to protect himself from certain things, can reach out to private protection, make a contract with them, trade and so forth. If therefore forced people who are potentially exposed to risks, it proves two things, one that or not to protect the border, means that police do not do the job as they say they are working, which is that the border is impermeable or the variant is next that it is done on purpose, that they are released just under another law that has been passed, which is that they must not be helped in any way or even humanitarianally on their passage or on the path they pass. For this reason, I think it's very important that these people who are hiding, who are in a situation that they have to survive literally, we know how many have been killed so far, how many actually were situations and incidents not only in the places we're talking about, then it's really logical that people should soon activate private protection around their houses, maybe someone will suggest to them, which is to ensure against such thefts. And I won't generalize or say it's just a question of migrants but the question is next. If so many people have gone through Croatia and only the army has captured a thousand, then we are faced with the situation that we need possible help from private security guards, but I am now returning to the topic of this law. Croatian police have the right to hire 7300 people from the reserve police, 7300. In terms of our entry into the EU, so as not to confuse our monitoring condition, which means one of the points that we had to meet that we had 6200 officers before joining the EU and that number has not changed. The only thing that's changed is the next time someone says they're missing people and that's that they're actually facing something that's that there's no organized approach. At this point, we are defending Europe from Europe, not falling from the sky, coming from Greece or Romania, and we are being blackmailed at this point and we have to wait for these situations to happen to us and for someone else to praise us in order to eventually enter the Schengen. In Ogulin, Dubrovnik, Metkovic, on the highway etc., incidents happen, why, of course, because the situation is such that it is not even possible to do so. If it's done on purpose so that eventually an army can come out of the law now and it can get off the border, if it's being prepared for such a thing, then the question is, what are we going to do about it? I hope the army doesn't go there without guns. What I think is very important as a solution and this is the reserve police and 150 million kunas spent more last year in the budget, and it cost so much the total migrant crisis, it was spent just for the cost of people going to the field. Billion kuna equipment and that's what you Mr. Secretary of State rightly pointed out to have the equipment, it was bought meaning with a billion kunas from the Schengen Facilitity Fund and today you have a helicopter that can control the border so no one can hear it 8km away and read what it says to someone on their shirt. It's a variant where you got a total of 120m euros of equipment to work. There's nothing important about it that's changed. And I think it's much more important to say another thing and that's why people then take a taxi, a concrete example that we've had. And it won't help either the security guards or the military or anyone else. He takes it because it's a different system in Slovenia because he knows he'll be registered under the law, that he'll pass the process and that he might be granted asylum. Is that what's going on with us? Now, I can't claim it anymore, but I can talk about something else, which is that the issue of police work can't be evaluated through this job. I think the work of the police is being experienced through the sense of the security of the citizens. And for that reason, if security guards didn't make any incident or problem, then of course we would have had that as a good part of the home security system. But if it happens that these same guards steal or make, I have no idea what you get the impression of it, of course it's a bad thing and no one can help. I think it's important in all of this together about this law that you incorporate these things with the fact that I have to say that the issue of wages, the companies that were in the first 10, made at least 18 thousand kunas. Let's say you take one private owner, 18 thousand kuna per employee. So every month a thousand and a half kuna could have been taken, or 1,000 kuna per employee was making money, I'm talking about profit, not traffic. So it doesn't matter if these people are going to be stimulated for this dangerous job that they're doing, so it would be good to sort of put it into the law and agree with those colleagues who have talked about it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142088	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ostojić. We've got a few replicas, a respected colleague of Souch's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142089	Dear colleague, I think we may be a little too hard on our security guards here in the Parliament on guard duty. I think we should understand that in a way that all of us, when we came here to the assembly and swore to the MPs, have committed ourselves to respecting the Rules of Procedure. In the Rules of Procedure, these things are relatively loosely regulated, but they are regulated, the holding of order at the session is regulated. And if there's any kind of physical coercion and there's some kind of physical coercion, I think that we're all kind of just agreeing to it here, that possibility, and that we should look at it as an example. Let's say a sports injury. Two people pair up, say, for example. in wrestling procedures and each other's broken arm, there's no illegality because this one whose arm was broken has agreed to the possibility of something like this happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142090	Thank you. Dear colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142091	My dear colleague, we are not here to willingly consent, but we are passing laws and the law is very important, no one can, and we have sworn that we will obey the law. Only the law can limit something and I'm not strict on the parliamentary guard, I said they do it, but no one can get them into a situation where they don't have the basis for their actions. There's no basis for why the law hasn't been passed, there's a proposal here, I'm going to give it to the secretary of state there to try to incorporate it inside and then it won't happen that people are taking risks, being in criminal acts, doing something that isn't founded on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142092	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142093	Thank you. Comrade Ostojić, you stated in your debate that the army had encountered and brought in about 1,000 migrants. We all know the border is guarded by the police. So you can only explain that there is no confusion or that someone doesn't think that the army is at the border, that they're guarding, where and how these thousands of migrants came into the hands of the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142094	Thank you. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142095	Dear colleague, I have used the exact information and I will repeat, the army is not at the border, it is not their job, they are in the depths of Croatian territory, working in guard posts, they have captured thousands. It is therefore those who have passed through the impermeable Croatian border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142096	Thank you. The next replica of a respected fellow vice president of the Parliament, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142097	Thank you very much. Although I was showing myself on this subject before my colleague Ostojić misread the controversy, it was no controversy, but we all wish well when it comes to the issue of this law but also when it comes to the Assembly's watch. We have one problem, I listened carefully to what Mr. Ostojić was saying and he mentioned that under the Police Law, only the police have the right to certain things. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And let us not forget that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is an organic law that must be passed by the majority of the votes of all MPs and is at the same level as the Law on the Police or as the Law on Police Authorities, about the police better referred to as the organic law. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142098	Comrade Radin, you're out of time, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142099	No, I'm just going to say that, there's a constitutional problem here that our Rules of Procedure may be counter-constitutional because in Article 241 gives the guards powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142100	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142101	Dear colleague Radin, I will tell you again, read Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it will be perfectly clear that the Rules of Procedure would then be settled and then it would not have happened, just to tell you, this is now what I quote to you the agenda of the Croatian Parliament Presidency. You are sitting there so you must know this draft of the Law on the Watch of the Croatian Parliament establishing a proposal. The Bureau reaffirms the need for the adoption of the Watch Act and I estimate that, during the remaining time until the Croatian Parliament is dissolved, it cannot implement regular procedures. Well, they wouldn't have done that if they hadn't realized that's what the Constitution says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142102	I thank my esteemed colleague, I will remain for the answer. We move on to the closing word on behalf of the clubs. SDP counseling club. ... He's giving up his colleague Ostojić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142103	I'd like to address this opportunity to all the security guards who work for the poor pay, or the poor hour. In fact, security guards usually work for 16 kn an hour. This work is often on long shifts at night, 12 hours, etc., etc. On the other hand, I'm going to tell the security guards how the MPs work. The assembly is, as a rule, I say, usually because often it doesn't sit because of breaks, three days a week. 3 days a week, assuming that the MPs are here for 8 hours, which is the vast majority, is not, not that it's not 8 hours, but the question is whether at all half an hour or an hour and we multiply it by 4 times a month. So 3 days a week for 8 hours, 4 weeks, total, we have a monthly 96 hours of work, assuming everyone here was present, at least 8 hours, when the session was held. In such circumstances, if the pay is, say, 15000 kn, then it comes out that our Captain is 156 kn. So we're paid $156 an hour, ladies and gentlemen. And so the guards are paid 16 kn an hour, or 10 times less than we are paid. And the paradox is that security guards expect the state to protect them, that they'll demand that they raise the captains, etc. However, I must tell them this time, it will never happen, this country, it does not care for you, gentlemen and ladies guards, but you, I call you, now publicly, will have to fight for your larger captains alone and I advise you to strike. Because it's not right for those who run security companies to have villas in the Bahamas and you don't have to live naked. So, gentlemen of security, agree to each other, they have no one to replace you with, no labour force in Croatia, which would replace you, agree on a collective strike, if you are looking for, to start looking for 20 kn per hour, minimum, net, minimum. Don't let this system make a fool of you, don't let the HDZ people who have millions laugh at you, and those who cooperate with them, and when elections are, please, make sense to your head, and I don't have to draw specifically for you who you should vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142104	I would like to thank my colleague Pernar, final word, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Honorable Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ma'am and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I thank all MPs and MPs who have spoken and made their comments, suggestions, proposals to improve the text of the proposal of the Private Protection Act. We have heard certain proposals, which will certainly be carefully considered and probably included in the text of the final bill. It is certain that our intensity and our intention and desire was, that this law would be no burden for economic operators, who are users of private protection, but that in a simple way, in simple procedures, they could use private protection services. Also, the law must define firmly and clearly, the powers of the security guard, but it must protect and protect the security guard, to know that if someone treats him wrong, he will suffer consequences. It shall also, of course, protectors and guards, when applying their powers, be explicitly prescribed by law, if the powers to ensure the place of events or use of the means of coercion apply, so as to be subject to the verification of the legality and application of those powers. And that's what they're doing right now, special commissions in police administrations, we're now introducing a commission in the Ministry of the Interior, for the most difficult cases, if when we use these powers, it's been committed, some kind of, therefore, major physical injury or God forbid that someone died. The number of such assessments of legality is said annually, so he's relatively small, that's exactly what was said here. It moves about 200ths of a year, and about 2% are found to have acted against the rules, so it is found that it has violated the law and regulations. Certainly, this law, its intention is to help people feel safer and to contribute to the overall security of society, not to endanger the freedoms and rights of citizens and to reach them to a certain extent. In this sense, the law has limitations, and we will carefully consider and point to certain observations, for example, the article. Article 50(3) and some of the others we've heard here specifically. So here, apart from the fact that the provisions of this law are true, there have been a lot of words, on some other issues, I will briefly refer to the question, although of course I can touch security, for example, the migrant crisis and its reflexes, i.e. the impact on the security of citizens. The interior ministry does not deny that the border is under special pressure, last year over 8,000 illegal migrants were caught in therefore, illegally crossing or staying in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress and make it clear that the obligation of the Croatian police, in accordance with the Law on State Border Control, is to control the crossing of the state border and to protect it, and in particular to ensure the inviolability of the state border and the state area of the Republic of Croatia, to prevent illegal migration and to protect the lives and health of people. This is what Croatian police do and invest in, as I said, great resources, great human and other resources. On the issue raised by Mr. Djujic not to remain responsible, this week, yesterday was the meeting of all the chiefs of police administrations in Karlovac, to further strengthen the work, and especially with regard to events in Gorski Kotar, there was also a meeting of the Chief of Police, therefore the Primorje-Gorski, the Chief of Staff in the department with the Assistant Director of Police, there was also a meeting in the municipality of Mrkopalj with the head of the municipality and responsible persons. Mr. Ostojić, in his speech, when speaking on behalf of the club, primarily referred to a certain guard of HS, so he did not touch the question of the law that is here before you. In doing so, I was imputing, saying that something should be prescribed by an internal act. So, absolutely, I said that the guard of HS is not, her work is set up, not regulated by this law. In the meantime, I checked her work and structure, she was regulated by the Government Regulation, and partly by the Art. 241 and 244. It's HS's office. There is also, yes, an internal act, which is the decision on the security protection measures of HS, which was adopted by the HS presidency on 19 January 2010. However, all these questions do not, of course, go into the works of this law, but they are important, they were here and I wanted to refer to them. I thank all of you once again on your proposals and within the business period this law will appear on a second reading and improve your constructive remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142106	I thank the Secretary of State. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Sauch, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142107	Thank you very much. I'd just like to pull it one more time because it's very important to me. Art. ... St. 1. means when it comes to the use of firearms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just asking you to put in the same standard that exists in art. 52nd in the use of coercion funds. So to refuse an illegal direct attack that endangers their life or the lives of the people who protect them. So you left it here in art. which regulates when firearms can be used. I believe that the use of the means of coercion in terms of physical force or tear gas is far less serious than the use of firepower. So, just put it there in a sentence, so a security guard and a security specialist can use firearms when doing a private protection job in another way can't refuse it means, at the same time, a direct counter-attack means that their life or the life of the person who protects them will be better, and in that way this article will be better because it... A necessary defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142108	I thank my colleague, Sauch. Would you like to answer the Secretary of State? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142109	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, I'm glad you accepted or will consider some of our proposal and I don't want to get the impression that we're against these laws. We must always have this, be aware of these security needs, which are sometimes contrary to freedom or movement or individuals or to the restriction of that freedom of person. I think it's absolutely important and it's a good thing you said that the goal of this is to increase the overall security of society. I'm just asking you to really standard all possible solutions, not to leave people with a primary school or some security guard on the evaluation, then later on, what a court should establish, but to know exactly their powers and that they really, as a fellow Sacha said, go to when they can apply some means of coercion, bans, IDs, that it really is directly from whom something is more serious, and that it extends to their assessment to everyone in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142110	I thank my colleagues Curaju. My colleague Ostojić and my colleague, Radin, I would like to ask you nicely that, if you have some discussion, you can do it elsewhere. We have another replica, dear colleague Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142111	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I've been offered your explanation in line for the Assembly Guard. To be honest, it's unfortunate that someone who's been in a position to settle this a long time ago is now raising the question for purely political reasons. But I'm asking all of us a question. Are we asking ourselves how these people behave when they have to do things because we are not able to behave the way we have prescribed the Rules of Procedure? The other thing, even today in this debate, we forgot that people who work in private security companies are doing jobs that are exposed to their lives. Unfortunately, there have been fatal injuries in recent years, and I think that from this pate towards life's understanding, we simply have to discuss differently with these people simply, who carry out responsible and life-threatening jobs, should give certain powers to protect themselves and their lives, as well as to protect the property and those people who guard and watch over them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142112	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State at the MUP, Mr. Zarko Katic and his associates for their reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142113	Now we're going to go to the vote. First Proposal for a Law on Private Protection, first reading, P.Z. Number 635. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Private Protection and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 100 votes for and 13 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142114	We move to the following point: - Proposal for a Debt Protection Act in special cases of transfer of demand, first reading, P.Z. No. 222; Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA on the basis of Article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. The government has delivered its opinion. I'm asking the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. Does anyone want one? No, I don't. And you're going. And you're going, well, well, just take it easy, don't. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142115	... Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with a co-worker. [[Specially enabled.]] So here's the miracle of the unseen, after two years of the Living Wall having passed the law in the procedure, Friday, the final item of the agenda, our law came to debate, in front of a total of 11 MPs, if we add Mr. Vice President as well. And what to say, rather than this very relationship, shows that the ruling majority is having criticism, that they are experiencing opposition, and that they are generally experiencing citizens, above all those who are disproved, those who are powerless, those who need help. This is lacmus paper, this is a mirror, a ruling coalition, which even God no longer knows, how many different elements, how many coalition partners, how many individuals, how many tokens, what's not good? What's their pre-election program? Just 16 days before the election, we manage here, therefore, to see, all the misery of HDZ and their partners, because today we are essentially going to talk about what we are going to talk about, we are going to talk about one million Croatian citizens, who are bending under weight, performance and blockage. So we will talk about a quarter of the Croatian population, which is excluded from society, which are citizens of second order, who have no right to a decent life, who have no right at all, to be people who are at risk of fundamental human rights, which the institutions of the Republic, those institutions, which are engulfed by politics, which are, of course, all institutions in Croatia, simply do not want to help them, they do not want to help them, but, moreover, every day, all the crueler, increasingly inhumane, persecution until the destruction itself. We are, therefore, talking today about the performances, the executive law, in which the main invention of the stakeholders, who were accepted by HDZ with their partners, is that, between debtors and creditors, they are being inserted so-called. Intermediaries, who all make abnormal profits, far greater profits than the principal debt itself, and these intermediaries are therefore one new castra of rich people... selected lawyers, selected public notebooks, FINA various various experts, units of local self-government, individual legal services, and then according to the latest so-called I'm a law enforcement officer, and I'm a law enforcement officer, and I'm a law enforcement officer, and I'm a law enforcement officer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today, we suggest, that this question, this question, segregated, means that I've singled out the agencies, and to collect the claims, is finally regulated by law. Because that's, you'd dare say, perhaps the most sensitive question in the whole of the problem. It's a question of destruction of dignity, individual, family and society as a whole. This is a question that has recently arisen, which has now been escalated, to this extent, that we can say, practically, that these agencies have become in some way more powerful than business banks. The demand agencies are usually owned by foreign agencies, so they are not Croatian agencies, they are Sweden, Germany, Greece, 90 percent and more, so these agencies are not Croatian. They came to Croatia, according to CNB and the Croatian Parliament's permission to buy out citizens' debts, at some minimum prices, so that after that, the agencies, the debts they bought, were charged at 100%, not in 100%, but in 200% and 300%, because those on the debt capitals they bought wanted to collect and interest and wanted to charge and the costs of the proceedings, which, as I said in the introduction, are often higher than the principal herself. So, extremely simplistically speaking, the law enforcement agency, whether or not it's called... B2 capital, not to advertise them here now, can come to a bank or another executive, buy a 100 kn debt for 10 kn and then ask for not only 100 kn, but also 200 kn and 300 kn, which means that the demand agency can make 20, 30 times the profit of its investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So tell me gentlemen, if it's not interest, then what's interest? Let's make 10%, make 15%, make 25%, but when someone's got a 300 percent profit on somebody else's torture on someone else's accident, it's absolutely interest and nothing else. And not only do they want to charge such abnormal profits, but they literally terrorize people, harass and torture. Those in their ads write openly, we'll follow the debtors. They will follow the debtors. We will follow their habits. So what is UDBA and the KGB that he's following someone's habits, so you have no SOA or UDBA powers and they've got a law enforcement agency. And they know that you're home at 9:00 on Saturday, that you're not at work, and that he can call you at that time. And they call it 10, 12, 15 times in one day. Not only do they call the debtor, they call his family, they call his underage, they call him at work. They upset him in every way possible, threaten him, give him all the time in writing what he is and how much he owes. You can't find out where the offices of those agencies are, you can't set up a meeting with anyone in four eyes. You're talking to phantoms. You don't even know who you're talking to. You don't know how to talk to Ivan or Mirko, he tells you whatever name he wants or doesn't introduce himself to you at all or falsely introduce himself to you. They create psychosis in people, create depression in people, create despair in people, create suicidal thoughts in people, haunt people like wild beasts. Who? Requesting agencies. And worst of all, now be careful what's the worst of it, when the demand agency buys a debt from the bank, the bank gets a tax relief for sale, and the bank already collects the debt in full so that the debt can start again from the beginning, I repeat once again in the amount of several times. The requesting agencies have taken over at least the last available data for more than 10 billion kunas of debt. And now someone's going to say it's inevitable, we're in Europe, etc. But in other countries it is not, in other countries this market is regulated. Here in the U.S., in the United States, a believer is not allowed to contact a debtor at his workplace, it's not possible. The other thing is, it's not possible to call a debtor at an unusual time. So he can't be called before 8:00 in the morning and after 8:00 in the evening. Next, you can only contact the debtor through his lawyer, not a direct call. Furthermore, a believer is not allowed to use any inappropriate language and is at least allowed to use threats. For this reason, we in the Living Wall have written a special law that tries to regulate this market, even if it's stupid to say the market at all, as far as we're concerned, it's best that these agencies disappear from the Republic of Croatia in the first place and hopefully it will eventually happen, so we'll take this as a transitional step. We propose meaning in our special Law on the Protection of Debtants in Special Cases of Transfer of Search, which is that the debt can be handed over to the Agency to collect claims only if the debtor agrees with it in writing, in no other way. Furthermore, we suggest that the debtor has the same status as the claims agency in his trustee. This means that if a claiming agency can buy 10 kunas of debt for one kuna then the same right should be offered to the debtor with the right of the championship, with the right of the championship. So the first debtor has the right to buy out his debt under such conditions, so if he is not able, then he can be bought out by the claim-paying agency but again only and only with written consent from the debtor. Furthermore, prior to the transfer of the claim, the credit institution is obliged to offer the debtor the possibility of reprogramming credit to offer him new conditions, i.e. payment to wars. Furthermore, it is prohibited in any way to harass debtors, to contact debtors in the evening and night hours and during holidays, it is prohibited to contact debtors in his place of work, it is prohibited to contact members of the family of debtors and, if the debtor has the power of attorney, to contact the debtor instead of the debtor. Furthermore, the debtor is not allowed to be disturbed by frequent phone calls or frequent electronic communications. It's forbidden to threaten the debtor in any way, and that's exactly what the agencies are doing, so they're threatening all the debtors, threatening. If he won't give you 100 kunas, if he won't give you 50 kunas, if he won't give you 200 kuna, I'll send you to the house, we'll depose you, I'll send your boss to work, we'll charge you a full debt, etc. And then let's say you're threatening to, I don't know, take 300, 400,000 kunas at work, assuming that the employer will harass his employee or even fire him because of those threats. And what else can we say now than that when we look at this whole situation about these demand agencies and all these executive mafias, which is a name that's already domesticated to the public, we can't conclude anything else except that it's literally about a conscriptive mob that wants to rob and destroy Croatian people at all costs, and it literally according to the method of ancient Roman criticism. And it is very sad that something like that is allowed in some civilised country of the 21st century that has the Constitution among other things in point 1. says that Croatia is a social state and it is even sadder and even worse now that we are going to hear the representative of the Government illegal because it has not been elected with the votes of HDZ voters, which will find 100 reasons why this law cannot be adopted or why the madness of conduct, blockades and these agencies should continue. Regardless of the refusal we're about to hear, I'm still glad to be doing a stenogram of this debate, I'm glad the public listens no matter how few people are now in direct transmission because what's been done in the past eight years, since 2011 and... The executive law to be recorded as the biggest mistake and shame of government and HDZ and SDP as the worst legal framework ever created in the 21st century, a legal framework in which it culminated therefore the will to work against its own people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142116	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Comrade Churi, replica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142117	Here's a thank you for respecting the line. Well, I just had to for a short while actually what would be a taste of the law here would be much simpler if you said that the law says that the one who doesn't, doesn't have to pay and that no one can make him. The one who has, now we come up with a question about what we're going to do with him, does he have to pay or not, just your opinion? Is he who can, whether he has to pay or doesn't have to pay the debt, and does he rob it when someone takes it and takes someone's favors and doesn't pay it, did he rob it or rob it from someone who wants it to be charged? Those two notions to me just to clarify and this part would be much fairer if you'd looked at the law, if you'd said that the one who doesn't has to pay nothing, and those who have, now I have this doubt whether they should or should not pay or whatever. Here, and this part of who's robbing, I think we can make it clear if the robbery is the one that takes something and doesn't pay or the one who wants to collect it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142118	Thank you. Answer me, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142119	Thank you very much. Agent Curai, I understand you're afraid of banks, that's in your best interest, but you have to understand that the risk should be borne by both sides. And the believers and the debtors. Not all business risks can be transferred to one side only. And I'm saying once again, it's not a problem to pay the debts, it's not a problem to pay the principal, but here the thing is that someone takes 20, 30 kuna for 1 kuna. And to harass people in a way that violates their fundamental human rights. It upsets them in their home and disturbs them in their workplace. And it's in a way that can be called anything but transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142120	Thank you for your response. We're going back to the agenda. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? Here you are, State Secretary, Mr. Juro Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142122	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, so I am aware that you have received one detailed and quality government opinion on this legislative initiative but in short as a representative of the Government, I would like to say one more thing. This legislative initiative is essentially intruding into a number of the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms, which is therefore freedom of entrepreneurship, the principle of disposition in the mandatory and legal sphere, therefore in the negotiation of relations between individuals and therefore, it is simply from the aspect of societies where the rule of law on the scene is inadmissible. I must say that the state is very rarely in orderly, therefore, the rule of law systems, not intruding into that kind of civil relations. These are the things the parties arrange freely. So we have the principle of disposition and freedom of bargaining in regulated mandatory legal relations just as it touches here in the case of a severance. The Constitution and the Law on Mandatory Relations which is note bene on these premises, in these premises in force since '76. Sir, it is fully liberal and allows parties to regulate their civil-legislative relations in the way that it suits them most with the restriction that the act must be possible and that it must not be prohibited by law. So it must not be against the constitutional order, it must not be against the morale of society and the forced congenital norm. Everything else goes into freedom and the state doesn't get involved in that segment. So, the further thing is freedom of disposing of our property, we here have an attempt to limit the freedom of religion with its property and to impose on it the obligation to do so as the state would regulate it if Parliament passed such a law. It is simply not acceptable and therefore contrary to the constitutional order, it is contrary to principles and standards, so I must say that such an arrangement is in the civil regime, in order of the Roman Empire and not at a newer age. Calling for some solutions but not countering this from the American legal system is also legitimate but I must tell everyone who wants to hear it, that we as our legal order are based on standards, legal standards of European continental law. So, in short, these are the reasons for the government's leadership when it suggested not to accept all such a legal initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142123	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142124	Dear Representative Martinovic, the truth is that we want to side with the debtor in some way, the truth is that we want to limit the rights of the believer, and the reason why that is is because we are the debtor party, so we are the party that believes in the social division of debtors and creditors and we protect debtors. One of the reasons why we didn't want to participate in this HDZ government is that we don't have to be in the role you're in right now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142125	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please. Here you go, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142126	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers, I apologize. So you've even said one exact thing, and that's where I agree with you, and that's that debt slavery is the concept of being created in the time of the Roman Empire. That's absolutely correct. But debt slavery was created in the time of the Roman Empire is not the Holy Scriptures, that concept. So there was a world before the Roman Empire and consciousness beyond the Roman Empire, there were societies that were much more orderly, more advanced and that survived unlike the Roman Empire, one of the reasons for the destruction of the Roman Empire was this system of debt slavery, and this is the system in which an oligarchy would rather die than write off the debt. Everything can be lost, everything can be given up, but it can't be paid off, and that's true. So it's a system that's been perpetuated for 2,000 years by one and the same model, and it's a scary system, too creepy. Say in the Congo, do you know that the Congo, like the African state, has paid off the main debt nine times and is still in debt. In the last 30 years, 10 million people have starved to death in a country rich in resources, which I don't know, 100 times the size of Croatian territory. A country that, in its own time, has fallen from 18 million inhabitants to 3. From 18 to 3. It's possible in history, yes. It may be a little far for you, but it's actually not far, you get there in 12 hours by plane, maybe less. And that's something we should give up on, it's not something that just gives any dignity to not one country but humanity in general. What are these agencies that have come from outside where there are no Croats besides what they call purely for communication in Croatian, to carry out such terror over the Croatian population? Why do you write off your debts yourself when you see that someone can't pay them, here's a recent write off to the defenders of 700 million kuna, why don't you write off your debts to those same people who can't pay them, other social categories. And again, I'm going back to what's most important, so why can't officials afford to buy the debt under the same conditions as those agencies? If they can, so can the debtor. Nobody says you don't have to pay, no, we just say pay on equal terms because they're vultures, they're not people. These are people who are literally willing to destroy someone's life, destroying someone's health by causing someone's death to earn money that he doesn't need at all. They don't need it. How long does it take a man to eat, to sleep, to be warm, to be dressed, how long does it take? 1,000 euros, two, five? It's five, and it's too far and too far. And why do they have to get tens of billions of kunas out, what do they do with that money? What, are they eating it, taking it to the grave with them? You set this one example and it is true but I invite you to study other examples that are more positive, which are better, humane and more humane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142127	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Miroslav, Marko Šimic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142128	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with a co-worker, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. In the next few minutes, I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Debtants in Special Cases of Transfers, which is proposed by the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club. It is important to note immediately at the beginning of this debate that this legislative proposal was sent to the procedure in 2017 and that significant changes occurred in the Republic of Croatia. At first, I will say that entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstones of the modern market economy, as well as only the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, but both the EU and consumer incompetence and indifference are part of the economic reality, suggest an increasing number of over-indebted entities that are not able to repay their debt, so they are rarely threatened and existent. According to current data and available data for 2018, at the end of 2018, 264,751 citizens of this country were blocked in the Republic of Croatia. The debt of citizens amounted to HRK 17.62 billion. For the company, we will take in 2017, so a year before the concrete measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where the number of blocked were therefore 319 752 citizens, while the debt amounted to 42 billion 760 million kuna. If we combine this data, we can see that at the end of 2018, 55 thousand less blocked citizens in the Republic of Croatia, while their total debt amounted to 25 billion kuna. This is not to reduce the number of 264 thousand Croatian citizens who have been blocked, but I would like to note, however, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been dealing with this serious problem, that concrete solutions therefore sought to reduce this number with concrete models and reduce debt to credit agencies. I am sure that there is still space and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will in the future, therefore, seek solutions and models that will reduce that number and that will lead to my further debate. Today's operating conditions on this interesting market and frequent economic crises suggest the need for radical reform of consumer bankruptcy regulation, i.e. the need for consumer bankruptcy. More and more attention is being paid throughout the EU in the institute, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. The system of bankruptcy protection of consumers was at the top of the list of legal political priorities for judicial reform, leading to almost all EU Member States including Croatia starting projects for implementation. the functioning of consumer bankruptcy. In a fundamental act, therefore, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia was defined as saying, as a social state, as a social state, that Croatia has assumed on itself the obligation to ensure social rights or fundamental existential needs of its citizens. The role of the social state is to ensure civil law protection of debtors and taxpayers, and to allocate more evenly the burden of the crisis and the resulting losses. It is precisely with its activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is heading towards that goal. When it comes to issues in the field of providing financial services and the necessity of legal regulation of market operators, the EU Commission published in March 2018 a proposal for a directive that will regulate and encourage the development of a secondary market for non-income loans, including licensed supervision of persons buying out credit institutions' debts as well as persons dealing with the payment of sold loans. The action plan sets out a comprehensive approach aimed at combining complementary policy measures in 4 areas. And these are supervision and regulation of banks, reform of the restructuring framework, insolvency and debt recovery, development of secondary markets for asset-reduced assets and fostering restructuring of the banking system. The Ministry of Finance and the financial system supervisory authorities, such as HANFA and CNB, welcome the adoption of regulations aimed at regulating the supervision of the work of the requesting agency. The Government of the Republic of Croatia presented a package of measures in July and August 2018 to protect all stakeholders and debtors and creditors. It is the proposals of the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons, the implementation of the rule of law over money and the amendments to the Law on consumer bankruptcy, the content of which was subsequently implemented in the Executive Act. The main objectives of the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets entered into force on 4 August 2018 were to regulate the relationship between debtors and creditors, to increase the efficiency of the collection of claims and protection of creditors. In accordance with that law, the FINA has carried out the appropriate procedures for the termination of the treatment on the basis of payment for the perpetrators and the claims that comply with the legal requirements. On this legal basis, we must note that, in part or entirely, it has ceased to carry out the commission on the basis of payment grounds for 225 322 performers in the Republic of Croatia. As one of the measures for restructuring the economy i.e. The Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons who entered into force on 21 July 2018 has also been adopted to address the problem of blocked citizens' accounts in the long-term blockade. It envisioned the write-off of debts to citizens who blocked the state, units of local and regional self-government or legal persons associated with them. Also, Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic presented assistance measures blocked in amending the Consumer Banks Act aimed at simplifying and speeding up bankruptcy for citizens blocked for more than 3 years, whose debt does not exceed 20 thousand kuna. The decline in the number of blocked and disbursement effects was seen in the comparison of the data from 30 June and 30 September 2018, which found that up to 365 days the number of citizens covered by these debts was reduced by 8.7% and their debt decreased by 230, more than 230 million kuna. A major change occurred in older debts, so over 365 days where there was a decrease from 41.8 billion kuna to 17.1 billion kuna, which is more than 59% of the debt. The new Executive Act, as a European law model with an emphasis on respect for the dignity of the debtor, announces a reduction in the costs of the implementation, announces some new institutes, thus announcing and implementing the implementation of the implementation through the judicial system. It is also one of some of the proposed and discussed models where public notebooks would be detained as assistants in the process, the use of electronic communication, or comprehensive digitisation, would be the most important innovation in the modern process, the introduction of an electronic file in the performance would cost itself the process and reduce the court fees by about 50%. It is important to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is primarily seeking to reach a compromise between freedom of entrepreneurship on the one hand and social harmony on the other. The market system based on freedom of entrepreneurship is in itself the most efficient source of social well-being growth. Croatia as a social state advocates the right to a new financial start of insolvency individuals, the existence of a write-off model. The Croatian legal system and the legislative framework should be treated equally and protected not only by debtors but also by creditors and must not be forgotten by citizens who regularly comply with their obligations. Therefore, in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Legislatives of the HDZ Club will not and cannot support the adoption of such a bill. In fact, we give full support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, all stakeholders in this process, will come up with concrete measures that will continue to reduce the number of persons in charge, the number of persons blocked, so that they will enable measures to enable the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to live. And I've written down a few more things here that I'd like to mention, and maybe we haven't touched them so far in these discussions, there are things that need to be discussed here and extended the debate, and that's certainly the compensation of the FINA, so for the activities that she's been carrying out as a subject in this process. There is also a case of advances which the creditors are obliged to pay when they meet their requirements, submitting requests for the exercise of their rights at the FINA. These amounts and the simplification of this, the cheaping of this can also be discussed. It is also important to mention the structure of the debt, the structure of the debt is such that telecommunications, therefore, is the duty of 170 thousand debtors to legal persons serving telecommunications services in the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to note that in the last 3 or 4 years, we have led to young people in the Republic to raise housing loans at an interest rate lower than 3% and even below 3%. It is important to say that non-intentional loans in the Republic of Croatia today have interest of about 5%, car purchase loans and below 5%, while business loans are mostly below 2%. All this happened in the term of this government, all of this is, in fact, the result of one smart fiscal policy, good co-operation between the ministry, all the ministries in the Republic of Croatia, especially the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. And this problem, therefore blocked cannot be solved in any way in the way proposed by the Living Wall and the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, so one law, one single, single intervention into the system, because it would certainly violate the fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia and the fiscal policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia today. So I repeat once again, the HDZ Representatives' Club will not and cannot support such a single bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142129	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142130	Here, thank you very much, Mr. President. So in the moments we discuss here, the citizens are watching us and I would like to read just one message that I received 5 minutes ago: "Dear Mr. Bunjac, I have listened to your presentation in the Assembly right now about the collection agencies, they keep calling us, they've mentally destroyed me and my husband who is a Croatian volunteer without a job, he's 63 years old, I'm employed at four o'clock. We had an initial debt of 7 thousand kuna, currently over 20 thousand kuna, the EOS Matrix agency calls us every day, we don't know what to do anymore. They're threatening to get stuff out of our apartment. Please help us in some way, at least with advice because our receipts are monthly 2 thousand kunas, so imagine us for 10 years, there is nothing out of date, I have nothing to say but thank you for your pawning, you are our only hope.” Here, dear lady, you just heard from HDZ counsel that they are not interested in your concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142131	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142132	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I see that there is very little interest in this topic among you, but this does not mean that this topic does not matter because many people are upset about the way the debts are resold in Croatia. Our law that would regulate it is one of the greatest things because it makes life easier for many and here and how. One of the provisions we're looking for is that the debtor has the possibility of a first-time debt. That means if you're in debt to the bank 10 thousand kuna and the bank sells to the paying agency your debt for, say, 2000 kuna and then makes 10 with interest, probably these 10 as well, maybe the principal is much smaller than those 10, we're asking that for the same amount and that the man who's the debtor can buy out his debt and thus get rid of the debt. The bank is not at a loss, the bank is on the same track as it was, it sold for either 2000 or the debt collection agency or the debtor. However, one link in this chain would be lost and these are debt collection agencies. We don't have a problem with the agencies buying you out and ten grand in debt for five grand, so it means more, but then let it be allowed for five grand to buy out those who owe. In our society, however, I would call it the executive mafia, or people who profit from the performance, they do not want to allow debtors to get out of debt. No, the goal is, through the sale of debt, to mortify people in the long run, to pop out every lip out of their pockets, etc., etc. Since people often write to us on this subject, I found a similar, logical, and lifelike law to propose, we from the Living Wall because I don’t see any other way to help these people. Unfortunately, we are aware that HDZ will reject our bill. So the first thing our law would solve would give debtors the opportunity to buy first. Now we come to another part that I personally thought was very important. It says this: “In the event of the transfer of demand from an existing believer to a new believer, the new believer must not contact the debtor in the evening and night hours and during the holidays, contact the debtor at his workplace, contact the family members of the debtor regarding the demand, and if he is informed that the debtor has a valid authority to contact the debtor outside his proxies. So these are actually means on the one hand the Living Wall offers a concrete solution that facilitates people's debt problem. On the other hand, the Living Wall offers again a concrete solution to stopping the abuse of debtors. Unfortunately, we are also aware that this measure to save the debtor from harassing in the night, on weekends, in the workplace, through neighbors, friends, relatives, etc.... we are aware that HDZ will refuse that, too. And for this reason, I am now not talking to the HDZ gentlemen or the SDP gentlemen who unfortunately are not here today, but I am speaking to you voters that when the elections are, if you care that the debt collection agencies problem is resolved to support us. Secondly, I have nothing to say to you, I can only add that as long as this ruling majority is in a position your status will not change for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142133	Thank you. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic. He's not present. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's not present. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. The council now has as you know a break. We'll continue at 29.5 at 9.30. If there are any changes to the debate, you will get on time and the usual channels. Enjoy the rest of the day, cheers! The session was interrupted at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-10-0.u142134	Proposal for a Debt Protection Act in specific cases of transfer of demand, first reading, P.Z. No. 222, the promoter is the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The bill on protection of debtors in special cases of transfer of demand is not accepted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 12 abstentions and 8 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
