ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140518	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, we will begin today's work. Well the first point is as announced: - Final proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, second reading, P.Z. No. 558. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Christian Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140519	Honorable MPs, the Honorable Chairman. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Academy. This is a law governing the establishment of the academy and its bodies of management, activity, means of work, initial training and the question of the duration of professional training of trainees, advisers in judicial bodies and other officials in the field of justice, candidates for justice, duties and judicial officials. This law was first passed in 2009 2x was subsequently amended in 2010 and 2015. Since we have seen a series of changes in practice, we have proposed a new law. We believe that just for the sake of raising the quality of justice, this is a crucial part of the law that needs to be ensured that the Judicial Academy responds to the needs of the judiciary and that is why we have come out with a new law. We have seen that the perception of judicial independence in the EU is poor, and that is why we believe that one reason is also the quality of certain decisions, and just by raising quality, we believe and hope that we will contribute to the return of trust in the judiciary. What are the key papers of this law? So we have four key newspapers that we have introduced into the Law of the Judicial Academy. The first is that we have redefine the importance and role of the state school for judicial officials. We focused her on practical education and building a system of mentoring advisors in judicial bodies. What matters is we wanted to avoid the state school being a repeat judicial exam, we wanted the state school to be an upgrade and help counselors who enter the profession to be able to do their job on their own and to become judicial officials as soon as possible. Another important change is the change in the internal structure, we think that we have better defined the composition of the Administrative and Programme Council and strengthened the role of Director of the Judicial Academy. The third important change concerns preventing conflicts of interest through membership in the various bodies of the Academy. We have also included this measure in the action plan against corruption, and we have also put this measure into the national development strategy. It is therefore that we believe that the definition of the programme should be attended by those who have no interest, who do not implement the programme. What has been the practice so far has proved that the definition of the programme did not primarily address the interests of individual needs of judicial officials or the needs of the system or... The branches of law were already about the needs of some other interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we therefore believe that this provision will contribute most to raising the quality of the programme provided by the Judicial Academy. And the next thing that is important in this law, which we have proposed as amendments, is to extend to the Judicial Academy the part of its activities, to extend it to other categories, professional participants in the court procedure, so that it is not limited to judges and state lawyers, i.e. candidates, for those officials. What are the key changes now related to the State School for Judicial Officials? So, so far, after those changes that were made in 2015 in some way, the state school had lost its meaning and it had played a role, whether or not to keep the school, because when four generations were not enrolled, when the school was practically not working, it should have been seen how further. We decided to strengthen the school instead of shutting down the school. We think that quality is necessary to raise quality is necessary for people who enter the system, and these are after a judicial examination when passed, counselors, those advisors who achieve the best results and those people therefore, over a year, should be allowed through mentoring and through very practical work, to master the skills they need faster. And that's why we've changed the concept, in a way, that every counselor who enters the system has to implement it immediately, on entry, not after 10 years, when we already know everything in the state school. We also made sure that we respected those already in the system, so we left them the possibility, instead of going to school to pass the final exam or to decide not to go to school. But the key to which we have insisted on several provisions in the law is to make it clear that this is not about learning the theoretical knowledge of those already taught at the Faculty of Law or preparing a judicial examination. So we have insisted here in many places on the acquisition of practical knowledge and skills needed to do the job of counselors and future judicial officials. As for the internal structure and functioning of the judicial academy, what has proved to be often because of the obligations that judicial officials, who are members of the board, have in their regular affairs, have been difficult to achieve quorum, in order to ensure functioning, we have reduced the number of members, so that we have reduced the administrative council by two members, one Supreme Court judge, one deputy chief state attorney, has been left out. In this way, we have yet to introduce deputies, who can then, with the right to vote, participate in the work of the Governing Council, which we believe we have ensured the effectiveness of the work of the Governing Council. Compared to the program council, we added one member, we added a member from the Justice Department. Namely, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the functioning of the system, so the Ministry of Justice looks at the needs of the judiciary from the level of the system, not from an individual level, and in this respect the introduction of modern technologies, the raising of knowledge of European law, these are those issues in which the Ministry of Justice is extremely interested and only through participation in the programme council can ensure that such types of programmes are included in the judicial academy programme. As for the prevention of conflicts of interest, but also in general as regards the very way of creating the annual programme, these changes, we think that in the key changes made, therefore, we have made it clear in the law that three categories should be considered when the annual programme is defined. The first category, of course, is the individual needs, each judicial official, and there we have made it clear that every judicial official should be allowed, in real time, every day, to show his need, so that all these needs can be analysed and therefore, to decide which of the workshops will be included in the annual programme. However, it is also not only the individual level of importance in defining the programme, but I said, it is necessary to take care of the functioning of the system and that primary Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, but also other institutions, can show the need for certain educations to be conducted. And then we have third categories, these are certain types of legal areas, like civil criminal, labour, administrative, commercial, etc. We have made clear that all areas should be represented evenly. So far, practice has shown that certain areas have disproportionate representation, which was primarily criminal, which took up 50% of all workshops, and we know well that the criminal area actually crosses 25% of all cases in our judiciary. We also wanted to set a new direction for the Judicial Academy, not to be a reassurance of the laws that were passed in the Croatian Parliament, but to focus on skills, focus on other categories, so we also set out the parameters, where we said that workshops, which are related to material regulations, can take up a maximum of 40% of the programme. 30% of the program must be skills and 30 other types of workshops that include other actors in the trial. In relation to the issue of conflict of interest, so what we noticed was that the programme was brought about in a way that was not guided by these needs, and so we made it clear that those who participate in the definition of the programmes and workshops to be carried out should not be those who would carry it out so that they would not be burdened by teaching and then entering the programme. So we've told anyone who wants to be a member of the program and the legal council, they can teach but it has to work pro bono. We think this is one of the key provisions that should contribute to raising the quality of the Justice Academy program. Finally, we think it is very important to point out the expansion of the activity, so in a court procedure other than the need to raise the quality of judges, state lawyers, deputy state attorneys, advisers, we have a number of other actors whose quality is also extremely important for the quality of the court procedure, these are experts, those are appraisers, etc., so that we, bankruptcy managers, have decided to enable the judicial academy and ask that it be included in the education of these professions. In order to ensure that the quality of the performance, we felt that it was important that the quality of the programme as it was carried out depends on the quality of those who perform it and that this evaluation of the participants in the workshops would make sense, we decided that all these evaluations would be made public on the websites of the Judicial Academy and that the basis of this would be to decide who and next year will have the right to participate in teaching, in this way we hope that the judges who will participate, or the judicial official who will participate, will participate in the evaluation in a much more serious way, so that not all lecturers will be excellent, but that this will be seen by those who do really great work and those who may not need to participate in the implementation of the programme. Here are the most important changes and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140520	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing the Judicial Academy, and when a man looks at the two days of the agenda we had, he wonders where they are and why we don't solve the most important problems in the Republic. So two days of Parliament we get Mikulic's laws first yesterday and today we're discussing a judicial academy that is important but it's much more important and tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, how exactly will this law solve one of the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia, which is the judiciary, legal uncertainty, our people who do not trust that there will be justice when they find themselves in a situation that requires it? So when we see Sanader, Vidosevic, HDZ officials, we see that for 10 years and more years there is no justice, and when citizens of ordinary people need to be sanctioned, then unfortunately, the judiciary is very fast and most often very effectively not for the benefit of the citizens but for the benefit of those who sued them. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140522	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140523	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Turkalj, you also mentioned in your presentation something that we had the opportunity to see, which is that our judiciary is at the lowest possible level, the way the EU perceives us but you also spoke quite extensively about what you value to make it better in this law. What you could see there was a series of formal things. I think, and I'm absolutely sure that people need to have lifelong education because things are changing, and equally, people who are both in the judiciary and who are in the judicial system, the same way that public administration needs to have the possibility of lifelong education, but you're talking about form, I'm interested in content, I'm curious that maybe once again you'll repeat one or two things that you appreciate that will be relevant in these laws, that more, actually, we're not allowed to be when it comes to justice at the bottom, but to show us at least some little shift, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140524	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140525	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, this law, the Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, you have not said what it will bring, will bring, increase the confidence of Croatian citizens in early cancer, and that is Croatian society and that is the judiciary. How much will that have to do with it? Will the crimes that have been committed be solved, yesterday I was in Borovo Selo, which in this regard will this academy extort, will that scream be resolved and the cry of Vukovar and the dead here yesterday, the police officers and their families? Of course not. Where are these reforms that will give security to our citizens on the issue of justice except that you have extinguished certain courts where they have traditionally been like in my Sinj, what have you done and what will this academy bring to justice to gain trust from our citizens? Absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140526	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Cynthia Varge.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, for 12 years I worked as a permanent court expert and we must admit that the trainees who came to court had an average knowledge of judicial proceedings in municipal and county courts. My question is whether you will have any cooperation through the Academy with primary education for bacalaureate or for all the colleges of law schools in the Republic of Croatia, because what is produced from the colleges themselves is unworthy of work and the academy cannot replace that segment, I think that you should be a primary education at a much higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140528	Thank you very much. I see my colleague Bulj has raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140529	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club, I would like to request a 10-minute break from the club, and we are all really analyzing the situation in the judiciary as a key driver for the development of the Republic of Croatia, where the biggest mistrust of people is right in the judiciary. That these laws bring something good to the judiciary and that problems will be solved in Croatia, that fewer cases will last in courts, whether they will go into obsolescence for those who should not go into obsolescence. Brake of development of the Republic of Croatia and mistrust in the judiciary. I repeat, yesterday I was in Borov Selo, an anniversary of the murder, the masculine murder of 12 Serb police officers. The criminals are still walking in Croatia. These carnivores, the Chetniks, who were catacly killed by 12 Croatian directors. Is that Croatian justice? It is not the judiciary of the Croatian tears of the President of the Republic, nor the interior minister who says our judiciary is doing its job. Don't do your job. Don't do your job. We're talking about who knows who. We prefer the Vucic who comes to Croatia not to solve the problem of our missing. That our families from the missing in Serbia must pay them their costs, not our state in the judicial struggle in Serbia for their rights and their compensations. Is that the Croatian judiciary? We must immediately restore our trust in the judiciary. Until it is, believe me, it is now empty two-thirds of Croatia, it will be even more empty It's corruption and crime within the judiciary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140530	Thank you very much. Of course I'll approve the break, so I'll see you in 10 and 3 minutes. It's 09.52 hours. We're running out of time. Are the Committee rapporteurs going to take the floor? [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.04 HOURS]] No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the rights on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the honourable representative, Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140532	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to sum up briefly on the bill's proposal, although the secretary of state, has quite detailedly reported on the bill. I would just point out that this bill is, in fact, one of the last in the very set of laws that we had in the framework of judicial reform, and also regarding these replicas, which we had before the break, which we see to point out is what is actually present in our society, which is a dissatisfaction with the situation in the judiciary, I have to say, that if we start from that, that lifelong learning, something that we all need, which we all need to strive about, then we must also accept and that this proposal is a law, which goes towards lifelong learning and professional training of judicial officials, is also a good measure, which goes towards this goal, and that in the whole system, most importantly, man, its expertise, its qualifications, so I think that this bill should also be contributed to a better situation today in justice. Although this situation is as public perception is in a state of justice which is quite negative at the moment, it stems from other circumstances that we have. Short of the law itself, the Law on the Judicial Academy was passed in 2009. and entered into force in 1.1.2010, the Judicial Academy was established as a special public institution, which organises and implements the initial training of candidates for judicial officials, then professional training of trainees and advisers in judicial bodies, and continued professional training of judicial officials. The relevant amendments to the DSV Act and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office in 2009 as a condition for the appointment of judges in the courts of the first pillar, respectively, Deputy State Lawyers, in the Municipal State's Attorney's Office, are prescribed for completion, State School, and the decision of the DSV or... on the appointment, it had to be based on the final assessment of the state school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law has been since 2009. to date, however, the 2010-2015 amendments have been made, because of the situation which has shown that certain changes are necessary at this time, so this proposal of the law, which proposes to prescribe the obligation to place and attend a public school and to pass a final exam at a state school, enables all persons admitted indefinitely, to place advisers in judicial bodies, for a period of one year, advisers, who are found in judicial bodies, on the day of entry into force of this law, to choose, so that they will be able to either attend a school or just take a final exam, or may decide not to decide on either option, or not to attend school. As far as this bill is concerned, it also improves the constitution of continued professional training of judicial officials, which I think is really good, if we have in mind, that we should all strive in all professions, as well as in this profession a continuous, continuous professional training, given, and especially in the right where we have, therefore, continuous change of the judicial framework, the law so that it is safe to carry out professional training through the school of state administration and through workshops, so that all those involved in the judicial apparatus are given time and in a professional manner of reasoning and in fact guidance, both in their daily activities, as best as possible to implement the rules. There is also a proposal for a change in the structure of the management of the judicial academy, which the secretary of state said something about, in a way that reduces the number of members of the board of directors, all for the benefit of the programmes being as high as possible, so the number is actually proposed, and I think that this is one of the good changes. Here, colleagues from the Bridge who today in replicas have, in fact, questioned this bill, believing that the judicial academy, as such, will not win results and will not contribute to the quality of officials and their work within the justice system, hence improving, the very effect of all those involved in the work within the judicial body, and then the perceptions of the results of the society itself on the judicial apparatus. I personally believe that everything, as well as the judicial academy, especially which should actually work in a way, that people are constantly perfected that they simply get all the practice and knowledge in time, and the way in which they act within their daily activities, can contribute to a better judicial apparatus, but I also believe that solving all judicial problems cannot solve only the Judicial Academy. The MOST colleagues announced while they were in the government reform of the judiciary with 10 laws, at the end of it we didn't see much, but here this government has implemented a mini judicial reform and this bill is also part of this mini judicial reform and I believe that as part of that, it will also contribute to this work. The HDZ advocates' club will support this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140533	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Marko Sladolev will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, in general saying the Final Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy has its own meaning and potential but there are also several shortcomings which are technical, which are process-organising, which are of a substance nature and would ask the Proposer to closely monitor the debate because we have constructive proposals and we will also add amendments. A clearer arrangement of training in the preparation and training of judicial officials and officials is necessary but this is unfortunately not achieved by the text of the final draft law. In Article 3(3) and Article 14(5), paragraph 5 is mutually non-compliant, or we propose that Article 14(5) be deleted and that the word ‘Governmental Council’ is inserted after the word ‘Croatian’ in order for the law to be clearer, more focused and normotechnically regulated, since such a proposal regulates the acquisition, loading or alienation of property and other property, or the conclusion of another legal transaction if the value of the contract or other legal transaction exceeds the amount set out in the statute. As regards Article 9(1), which is governed by two members of the Board of Directors of the University of Legal Sciences, name and resolve the deans of the Faculty of Law, we propose to amend that item and read: “Member of the Board of Directors of the University of Legal Sciences shall appoint and resolve the Deans of Law in such a way as to consider the elected member who received at least 50 votes from all the Deans of Law who voted at the invitation of the Academy.” This is therefore because it is not defined in what way the Deans appoint and resolve a member of the Governing Council, which is a consequence if the different deans are appointed by different persons and what if some of the deans later adopt a solution on the resolution of the appointed member. As long as the other deans don't support it, there's more to the misunderstanding situation. It is unclear and without a good explanation why Article 16(2) states that the leaders of the judicial authorities may not be members of the programming council when just the leaders of the judicial authorities are obliged to monitor the need for professional training of judges in their courts and to monitor the movement of the number of types of cases and to monitor the need for professional training of judges and advisers through the head of the department within the courts. We therefore propose that paragraph 2 of this article be deleted as excessive, moreover as potentially harmful and certainly restrictive. Compared to Article 19, such an arrangement has in practice proved to be very problematic and to be morally very debated in most of the judicial system. According to this article, the members of the programme council shall be entitled to work compensation and compensation for the material costs incurred in carrying out the tasks for the academy at the height of which the decision determines the administrative council. In principle, we have no objection to working with wages and wages, but unfortunately practice shows that some judicial officials abuse their working hours for which they are paid on a regular basis and within that working time prepare for example. These materials are being taught and are being paid additionally. So they're double-paid for that kind of work and we see from the public data that some of those officials are mostly judges, they have incomes a year like the entire one-year salary of a first-degree judge. We believe that mechanisms should be developed for all and so should the programme council on which they will not be entitled to this day when they work within the programme council, at the same time have the right to both pay and to compensation for this type of work because it is a violation of the state budget and to encourage judicial officials to take immoral advantage of working time in which they should handle judicial cases and carry out other judicial tasks. We therefore propose that this Article 19 be amended and read: “The members of the Programme Council shall be entitled to compensation for the material costs incurred in the performance of the jobs for the Academy and the amount of work decided by the Board of Directors only if the work was outside of the regular office time of the body in which the member of the Programme Council is employed. ” As far as Article 21 is concerned, we have a normotechnical but also a substantive remark. This article states: “Employees admitted to the state service indefinitely and deployed to the position of advisers in the judicial body, the bonds are the students of the school.” However, the article and the legal text does not say what is with senior judicial advisers or court advisers-specialists. Neither in this article nor in the transitional and final provisions, in Article 44 where it is said that persons who are assigned to the position of advisers in judicial bodies who do not have completed their exam at school on the day of entry into force of this law are not obliged to attend school. We remind you that according to Article 109 of the applicable Law on Courts, the court may have judicial advisers, several judicial advisers and several judicial advisers-species. This proposal does not use the same terminology at all, and therefore, in practice, there will be confusion and confusion as to whether senior court advisers and possibly later judicial consultants, who have not yet been able to attend school or to approach the final exam in accordance with the provisions of this law. Such failure and ambiguity must not be left in the final draft of the law. Already, judicial advisers throughout Croatia have been alarmed about this issue because the ambiguity is such a character. These articles should be more clearly defined, if nothing, by means of a provision for judicial advisers, senior judicial advisers and judicial advisers-specialists to resolve all dilemmas and proposed in the text, Article. 21 behind the words of the counselor, put the words and senior court advisor or court counsellor-special in the further text common name advisers. We also have an objection to the article. Article 23(2) and Article 3 of the final proposal. Namely, although it is in art. 23.St. 2.St. 3 determines that mentors can be appointed by judicial officials who are mentors' education at the academy and the rules on the manner of the school's mentors, we hold that the final proposal of the law should define who is who will be mentor and who determines who will be mentor. There is no word in this entire legal text and there is a danger of sending inadequate people to education. We believe that such persons should be appointed from the ranks of persons who have shown a tendency to transfer the skills necessary for the work of a judicial officer for those who have shown quality to their work results. We therefore propose that in Article 2 of the amendments, the proposal for a person who will be a mentor is delivered to the Academy by the President of the Court of Justice from the ranks of judicial officials who, in their previous work, have shown a tendency to transfer knowledge and skills necessary for the work of a judicial official and who, with their work results, have shown quality and have completed the education for mentors at the academy. Art. 32 is overly and unaccounted for where a potential proposer of the subject of professional training is unnecessarily acting in two paragraphs, regardless of the fact that one of them highlights the possibility of a continuous proposal, and to the judicial authorities in the DSV and the State Council of the Ministry of Justice and other interested authorities only an undefined term... proposals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the text of the argument, it is not explained by the basis of what happened to structure in such a way that legal matter within the annual program of professional training is represented with 40% interdisciplinary theme, with 30% and strengthening social and practical skills with 30%. We believe that the proposer should be clearly determined by the basis of what and what figures the assessment of this kind of structure has come up with. The club of the Independent Lists believes that these amendments to the law are necessary but that, therefore, they are not clearly defined, I hope that you will accept our amendments and our constructive debate. The MOST had an overall judicial reform which, unfortunately, the ruling majority had rejected in this HS, which was the only political party that had made the entire judicial reform. This debate is also a contribution to our judicial resolution, here, I hope you will accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140535	Thank you very much. A colleague of Maras raised his hand. I guess he wants a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult on this law that seems to solve certain matters, but in the judiciary, it's not going to solve anything. Especially when we see how this government works, how it refers to the judiciary, how it refers to the resources and resources that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry have, because when we see the shameful way in which Andrija Mikulić and HDZ refer to the equipment that was in the inspectorate building in Šubićeva, where they threw out all the old chairs so that the new furniture and new leather chairs for Mikulić would arrive, then it is not clear to us that we can take this Justice Academy and all these changes seriously. When HDZ, here, put a guard in order not to accidentally take away any old chair that Mikulić can't sit on because it's probably not from the skin, not from 1500, 2000 thousand kuna chaires, I should now believe that we in the SDP Representatives' Club will believe that this law, that the Judicial Academy will contribute to this and to the amendments to this law, to the judiciary and that the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be correct. This government doesn't work, this laptop works better than those in the government, and on that side, when we see what the relationship is, the boast of this government, we don't believe that this law, with this law, is going to change anything. So look where the HDZ candidates are, where is Sokol, where is Mrs. Sokol? A head? Candidates for whom citizens pay to sit [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] in this HS and the water debates are who knows where [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Maras.]] in the field, it's a shame. [[/Intruder: You've exceeded your time. You said yours.]] It's a shame the assembly's empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140537	Comrade Maras, you are being warned because you have exceeded your time. Of course I'll give you a break, I'll see you again in 10 and 45 minutes. [[It's 10.25 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS]] Here's a colleague and a colleague, the break is up, so we'll continue, and now individually, we'll go to individual debates, the first one will speak to the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, after the break and after the discussion that we had about the judicial academy and all that is related to it, it is normal that in the Republic all those who want justice, that institutions function better, have the need and support certain changes that go in this direction. However, it is not clear to us, and it would be good to have the same explanation and suggestions, how can you take the same thing twice in one situation? So if you're going to pass a judicial exam, then go back to the academy, so it's even possible to take the same thing twice and go twice. But well, these are things that can technically be removed relatively easily. What bothers Croatian citizens more is the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia. So, no amendment to the Law on the Judicial Academy will contribute to the quality of justice in the Republic of Croatia, will help the government to do its job more correctly, will not contribute to the fact that we have processes that last for 10 and more years, so it is no shame that, for example, certain former HDZ ministers and presidents of the government, the processes last, here for Sanader, now the president of the HDZ former Sanader, ended up in prison with a judicial verdict, or he can still complain about the Supreme Court, which is greater than 5 years, so he went to serve his sentence after more than 10 years. Vidosevic, also the other HDZ, has not yet been in sight, we have seen his trophies, hunting bears, muflons, etc. which he accumulated in his house, but nothing happens. That's what hurts people in the Republic of Croatia and that's what bothers people in the Republic of Croatia, and that's why people, our citizens and fellow citizens from the Republic go to other countries where justice, honesty, there's more than there is in us. Until that changes, we can change the laws, we can coordinate the judicial academy in one way or another, but there won't be any results. I must also point out that when we see examples of daily injustice, haughtiness, infatuation, irrational spending of public money, such as the example of Andrija Mikulić and HDZ, in this inspectorate. Who tells us he's at the judicial academy won't be the same? The government, after which we changed the 30th law, established an institution where now employs 500 new people, equipment of the building in Šubićovo with the most modern equipment, furniture, new chairs, chairs etc., to throw out the old ones because they cannot sit Andrija Mikulić and his colleagues and colleagues in the old chairs, should take new leather chairs and that is why our people do not believe in justice and the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia because they see HDZ ruling relations with it. As they refer to those they represent, who should be represented, who should feel that justice in the Republic of Croatia is worth it. Please, turn around, look around and see how many colleagues and colleagues are from HDZ, I don't see them for days on the campaign, I see representatives of the SDP who are in the campaign for European elections, myself, fellow Matic, colleague Rank Ostojić, Roman Jerkovic, but I don't see Sokola and Sunčana Glavak, for days I've seen them, and here, my colleague Bulj, was Beljak there just now, Anka Mrak Taritaš, but HDZs who don't care about justice and honesty that claim that pensions in the Republic are excellent, my colleague Sokol quotes from the current hour, pensions in Croatia by fellow Sokol, candidate on the EU HDZ list are excellent. They haven't been here for days, blue, green RH, I don't know what kind of teams they have, but they don't do the work for which citizens chose them here. And then she'll come to me and tell me that I'm doing something that's wrong and wrong. How come you're not ashamed? As a result, people have no sense of justice and therefore no law that we pass with regard to both the judicial academy and anything else related to the judiciary will restore the faith that our citizens will finally feel the grain of justice in the Republic of Croatia. The only way I can feel it is if things change, that now we see that there are no people here, but that they're committed to campaigns, and the taxpayers pay them to represent them, not the Glavak, not the Falcon, they're gone, and they pay them. Is Maras crazy about what's here right now and doing his job? Is that a problem? Should we not have anyone in the assembly and operate in this way? Is that normal? Of course not, of course people should be doing the work that the citizens here have chosen for and put on a different agenda for the European elections, as long as the Parliament is sitting. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm not in the campaign, on the ground blue, green Croatia. That's why I do what the citizens here chose me to do and how they chose me. And once again I'm going to say, what's going on is, in my opinion, something inadmissible. People with regard to our judiciary, have neither faith nor trust, nor think that something good will change, nor think that Minister Bosnjakovic has made a move in the past two years, given that the whole society is slipping in the wrong direction. And when people come after a long ten-year process, I'm talking about influential HDZs watching them slip into another country. So people laugh at us, when you see the mayor of Zagreb saying it's a more important qualification, do you know whose daughter she is than if you know what qualifications she has and what she can do. So what kind of society we are, and how does it all work together, and why we don't try together and make sure that these things don't go away in Croatia anymore and that we really start to advocate that this government is starting to do something for Croatian citizens, to start working on, that pensioners have bigger pensions. The embarrassing statement by Sokola, e Sokole, is for retirement, this, that pension in Croatia, that pensions in Croatia are good. It is a shameful statement and I am sorry that it is simple, in this way anyone can perform in the Croatian Parliament at all. And to conclude, around the judicial academy, once again, it is very important to build strong insinuations, produce personnel, which will be able to respond to the moment, unfortunately, Croatia is in a very bad situation, the judiciary is assessed very badly both by citizens and by international insinuation, dueing business, from other countries in the EU, so the judiciary is one of the cancers of our society's wounds. And if we fail to change that, if we fail to restore the faith of our citizens to justice, in justice, we will find it difficult to have any chance, that our society can generally be better, and that is, to stop the eviction, which is, believe me, driven, now even less, by the lack of work, because maybe the job can be found, but the wages are low, too low, compared to what is in the EU and justice and the sense of equality, that is, equal opportunities for all in Croatia. As long as we don't have equal chances for everyone in Croatia, that they have the opportunity to build their lives here, build their careers, people will go away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140540	Thank you. The next individual, we have one replica, the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were saying that people don't trust the Croatian judiciary and that's true. And it's not just the slow court proceedings, procedural mistakes, statutes, etc. It's also the behavior of certain judges. Certain judges rarely drink coffee with just the main indictees in Croatian society and in this way, with their behavior and mock all citizens and then say, it is my friend, I will not give him up. Now, as interesting as it is, in Croatia it is precisely those against whom huge processes are being conducted at the Jumping Courts that have very many friends at the Jumping Courts. Now what kind of message they send to Croatian citizens, their conduct, is what I'm interested in, among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140542	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140543	They send a message that results in people leaving Croatia. So why do the people of Croatia leave us? Not because it's wonderful here, not because they have the feeling that they can succeed, no matter what their name is and how they've been educated and how they've tried and how hard they've tried, but the whole system is set up in a way that's important to be part of, I've called it the art cults, which you're then pushing where you're supposed to be. And you can see it in plastic on an example of an inspectorate where there are now 5 hundred new people, imagine that. Five hundred new people are hiring HDZ, terrible, terrible. It's probably one of the criteria for having a party card. It's normal for people to run away from it and not want to be part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140544	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the Law on the Judicial Academy, i.e. on Amendments and New Organization. What I want to point out is that the Law on the Judicial Academy was passed in 2009. It came into force in early 2010, and let's say that now we have a decade behind us of the functioning of the judicial academy. What marks her is that she has not fully justified her work, that, that people are not satisfied and the profession is not satisfied with her work so far. And that's why we approach these changes that should now improve the work of the Judicial Academy. However, it is not only the legal norm that marked the dissatisfaction with the work, the Judicial Academy, but that mirror and the overall pictures of the Croatian judiciary and, respectively, the view of Croatian citizens to the judiciary in Croatian society. So, as has already been said here, citizens do not trust the Croatian judiciary and therefore, there are many, many reasons why so. I will say that the judiciary is by me and the biggest problem of Croatian society and what we are experiencing from this government is, a few cosmetic changes from time to time and there is no deep reform of the Croatian judiciary and it is lagging behind in recent years by this government. So often laws come before us like this where there are certain cosmetic changes, so we had changes where there are going to be a court, so the courts come together every couple of years, and then they're separated, and then it's called a major reform of the judiciary, and the fundamental ones that would improve the efficiency of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, there's no. And it's gone, I don't know if that's why the lack of vision of this government and the lack of vision of the Ministry of Justice or what this government and the answer is, because every day we look at a number of people who are corrupt, who have done certain criminal acts or suspected of certain criminal acts, that the processes against them have been going on for a decade, that they're getting too old in these processes, and then people lose trust, and on the other hand, the processes against, let's say, a small man, people who are accused of small things, end very quickly, we witness infrequent examples where little people are exactly responding, let's say, big fish go missing or laughing at us from neighbouring BiH. These are all the things that tear down the picture of the situation in Croatian society, so the young people leave, you HDZ colleagues laugh, but here, how it works on people every day when we watch Robert Jezic's testimony, you wave at his colleague Boric there, every day Robert Jezic tells you he gave you money, how he gave money to your party, how you sat in the government that won the stolen money of Croatian citizens through the Fimi Media, so there was money being stolen there, volunteers were paid for the money that was drawn from Croatian companies, in the elections you received from stolen money, I will once again say it, which is why HDZ and has been tried for a decade before Croatian courts, these processes are repeated due to procedural mistakes, the money that was stolen from you. You rule the Republic of Croatia, to sit in the ministries, to be state secretary, to be ministers, etc. And that's what ruins people's trust in both the judiciary and this society and what's best after 8 years. You're laughing at it, and here you are today when you're talking about it because you know that no one is going to answer for it, that none of you are going to answer for it, you've put it all on Dr. The Eve you all swore to was your beloved president, your beloved leader, you've all called him, and today you're all washed from him, no one has anything to do with it. Here, it just fell off the ground, it's embarrassing to watch Mr. Jezić's testimony, your former member and other HDZs every day telling us that money was being pulled out, to whom dinners were being paid, whose sons-in-laws had a luxurious life in America at the expense of Croatian citizens, etc. Now, these are things that break down trust in the judiciary and no law on the judicial academy, nor will they call reforms restore the trust of Croatian citizens, nor will the citizens stop leaving the Republic of Croatia as long as that is the case. And that's why the Republic of Croatia needs a fundamental reform of justice, and not this, which you're doing here, these are the things to talk about here, and the Republic of Croatia with this behavior is giving away a picture of a deeply unfair country, and unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is deeply unfair, and as long as that is the case, citizens will leave this country, and you HDZ colleagues just keep smiling, here's so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140546	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. She's the first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140547	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Djujic, you were in the first part of the debate, and I'm going to refer to it a little bit, about having a law that's 10 years old. and after 10 years. that you should also see some results. Likewise, the State Secretary of Replications, which the MPs gave, decided not to answer, so I assume that in the final unify it all together. What I was interested in, I was curious about what the content of this law is changing to make it possible, in fact, to make certain things possible, because formally we see, there are some frameworks, but what matters is content, and you and I see that our judiciary is on the lowest possible branches, that our citizens do not trust in the judiciary. As long as our citizens will be on, the pictures that will be in the judiciary will be syncope or those unfortunate bear dogs that have been closed, not closed, it's a bad picture of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, and also outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140548	Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140549	Well, unfortunately, these substantive changes don't come. So, all these calls for changes that we have are essentially technical, and if word is made about the shortcomings of the Croatian judiciary or are being appealed to which the substantive changes should be, then in the first order and from the judges and the people of the judiciary themselves come screaming, I will say, that is, politicization of the judiciary, politics interferes in the judiciary, there is a trio of the authorities, they should be independent and no one should talk about it, and on the other hand we see that a large number and judges of Croatian and how it deals with politics and implements politics, and as long as that is the case, there will be no substantive changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140550	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140551	Thank you very much, dear colleague vice president, colleague and colleague. Mr. Djujic, I'd like to tell you one thing, which is that you have rightly noticed that HDZ has not yet returned more than 30 million kunas stolen or about 30 million kunas stolen, stolen from Fimi Media. And it's funny that we have a HRT that bothers this sticker, every time I've said it today, they're doing it so it can't be seen, this laptop works better than the ones in the government, so isn't that the bottom, the censorship and what HRT colleagues and colleagues do, isn't it a shame what editors and Plenkovic do on HRT do, I'm just curious how they cut it now, here's if you can cut it now on HRT?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140552	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140553	And that's how fellow Maras, as long as the problem is a laptop and not millions stolen from Croatian citizens until then, our picture in society will be as it is. I would be happy that the biggest problem of Croatian society is one laptop in the assembly and that the removal of that laptop would solve all problems but unfortunately that is not the case and we both know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140554	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140555	Thank you, Vice President. Coli Djujic, I agree with you that a complete reform of the judiciary is needed to restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system and the judiciary should be outside of politics or deprived of the influence of politics, but unfortunately that is not the case in Croatia. So here, for example, the network of courts decided that, for example, the town of Nova Gradiška did not get a municipal court, although the lab said they were successful, that they had enough personnel, judges and other staff, that they had equipment, space and that they were doing well. But even though a municipal court was promised in Novi Gradiška, no, we didn't get it but just a permanent service and something is mentioned to shut it down. And some smaller cities have won. And the reform comes first of all with a man, with judges, if you don't work with them, if you don't give them wages and equipment, they won't even work. And if they don't have to have an estate card there already there's room for some other activities. So please why is it so in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140556	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140557	Well, that's what I was saying to my colleague Vlaovic, so the cosmetic changes that determine which court is going to be where, whether something will connect, whether something will separate without real reform, but unfortunately, you've noticed well and there's a policy present. And there is no policy present only in determining which place the court will have and who is in power in that place where the court will remain, where it will be shut down. It is also determined on the matter of hospitals, in terms of maternity care, in terms of schools, in terms of mail. So in Croatia politics determines which place the post office will be, in which it will not. And that's the problem because politics gets mixed up in everything and there's no such thing as professional analysis and justification or looking at the interest of the citizens that should be there. In one small place, shut down the post office, shut down the bank, shut down that place, and I won't even talk about the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140558	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140559	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Djujic, you mentioned the actual reforms in your now, in your debate and what I think is important to say that your view of reforms is different from seeing the current government and it seems to me to be HDZ. You consider reform something essential, so content, so something that must bring new quality. And you see, this government is looking at reform quite differently. They said they would reduce the number of agencies and thus have less costs. On the other hand, they went to a major inspectorate reform. And what did they get? They have received a large inspectorate where they will now make a major reform, where they will have a chief state inspector and four assistants and countless jobs where they will arrest their people. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140560	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140561	Yeah, that's right. For me, reform would be for example. give time to the judges when they have to solve the files. There can't be a judge with hundreds of files in his drawer and no sanctions. On the other hand, his colleague speedily resolves it. Furthermore, there can be no different judgments in the same processes. Someone can't get 2.3 processes and fall to some top-notch instance, they can't give their property to the citizens, etc. So these are all some things that are a problem that if people are missing people but can't be done without sanctions in court and no one else can do anything. And then we have processes that last for 10 years, then we have full procedures, destruction of the rights of those who essentially have made a huge injustice, etc. That's all you have to do to make that system work. And these are fundamental changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140562	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the next individual debate and that's the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140563	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary with his associates. This Amendment to the Law on the Judicial Academy is essentially an amendment that will not solve problems in the burning cancer of Croatian society, which is the judiciary. Neither will the judicial process accelerate, the number of cases will be reduced, those who need to go into obsolescence will leave. So at this point, we are talking about the law, whether it will be from the state's attorney's office someone in the Justice Academy council, whether some minor things will be resolved, but when we talk about justice, our citizens know they don't trust the judiciary, our businessmen don't trust the judiciary anymore, no one has trust in the judiciary and the key problem in the Republic of Croatia and the burning problem and the underlying problem is bad, catastrophic justice. The colleagues here talked about Lex Andrija Mikulić, of course, that's very important to HDZ, 500 of these new employees are still implying it is somewhere around 10 thousand votes, it's 500 new volunteers and they are watching their reform through that they have a number of voters and that's what the system is and, of course, it's necessary, the identity card is whether, the HNS or the HDZ card, as was the case in Krka National Park, where Ms. Mijanović, who has a doctorate is adequate, means professional education and for two years she was a Croatian defender in the Homeland War on the first line of defense and she proved herself brave in a reconnaissance unit, but it was not enough for her to be elected to be a National Park Krka, and she was elected, of course, a natural person who has 2 IDs, one of HNS and one HDZ. So it will be in this case, so the public is aware of it and it will be one large number of buses, volunteers, who will now be in the campaigns, the current next minute. Of course, what is expected of agriculture, justice pardons are expected, to guarantee the safety of citizens. However, that security does not feel. We now have a question to ask, what the judiciary has solved. So this is how when I'm fed up with certain affairs, which are unsolved, we see, I'm going to start with a Cetin End defense weapon, I've four times raised criminal charges, that money, which was meant for an earthquake in Sinj from '89. The year, re-purposed for the purchase of arms, a billion and a half kuna, a pardon, a million and a half marks then, by some calculations, is now 17 million euros. That money ended up in private pockets and was never returned. I've raised a criminal application four times, and now they're respected businessmen, now they have large groups and run the Croatian system, while at the beginning of the Homeland War we were in rebatins, poorly armed, we had to defend in the area of Vrlika, Kiev, and that money is now unsolved. Four times I've filed a criminal charges, not once for weapons. Then I watch, I start at my end, what about the Dalmatian affair? What about the auto transport affair? What about the Jujuplasty affair? What about the affair of the Split Ironworks? What about the affair constructor? What about the affair... What about the Viaduct affair? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the affair, and that's why today is not why our companies that were recognizable in construction, who worked all over the world, are not doing our bridge of Pelješki, but the Peljeski bridge, of course, are working by the Chinese. Today's and every gram of iron will not be from Croatia, nor grams, but will be of course from China, so you've done everything you can to make sure that the Croatian man doesn't have to survive in this area and I have to remember and fear the tunnel. Here... our highways, while the Split iron mill was being built, and now the gram of iron did not invest from the Croatian hardware store in Croatian highways, when the iron mill fought for survival. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the area, here we go, not so on the other side, here's Sisak Moslavina County, see what's up with INA, what's with the INA affair? Where are the billions of them released? What about our iron mammal, who could also, in the investments this government boasts, what about it, why? The target was destroyed, so everything that was meant to be destroyed. Of course there are also very important import lobbys, to help and through the judiciary with these import lobbys. So today we can't have a good price for a vervain strawberry, but we're importing Spain that probably didn't see the country either, but say who knows from what and what way and one is better to see it, one dozen times higher, but there's no smell, there's no taste, and the question is what kind of strawberry we're introducing, while our sea, our Vrgorcani sell, at miserable prices and what a disaster. We have this affair of Croatian roads 25 million kuna, HEP 630 affair, affair... 400 million, Mediko 331 million affair HZ 200 million, HPB 245 million affair, INA 2 billion affair, Đakovština 27 million affair, we have the meaning of licking the affair 17 million, sunny Hvar 572 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the meaning of Slavonska Banka 150 million, the Brodosplit affair 25 million plus the funds spent in shipbuilding, unintendedly, according to the auditor, it's billions of kuna. So the Imostroy affair, the affair means we're having an affair, you could count now, here I have, that's one part of the smaller one I took out, an affair like Gaženica, the affair is why Croatia doesn't have a gram of gold. I don't know, we could be out of these 17 sand bridges working, having a hardware store, just out of this money. Which means the current judiciary wasn't doing its job. I can't figure out who got the right to sell gold in the CNB and it's 15 tons. For people to understand, it's a gold picker. And now Croatia currently has no gram of gold in this environment. That's a fact. Who gave someone the right to sell gold, our fortune? We have 2/3 of Croatia for that empty. If we were going to Vukovar County, yesterday I was... As far as justice is concerned, you will solve the criminals, who are walking through Vukovar, and if you hear the cry of the Vukovar, their victims, not the false tears, which the president played yesterday, who received here, to mock all the victims of the dead, who did not apologize for those calls and the mutilation of the people of Serbian nationality in Glina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What did the judiciary do? That no one protects our people in Serbia, nor our families, our missing, dead, but even the natural person of Serbian nationality, from Serbia, must pay the costs to the families of the missing and the dead Croatian defenders. Every year, the same is spoken in Borovo, Vukovar, unfortunately, and receive here a Chetnik Vukic, who will mock us here, Chetnik, I repeat, who has been hoarding this Serbian poor woman on his neighbours, both in my neighborhood and in Glina. Who's going to judge those criminals? As they walk through Vukovar, the parents of the dead sons, children and families, their moat no one hears except... speaks of history being written down, that someone's being forgiven for their crimes, mainly in terms of large-serb aggression, mostly in terms of missing persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this academy going to solve land books? Is she going to solve this problem? It will. Well, since Austro-Hungarian, we are abroad, during the Austro-Hungarian period, our land books were better solved than today, and that is one of the brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia. Whether the reform shut down courts and institutions as it did in Dalmatia, we do not have a single court, in 1868 in Sinj Emperor Francis Joseph as an alien, opened up, built a building and opened the Municipal Court in Sinj. He's not in Croatia now, so people have to travel 300km to go to court in Split. Is that judicial reform? Is taking care of 2/3 of Croatia, is not. Justice is a cancer of the early Croatian society and you have not decided to solve this problem but it is much more important for you to bring laws here to hire such as Lex Andrija Mikulić, 500 people to have volunteers in the campaign, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140564	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, therefore this final proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, in fact, we in the debate on behalf of the club said that it would not bring significant improvements unless our constructive amendments were adopted but how much our judiciary is very much saying one fact that I as a graduate theologian knew that one indictee had dual citizenship and that he could flee to a neighbouring country, for example. Our people who are dealing with the judiciary didn't know that, otherwise this defendant is a great friend with the president of the HDZ, Mr. Covic, and they are joined by Serbian President Chetnik Vukic di meeting neatly there, so they as a great judicial authority did not know that one indictee who has dual citizenship could leave, I sent an inquiry a month earlier and did not get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140566	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140567	It is a huge and great friendship, we saw down there, Covic, president of the HDZ BiH, Mamic and Vučić, president of the Republic of Serbia, see that it is a great brotherhood and that it is a large common platform that simply survives in this area but well, it is not surprising, colleague of Sladoljev, is Vucic, together with the Croatian HDZ in the European Parliament in the same popular party, of course that he is not being followed, nor is the commission that should be very important in the matter of the judiciary, so chapter 23, 24 di is legal jurisdiction and over Croatian defenders... Serbia means that, of course, every normal state should block it, but because when Croatia entered the EU, we were doing a number of miracles and we were talking to them, we had to arrest all the generals and all the documents of the Homeland War... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140568	Thank you. We will now welcome to the gallery of students and students of the Czech elementary school of Jan Amos Komenski from Daruvar. And in order for them to understand what the debate is about, this point is otherwise called the Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, it's about everything else but that, but here, so you know. [[Applause.]] Now we're going to go to the next line and it's the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140569	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate about the Law on the Judicial Academy, you also mentioned the Judicial Academy, but you also mentioned the mistrust of citizens in the judicial system and administration because we have a series of affairs and a series of courts that last for years and no one has yet been convicted and what Croatian citizens are interested in, who will and whether anyone will return at least one kuna to the state budget that is from taxpayers who have been paying into the state budget is alienated and the fact is that there is no such money. And I hope that at the Judicial Academy and at law schools there will be a study subject of the Law on concessions or decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which decided yesterday that the water springs will transfer concessions to new companies forte Nova, Russian owners or I don't know who. We know that our peasants can't extend the lease agreement unless they've settled their last kuna commitments to the state, municipalities and city and Forte Novi is being transferred even though we know they haven't returned the loans to HBOR, the Agrokor Group and a series of other debts, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140570	Thank you. First of all, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, what's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140571	Thank you very much. You've injured Rules of Procedure 238, I don't see anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that the knight of the Jerusalem tomb is obliged to interpret what the MPs will say, you have a Rules of Procedure, you can give us either a warning or interrupt us, but you have no right to be an interpreter of that. I know that Andrej Plenkovic tells you as a knight of Jerusalem's grave to vote for the Istanbul Convention, you vote of course, it is not a problem for you, therefore you have injured the Rules of Procedure because the public is informed of what the parliamentary representatives will talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140572	Thank you. You're getting a warning because of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140573	Thank you very much for your warning, Your Honor....
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140574	Now, please respond to the replica of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140575	... that our colleagues, Vlaovic, that our judiciary but also these young people, know that the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia is the justice and all the affairs that were, the judiciary has not solved Croatia, and this young people know, the respected Academyman Reiner knows that the judiciary is the cancer of our society, that it is in the protection of one political option that protects us, and that they are doing so, but it is very important to say not only what it is that you mentioned in the land, we have fictitious companies such as the Sinj Milkman who does not exist, where justice does nothing of our own to do, where through a fictitious company imports milk from Serbia and Republika Srpska and in this way is placed in the EU and we have seen that the protocol with China is signed, our prime minister has signed that we will export milk from the special Croatian cow Šarova instead of giving the Act on the protection of cows because if we have anything to import into China, and we have all of China, and we know that there are not all three available. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140576	Thank you, so you said yourself that if we speak outside the agenda, I have the right to give you a warning, so I'm giving you a second warning. Now, we are going to go to the next individual debate, which is the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140577	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I want to say about this law on the Justice Academy. The fact is that we are in the time of pre-election activities and that some MPs are not complaining about neither the time nor the effort to be active on all subjects, and also the judicial ones because the fact is that we should still show that they were born again, that they were never again, that they were here for the first time, that we don't know them, that we don't know what they were doing, that we don't know what the parties are coming from, and that as such, they come out to voters and want even to Brussels because there is still a little bigger pay than here and of course, they don't want to blame themselves, lie, tell the truths not to be convincing, and of course, to create some perceptions among the citizens who should be rewarded then and preferential voices. Because what's wrong with this law? We haven't heard too much, the fact is that the Judicial Academy has one task to educate those who want to work in this system and make them better, more professional, to have certain papers that prove that certain degrees of education have passed and that as such they can be advisers to municipal judges in the unknown, commercial court, the municipal court, the Administrative Court, that they can be the ones who will make decisions justly for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And when we go back a little bit, I say, we've inherited as a government for a while, some kind of system. We remember the government in which Gordan Maras, who also upgraded the system, had her own minister of justice, and he did not have much to complain about at that time and such a minister of justice who did not bring the system in which he wanted to be today. He just left it to someone else. It was normal for them to stand on the road and tell a judicial officer come over there and pick up the front desk, we'll hire you somewhere, but if you already have a problem, you don't work, come to a friend, you don't need a contest, you don't need anything. Come on. He just shows up at the front desk somewhere, so we're gonna get you out because it was normal for the SDP. We hear about the charges of crime, thieving, etc., so I didn't hear Gordan Maras criticizing his former mayor who here, the judicial procedure I don't know, went I don't know how many times, five years went by, I don't know if we're even at the beginning. And that probably has to be settled by the judiciary. You haven't heard from him or Giujic or anyone because why? Because it's normal for them, normally, that a man with a judicial verdict can lead to a city or county organisation of the SDP, it's normal for them. As well as the HSS, the party's president has been legally convicted. With a verdict. And that's normal for everyone. Where do you look? It's just looking at this side, it's all like on another side, it's none of our business, we should all look at them as some big moral verticals that can't be said because they're just in the campaign. For myself. Or those from the MOST here. Well, they had tariffs up for criminal charges, remember those things, so we didn't forget that. Tarifu, if you want to report it, so many euros and let's go. So much for meeting with the Minister of Justice, so much money to meet with the other minister, to organize some kind of show where we're going to show you, where we're going to set you up with something, etc., so have we forgotten gentlemen, you from MOST, have you forgotten that? What's that? Well, I guess those were acceptable behaviors in our justice system. Of course, the system needs to be better, of course, and it needs to be worked on. But it's not one-sided. No, we're allowed everything, and everyone else can't get through any sieve, just us from the SDP, we can go through whatever you want. It's not like that, gentlemen, and that's why this law has the task of making these people better to make decisions for us. Well, of course, in every judicial process, at least or greatest, one is satisfied and the other is dissatisfied. There's no judge in every court who judges as we please or wish. Well, I guess we've learned that in the last few decades, I guess. There's always one in every system that's unsatisfactory. Always. And I'm dissatisfied as the head of the community, I got one sentence in a lower court, on a higher level, they annulled it by not knowing what evidence, but there's a system. We're complaining. Audits, etc., etc. But why are we here interpreting politicians, which is just and what is unfair, forgetting our own sins? Or by looking only at other people's sins, do we not see our own? Gentlemen of the SDP, come to your senses. Where is the money from that famous fae you sold out there in Slovenia? Well, you keep asking someone about some money. So where's your money? Seven hundred thousand euros or what? You forget everything and no one can tell us anything. We can tell you. A fellow Maras, then 200 grand to spend in Las Vegas, to walk around and watch some boxing match with his... It's too bad for the state and it's not nice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's 200 grand I've seen. Well, it's not that small. Here, tell you how long it's been, we haven't been able to get an answer to that question. So we have something to talk about here, it's just a matter of how much we want because your perfection doesn't exist. You were a minister, 70,000 crafts closed. So who are you going to do good for now, I don't know where, in Brussels? What do you want to be? ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 70 grand all over the stats. You didn't? Well, I've heard that's the case. Here. So these are the stories we need to talk about. You shouldn't be ashamed of your sins, Mr. Maras, 'cause it's nice to talk every day, talk all day and talk, and everyone else is guilty. So let's look inside ourselves, around ourselves, so members here suspended in their own party. And they're working. So you suspended them from doing anything. So what are the rules? Someone has been suspended and may be vice president of the SDP quota. You can do it yourself. So that justice system, whatever it is, can't help you, can't help you, even though it's been very fond of you in many times of this new state. So in all that talk, it's up to us to support this law. And you've changed it in 2015, and it was adopted in 2009, so it probably had some effect if there was a need for the system to be both better and better and that people were further educated and that they had qualifications, if we wanted it in public use, if we wanted it in every segment of society, what is the problem in the judicial work? Shouldn't be a problem. So in all that talk, I personally support this law and now we can talk about everything, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140578	Thank you very much. My colleague, Maras, was the first one to cause a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was the injured Rules of Procedure in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140579	The Rules of Procedure were injured in 238, you did not react, your colleague Boris here said very easily the verifiable facts which do not stand from how much I allegedly spent, which is not true, to how many turns were closed during my term, which is not true, 70 000, it is so notorious and I know that it is simply amazing that you have not responded and yet offended your colleagues to lie, and you have not responded to that either. It was all injured in 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140580	Thank you very much. Of course I don't judge who's telling the truth, who's lying because if I were to judge who's lying, I'm afraid very few people would stay here in this room. Therefore, I cannot judge who is telling the truth, who is lying, it is up to each of us to speak or not to tell the truth, it is on his soul. Therefore, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now here you are, you had a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't even know if the kids are still worse but you wouldn't believe what he's saying in elementary school. I mean, that's where he spent 200,000, 70,000 trades, do you know how many crafts there are in Croatia, Mr. Boric? Here, Google it, you've got that laptop in front of you, get ready a little next time because what you're saying is nebuloses. I'm sorry because I mean, people who sit down that need to know that you're a totally unprepared agent, that you're dealing with data that doesn't exist, that right now, I'm just a little uncomfortable, I'm gonna have to tell you, you have no idea. Well, you don't know shit, man. It's hilly-feely. ... I mean, what would he tell you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's terrible that someone can even afford a debate like this. Pray to God no one's seen this at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140582	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140583	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maras, who knows or doesn't, will one day show results, people, time, etc. What you have or you have some own opinion or perception of your own values, that's your problem. The fact is that you closed 70,000 crafts and promised as minister of small entrepreneurship, you promised to open 50,00. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140584	.../Intruder Reiner: Let's not beg from the scene./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140585	Look out, that's a big difference. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140586	.../Intruder Reiner: Do not leave the site./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140587	You beat and destroyed...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140588	/Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, don't leave the scene./ I'm telling you for the fourth time, the 5th time I'll give you a warning. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140589	So they beat up a small and medium-sized enterprise during Mr. Maras who painted in Las Vegas and spent taxpayers' money trying to look at which side of the match, we all know that. And when we asked and asked questions as MPs, they wouldn't let us get an answer to that question, there somewhere near the end it came that he spent not knowing how much money, somewhere around 200,000 if I remembered well and with such ones we have to deal with every day because they look good to themselves and they were basically a monster, caught up with Bjellosica, she burned up there, you know, he was still the CEO there. So these things people need to know before they round up something.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140590	Thank you, thank you very much. Comrade Maras, what has the Rules of Procedure been hurt again?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140591	So much nonsense again, Mr. Vice President, 238. So I wasn't even in the boxing match in Las Vegas. So here's to your information, I flew off before the boxing match started. Second of all, I was the CEO of Bjellolasica. I was the financial director of Bjellolasica. Third, I didn't spend £200,000, I didn't close $70,000. So don't be ashamed, Boric. I'm sorry for you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm sorry about you. Don't be embarrassed. Well, you're a nice boy, don't be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140592	Thank you. Thank you very much. Of course he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, I'm asking you not to abuse that institution, come on. And let's try to concentrate this little bit of time we have left really on this bill because everyone was talking about everything but this law, come on. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if it's nervous, colleague Boric, you said we're not self-critical in SDP, that's not true. And then you mentioned the Sisak County. Here I think it's the same example that shows that the judiciary in this country doesn't work, and that's what I'm talking about. You think I'm happy that the process lasts for five, six years and we have these situations, I'm not. But these things show up in deeds. You see, we're in the SDP as soon as Mrs. S. The mayor came under indictment, we shut her out of the party, and what are you doing? You're the one who ruled out Mrs. Devereaux. The Kosor who prosecuted Mr. Sanader, who is under indictment, and there you sat in an honorable court there to shut her down and your longtime head Calmeta has now made progress with this pro-European government. So parts show self - criticism or not self - criticism. I guess what you're more under the bat, you're making more progress in the hierarchy. Here are the things to talk about and without anxiety, self-critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140594	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140595	It is, exactly, because you are self-critical, legally condemned, you can be run by a city or county organization. That's your level, isn't it? And you hold on to it. Who told you it wasn't like that? Is that me? I can't tell you that because you're convinced that you're right. And that everyone else's work is basically your work. Right? And if it was enough to shut down someone so it wouldn't be your work anymore, but when we shut someone down, it's our work. These are the rules that you impose. What's allowed in this isn't cabbage. It's a rule, always for you, from the party. But it won't work like that. There are people here who will pay you back, stand up because that's not true. And you're still holding that he's legally convicted of you and who has sentenced a normal man who can lead you to an organization, city or county, I don't even know which one. And it's your eyes and let it lead. What would I have against anything? As long as Marasa and us are, I think we have a lot of good polls.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140596	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140597	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, you have shown yourself in the right light. Listen to my debate, I didn't mention the name of any party or one person, I just said that it's unfortunate that there are trials in Croatia that last for years and that it's unfortunate that no kuna has been returned to the state budget. And here you mentioned both the party and the names. I say if someone from the HSS is guilty, they should be convicted and convicted and paid their fines. And you've recognized yourself in this, it's your problem to recognize yourself and it's normal for you that a Slavonic peasant cannot extend a lease or concession contract unless he has paid both the last kuna in the state budget or the municipal budget and it's normal for you to make a decision at the government to concession for source water and for the country to the foreigners. And you're still forcing the mayors of the municipalities to sign contracts they didn't sign but signed by the minister, so tell your minister to get him to sign them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140598	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140599	Thank you very much. Comrade Vlaović, you should not be angry with that if your party president has something that is not for his honor because every time he rises up here and neatly observes the moral disciplines of all of us. What does that mean he did his time, that means he doesn't have what he has? Well, don't do it that way. Well, I remember some ministers who had to leave because they misreported the residence, they were in some time some criteria. [[Intruder: Please, not from the bench.]] Yeah. Well, that's fine. He's gone. We just want it the same for everyone. And not that your sieve can go through anything, and through a sieve that applies to someone else, there's nothing there. Don't be angry, whoever did what he did, didn't serve, I just know that that's how it is, if I have, you tell me, I'm out of here and done. And we can't do that, your work is someone else's and...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140600	.../ Insect: I've had enough of yours, you're getting a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140601	..and mine is all mine. Well, I don't know how much you stole, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140602	You're getting a restraining order with a speech ban until today, today. Here you go. Because you can't yell from the bench all the time, because. ... Comrade Maras [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't yell from the spot. [[Intruder: 30 million kunas were stolen by HDZ in FIMI Media, and I said so and therefore you give me a warning.]] No, because you're yelling at me because I didn't give you... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140603	.../ Intruder: What they did, they made 30 million kunas, they stole FIMI Media HDZ for the campaign./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140604	You get a double sentence twice, you won't be able to speak on Tuesday. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović. [[Intruder: Saturday.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140605	Mr Vice-President, please take the session into your own hands, this parliament is not only serving HDZ and the SDP to fight for the EU elections. Let's keep talking right and stop watching the circus here, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140606	I agree with you, there have been no violations of the Rules of Procedure in the sense that you have raised, but I agree with you and I keep pleading with my colleagues to do so. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140607	Thank you. Dear colleague Boric. You haven't read the Law on the Judicial Academy, you haven't heard my debate, so I said in the debate that this law was necessary and that it had the potential and almost every article of the law I've explained, therefore, the only one on behalf of the club representatives and this Assembly speaker. So, I talked about almost every article of the law, so, not the affairs. You've been saying all your debate that this law is necessary, and I also think it is necessary, and I wanted to improve it with my amendments. So your entire debate wasn't about the Judicial Academy, unlike mine, and you often call in these parliamentary debates that someone hasn't read the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140608	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140609	Thank you very much. I spoke to MOST, and the fact that you're the only one left here, that's another thing. My colleague Bulj also had a debate about the Judicial Academy and the Law, and I don't know any part of his debate that had too much to do with this law, mostly talking about what he was talking about. I said it's okay, let him do, let him do, he's in the campaign and he's got his own rules of conduct, but the fact is that it was about affairs, and I just mentioned one where MOST ministers had a tariff. And it was all out there. That's what someone wrote, that's what they talked about, that's what the shows were about, and I can't forget it. And if you're already calling someone else for some sin, it's time to look around in your backyard and clean something up and then tell someone else you're wrong. But mixing people, mixing us all here with some individuals, etc., in order for someone else's sin to pass on to us, I don't allow it. If I have a problem, tell me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140610	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Christian Turkalj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140611	So, today in the debate, at least we're talking about the law, and we think that this law is extremely important and the perception of the judiciary, so to fix it, then we believe exactly, we all need to make a contribution, and so by commenting and commenting on the proposal we made. As far as perception itself is concerned, there are many reasons why the perception of justice is the way it is. It's not one dimensional question that can only be answered through one change. The conditions in which courts work, state attorneys are not satisfactory, citizens when they come to courts, not all of them, some of which, of course, make an impression of the speed of proceedings and individual decisions, all of which creates perception, but this debate also creates a perception of justice. Unfortunately, no one quoted the European Commission's report in other segments except for the part where the perception of the judiciary is mentioned. But that report recognized the significant steps that this government has taken lately and they have not been mentioned in any part of this debate and that is what we consider to be a pity. I'll just remind you of some things. Therefore, the European Commission acknowledges that there has been a reduction in pending cases, and this is significant, that there has been a reduction in the length of court proceedings. The European Commission has praised all the activities that have been done by introducing modern technologies, what we call e-communication, so the introduction of an electronic file, raising transparency, etc. It is commendable to the adoption of the Law on Court Taxes that we have recently passed if you remember which one we reduced by 50% of the court fees to those used by electronic communications. So we have made it easier for citizens to access justice if modern technologies are used. So that's where we talk primarily when lawyers communicate with courts. But the benefit is to the parties. It also praised the reorganisation of the network of courts. I must remind you here, since it has been pointed out on many occasions that this government has abolished the court in Sinj. The court in Sinj was suspended in 2015, so the court in Sinj was then turned into a permanent service. This reorganisation has not changed anything in this respect. And now he would refer to the application by MP Anka Mrak-Taritash regarding the content of this reform, so we have come from comparative experiences to see what the best practices are, the EU Member State regarding the education of judicial officials. We analyzed best practices, we got inspiration and a series of solutions. What are the key elements that ensure the quality of the program, the quality of the performance. The four key elements that have been shown to be taken into account in the Member States. One of the most important is how and how the training program is defined. And that's where we saw the big failures that were so far, so it didn't, I said it in my opening statement, it wasn't enough to make sure that the individual needs of the judicial officials were heard. The change we've introduced is essential. In real time, when you work, when you have a problem, you have the ability to send a message, online, via the Justice Academy website that you want. We also stressed the importance that the system must also worry about where there is a need for education. I think it's still hard to expect that judicial officials for some types of education will show themselves but we at the level of the Ministry of Justice or from the level of the Supreme Court can see what needs are especially when we speak, for example. knowledge and knowledge of European law. Or, there was mentioned an inequality of court practice. The Supreme Court may see the problem of unequal court practice and may request through the work of the Programme Council that these issues be addressed through the work of the judicial academy. So the question of the program is how one of the key elements is created. Secondly, the selection of lecturers is the quality of the lecturer's second element to be taken care of. And that's where we made important steps. The third element that is important is the evaluation, that the evaluation system be set up in quality. And finally, to use modern methodologies to transfer knowledge, to stop the theoretical transfer of knowledge, what we call the ex cathedral. Today, therefore, we have studied, the most modern way is to combine learning remotely with a later workshop. Different combinations, different waists, so that's what we did when we introduced those 40:30 parameters. So when we talk about other social skills, that is, interactive workshops, where witches will participate with judges and where they will get different aspects of looking at a particular problem. So judges, or judicial officials, are familiar with the way other professions work. And making it easier for them to work later. These are elements that are embedded in these legal changes, so we believe that exactly one of the key elements that can contribute to change is one of the key elements that can contribute to changing perceptions and raising quality, but it's not the only one. In order to change the situation only for the organisation of the judicial system so far, we have changed 11 regulations, 11 regulations in which we have changed things essentially, how judges are elected, how the criteria are determined, how they should be evaluated. But to fully see the results of what has been changed in these 11 laws, surely this cannot happen overnight, we believe that the results of these changes will be felt and trust will be restored. But we haven't just worked on it, the return of trust goes through the introduction of modern technologies and transparency, a higher level of transparency will allow greater trust in the judiciary and, in this context, the creation of an electronic file, which will be available on the Internet, which will be in real time certainly and will shorten and speed up procedures. As for the commentary that there are no essential reforms here, what we have heard or certainly not heard, and what are fundamental reforms, we have not heard what other proposals are, I would like them to hear, which would help restore trust, we think that we are just reforming the State Judiciary Council, reforming the network of courts, reforming the criteria for progress, precisely making it possible to restore trust and judicial officials, as well as citizens in the judiciary. As for the proposals of MPs, we will certainly study them in detail, I would briefly look back at why we have made some solutions at this point. Therefore, it was a question of contradiction between the two articles related to the powers to make deals, to assume obligations, etc. Essentially, this is about the following, the director to be able to do his job, he must have a certain maneuvering space, so we must determine how much money it is that the director can assume obligations so that the academy can function regularly. We said it would be determined by the statutes. After that, when the amount is exceeded, he must, the Director shall request the approval of the Administrative Board for the taking over of certain tasks. And the third level is when neither the Administrative Council, because it is important business, can take responsibility without the government's consent. So these are the three levels we predicted. We think it is important that we do not have concrete amounts in the law because, given the changes in time, they change, they will be determined by the statute, the statutes are passed by the Administrative Council with the consent of the Government, so the Government will be the one to determine the amounts, so that there will be a more flexible way of changing the amount if it is necessary, given, I don't know, to introduce the EUR or something else. As far as choosing from the ranks of the university teachers of legal science in the bodies of the judicial academy, here I have to say that we think that this is a matter that needs to be regulated by the statute, we think, so we have four law schools, yes, so far it's worked, that it's been going to a consensus agreement between the dean and it's proved to work. Just because it's been working so far, we don't think I should go into over-nod. As regards, therefore, the ratios, it is precisely one of the things that we have seen and where we have analyzed the best practices of EU Member States, we have concluded that judicial agencies with larger traditions are currently directing and ensuring that programs respond to both skills and other things, not only to deal with theoretical knowledge and such solutions exist, for example. in German legislation. There were words about land books that, of course, this law does not deal with land books, but this law will allow those who work on land books issues to get the necessary education. But I'll remind you of the time, and as far as we moved, we used to come to the garter shop, and we just had to wait for hours for the excerpt, and some of us were probably doing other shops to get to our extract, the owner's list. Today every citizen can sit on the Internet and within 5 minutes for 20,00 kn gets his credible ownership list. That's what reduces corruption, that's what contributes to speed, transparency and trust return, and that's where we want to go to put all possible services available to citizens through the Internet to disable any possibility of corruption and thus restore citizens' trust in the judiciary. Regarding the comments that came about the duplication of the judicial exam, we think exactly what happened in the 2015 amendments when it was possible to pass the final exam for the state school, turned the state school into a replica, we just through these legislative changes wanted to change and say, we do not want the state school to be a judicial exam, we want the state school to give to the young man who entered the system, the mentor who will teach him how to write a verdict, who will teach him how to rule the debate, which will enable him to rule independently, sovereignly, all of those knowledge and skills that are necessary for a judicial officer, these are practical knowledge, not knowledge of criminal law, that is not knowledge of civil law, the Law of litigation and what a certain school must not be. Since the essential reforms, we have heard that fundamental reforms have been given to judges to solve cases, those who were in court know that the case can be completed when the actual state of affairs has been established, so the carrying out of evidence, that would mean if they had prescribed a deadline, that if all the evidence had not been carried out, then they would have stopped the process. Such a proposal would lead to legal uncertainty and violations of citizens' rights. And regarding the unification of court practice, I will also remind you that in the reform of 2015 a random allocation of cases by appeal to the county courts was introduced. So, all the cases after the appeal go to all the county courts, then in the light of the law it was written that this would lead to the unification of the caselaw, then we commented that this would not lead to the unification of the case law, but had already led to what, that it had become evident that regional court practices existed, neither Dubrovnik had changed its case-law after that, nor had Rijeka changed, nor Split. But what can now lead to a change in court practice is that the Supreme Court and the Judicial Academy in such situations where an unequal case-law is observed, workshops are organised and that these workshops discuss matters and that judicial practice is then evened out, either through a general session or a session, an extended session of the Supreme Court department to discuss such issues and to then levelen the case law. In conclusion, we believe that this law will lead to fundamental changes that will allow programmes to be appropriate to those intended, this law primarily aims to ensure that judges and state lawyers of the age of programmes they need, not programmes that are needed for those who perform teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140612	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140613	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Secretary of State, you spoke in your debate about the perception of citizens in the judiciary who, according to certain polls, are truly devastating or that citizens have no confidence in the judiciary, so there is a big deal in this matter before you. You also talked about shortening procedures or settlements. For example, in the northern Republic of Croatia in 3 counties, the Međimurje, Varazdinska and Koprivnica-križevci, you have 3 legally convicted SDP officials, and that is no less, nor more, than the rank of a parliamentary representative. Namely, the proceedings were brought against them when they were parliamentary deputies, it has no party but the SDP, and they were convicted of abuse of position, fraud, counterfeiting of official documents, illegal payment of stimulation, and the last case ended with a settlement. where he was sentenced to five months in prison. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140614	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140615	Thank you very much. Mr. Turkalj, you said that this debate also creates perception and I agree with you, but this debate wouldn't be like this if the perception in the judiciary was better though. So the situation in the Croatian judiciary is before, but I am glad that you have also realized that the state or perception of the situation is bad and that gives me some hope that you are aware of the problem and that I hope you are working on it. So all of these things, transparency, new technologies, it's good and it's certainly going to improve the situation and the picture, but it's not enough. So what we're trying to say is, what I personally think, until we speed up court proceedings, while publicly, and that part of the trials that are slow, but which are the biggest, they're the biggest and the media are the most attractive, most of them going well, but that's that bad perception, so people have a sense of uncertainty and injustice, they have the feeling that they're the biggest, the most vicious among us, that's what I'm going to say, they go unpunished, while the little ones are being punished and these are the things that we need to change and change. This law will improve certain things, but I hope we do. It won't take 10 years. Who now see if there's something good or not [[Intruder: Thank you]] That's it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140616	The next replicas of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140617	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Turkalj, I'm glad that in your closing statement you referred to the content because I think the most important thing that we need to read is not the form, but the content. I will surely always advocate lifelong education for the simple reason that no one is an island and no one is alone and as such must see the context and everything else. I agree with you in the final word when you said that religion in the judiciary can only be returned if there is greater transparency, transparency and decisions and everything else. Likewise, you mentioned in your closing statement that you have referred to some other countries, EU members, since we have different legislation regarding the judiciary, given that we have a different history and tradition, maybe if, I don't know, if you decided not to answer, you won't answer, but it might be good to hear what EU countries have about the same legislation and similar subject Because then it's some kind of common story at EU level. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140618	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140619	Dear MPs, studies have been carried out on these elements that I mentioned at EU level and certain practices that have proved to be best addressed. What I mean is, here is not the essence of diversity in legal systems because the question of transfer of knowledge is actually, regardless of the law, it has certain methodologically similar elements that are important and that's what we're looking for, what we've analyzed, what are the methodological approaches that we could adopt to improve the system? For us the inspirational things were Germany, Finland, let's say what was very interesting to me in Finland, the Supreme Court of Finland has several judges who follow court practice and when the problem is seen then through the judicial academy a workshop is made for it. So we used such examples and tried to put them in a normative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140620	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140621	Thank you. You see, the problem in our judiciary is called part copying. We had problems with judges, one part of judges, not all of them, but one part of judges behaves so as to wait for more instance to make some final decision and only then begin to make some decisions that are in accordance with the law and until, until the case-law is established, many of them copy each other and make even wrong judgments. The right must be accessed telelogically, not limited. If the right to look limited, if you don't watch telelogically, there's a problem in court proceedings, I've had puma experience because I've been following the Franak case for eight years. And there's been a lot of wandering around, there's a lot of discrepancies, and that's why people are in wait, waiting, coming running out of time very quickly, and that's why many people are going to lose their rights to compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140622	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Before we move to the next point, I would like to say that I am withdrawing my decision to exclude my fellow Maras for next Tuesday because the time is pre-election, I do not want anyone to tell me that I have denied him the ability to speak, so that the decision of disfellowshipping from the session is only valid for today. There it is, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140623	We move to a statement on amendments, to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, second reading, P.Z. No. 558. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, amendments were submitted by representatives of counterpart Peđa Grbin, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. First amendment of Honored counterpart Peđa Grbin, please welcome fellow State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140624	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation, a maximum limit of 2 times for the final exam, has existed since the start of the State School for Judicial Officials, and is intended to promote originality and allow only the best candidates in the school to become judicial officials. The recognition of such rights to candidates would mean greater legal uncertainty and the unequal position of the candidates, who have joined, or who have joined this exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140625	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am afraid that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respectively, did not understand the amendment. This amendment does not propose an increase in the number of state exams, so the number of possible state exams would remain exactly the same. It would be two state exams. Only even those candidates, who passed the state exam, if not satisfied with the number of points reached, would be able to pass the exam once again. Namely, I'll repeat, the state exam can be passed twice. The state exam as such is the basis for progress in judicial services, therefore, in the State Attorney's Office and in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. If you pass a state exam and do not age a large number of points, regardless of the fact that you passed it, you will no longer be able to advance in that service. If we know that the state exam is usually passed in the late 20s or early 30s of the candidate's life, we, in this way, have made it impossible for young people who work in the judicial services or who want to enter the judicial services to move on for life. This would also not result in the cost of the state budget, as it is clear in the law, who bears the costs of passing the state exam for the first time, and who bears the costs for each next time, and that is the candidates. So, the candidates would then bear the costs of passing the exam themselves, which would ensure for the state no additional costs, they would have to prepare themselves for that, they would have to learn for themselves, and excellence would be guaranteed by the fact that if they failed to achieve the right number of points in re-position, there is no further progress. Simply this amendment is the fruit of my years of work in the State Attorney's Council and I can tell you that there are colleagues sitting there with me, so I am extremely sorry that the government has not accepted it now, and of course I am asking for a vote on that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140627	Thank you. We are now going to the Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, first Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140628	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is considered unnecessary, legal normation of practices which so far has not proved problematic and consistent that these members of the board of directors have been elected consensually, so that the proposed provision would also mean a reduction of the entry, an agreed resolution of this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140629	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140630	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that Article 3, paragraph 3 of Article 14 and paragraph 5 are mutually out of line, and that concept is being introduced to make the law clearer and more focused. So we would like to add that the administrative council is added, and normo is more technically regulated, because such a proposal in two separate articles regulates the acquisition of burdens and estrangement of property and other assets or the conclusion of another legal regulation, if the value of the contract or other legal work is passed by a certain statute, and we want a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140631	Amendment number 2. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140632	The amendment is not accepted. Specifies the applicant on the mutual non-compliance of the provisions of Art. Article 3(3) 14, paragraph 5 is not established, and the solutions contained in these selections are not in accordance with the Laws on Institutions. The purpose of the regulation of this material in both articles is to ensure the regular and uninterrupted functioning of the Judicial Academy, which will be achieved in a way that the statute, adopted by the administrative board of the Academy, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, prescribes the value limits, to which legal affairs are taken by the Director of the Academy, independently, the Director, with the consent of the Administrative Council of the Academy and finally, the Academy, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140633	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We want to get into art. Article 9, amends and votes by a member of the Board of Directors of the University of University Teachers, Legal Sciences, appoints and resolves deans, law school in a way that is considered to be elected to them by that member, who received at least 50% of the votes of all deans of the Faculty of Law, who voted on the invitation of the Academy. We believe that this sentence is not defined, therefore, as you have defined it, in what way the deans name and resolve a member of the board of directors, which is the consequence, if different blankets and names different persons and what if one of the deans later makes a decision on the member appointed, while the other deans do not support it. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140635	Amendment number 3. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140636	The amendment is not accepted. A provision under which the leaders of the judicial authorities cannot be members of the programme council, of the Academy, prescribed in the light of the number of their obligations, of care, of the orderly and regular functioning of these bodies, but in view of the work of the programme council, and of the general need of decentralisation in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140637	Honorable representative of the Sladolev, on behalf of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140638	Thank you, as well as in the first amendment, I think it is. 3. paragraph 3 and Article 14 shall be mutually non-compliant, and as indicated... refers to the law as a clear norm technically more orderly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in general we said in the debate itself, therefore, these amendments to the law on the Judicial Academy will not in any way restore confidence in the Croatian judiciary. We also had a scandalous decision today by a constitutional judge regarding the referendum initiative on pension reform, so these are only cosmetic changes, and here we see that you have not accepted these amendments, but we will still ask for a vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140639	Amendment No. 4 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140640	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is considered unnecessary by normising this issue to the provisions of the legal rank from which the administrative council and the powers of more precise regulation of the material rights of members of the programme council are based by its decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140641	Honorable representative of Sladolev on behalf of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140642	Thank you. We believe that it is unclear and without a high-quality explanation why this paragraph determines that the leaders of the judicial authorities cannot be members of the programme council when just the leaders of the judicial authorities are obliged to monitor the needs for professional training of judges in their courts and to monitor the movement of the number of types of cases and to monitor the needs of professional training of judges and advisers through the head of the department within the courts. We therefore propose that Article 16(2) be deleted as surplus, and moreover as potentially harmful and certainly restrictive, we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140643	Amendment No. Five bridge clubs with independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140644	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the previous experience already gained in the work, those groups of advisors are not foreseen as compulsory members of the State School for Judicial Officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140645	In the name of the club, the respected representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140646	Thank you. We therefore believe that these articles should have been more clearly defined in view of the fact that judicial advisers, senior judicial advisers and judicial consultants-specialists are involved in the resolution of all dilemmas. According to Article 109 of the applicable Law on Courts, the court may have judicial advisers, several judicial advisers and several judicial advisers-species. This bill does not apply the same termology at all, and therefore, in practice, there will be uncertainty whether senior court advisers and possibly later judicial consultants who have not yet been brought to life, compulsory schooling or accessing the final exam in accordance with the provisions of this law, we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140647	Amendment No. Six. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140648	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed provision is considered to be unnecessary by additional norms because the judicial officials as mentors are determined by the annual schedules of the tasks brought by the leaders of the judicial authorities, whereby the criteria and similarities for this role, or the ability to transfer knowledge and skills, are nevertheless assumed in the light of the prescribed obligation to attend and complete the special education for mentors before the academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140649	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140650	Thank you. Although Article 23(3) provides that mentors may be appointed by judicial officials who have completed mentor training at the academy and the rules on how the school's mentors work, we believe that the final draft of the law should define who is the mentor and who determines who will be the mentor. There is no word about it in the entire legislative proposal and there is a danger of sending inadequate people to education. We believe that it should be determined that such persons are appointed from the order of persons who in their work have highlighted their preferences in the transfer of knowledge and skills necessary for the work of a judicial official for whom they have shown quality in their work results. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140651	Amendment No. 7 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140652	The amendment is not accepted. For the purposes of Article 3(3), Article 14(5) shall not apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140653	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140654	So on this last amendment, I'm just going to express my dissatisfaction that no amendment has been accepted, so in the debate we were very constructive, so basically the only club that talked about the very text of the law even though you called us out to talk about the text of the law itself. So we have proposed 7 amendments, to conclude I will say that these amendments to the Law on Judicial Inspection will not improve the Croatian judiciary, so they would have improved if you had accepted that in the small part of our amendment. So we have the trust in the judiciary that we have, after these changes she'll stay the same and maybe it'll be worse, thank you, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140655	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140656	Final draft law on judicial academy, second reading, P.Z. Number 558. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by a representative of Peja Grbin and a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will now hold a vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first amendment by Peja Grbina's representative is not accepted by the government. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the Most – Independent Lists. The first amendment is not accepted by the Government, so we must vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number two of the same Club of Representatives is not accepted by the Government, so I ask you to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3 of the same Club of Representatives is not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4 again the same Club of Representatives the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5 again The Club of Representatives of the Most – Independent Lists The Government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 6 of the same Club of Representatives is not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the 7th Amendment of the same Club of Representatives is not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. So now we're going to vote on the final draft law on the Judicial Academy. Please, let's vote. I find most of the votes 82 for, 36 abstentions passed the Law on the Judicial Academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140657	We would now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a conclusion on the submission of applications to the State Audit Office at the CNB. Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA based Article. 165. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The government delivered an opinion. I want something. Here's a fellow Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140658	Dear Vice President HS, in line with this issue of CNB, I would like to remind you that already 2.g. There was no regular report on the CNB in HS. Therefore, I ask you to appeal to the president of the HS to put as much as possible this topic of the CNB report as possible because in this way we are doing a circus from the Croatian Parliament where we are still discussing the CNB today, and no one from the CNB is present at this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140659	Okay. This, of course, this has nothing to do with this, and nobody should be from the CNB here, but, uh, let's move on. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac, I presume.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140660	Thank you very much. I'll give you a preliminary explanation, but I'd like to ask that this item be withdrawn from the agenda as it has not been held by the Finance Committee. So, this would, right now, have one precedent if, without the previous board of directors, we were still putting the subject under discussion, I don't think that's good, I think it would be best if the Finance Committee were to be held first, and then I, on behalf of the club, gave an explanation on behalf of the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140661	Comrade Bunjac, it is not a precedent, it has been before, and it has been followed by an article. 228th, following Art. 228th, The 228th of our Rules of Procedure, therefore, the Chairman may, but he may not have to change the order of discussion or decision if there is no report by the competent working bodies of the applicant or the Government for a particular item of the agenda. So that, and it's happened in the past. You wanted it to come to the agenda, you have now... So, in the morning, I don't see any reason why we don't actually discuss it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140662	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140663	Are you looking for Stanka, or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140664	Well, here I am, too, on behalf of the Most Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140665	Wait, what, what are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140666	Well, here's what I'm asking is for the point of motion to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140667	Comrade Bull, you cannot speak, you cannot speak, you cannot speak outside the Rules of Procedure, what is wrong with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140668	Just be cool, don't be nervous, so I'm not around...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140669	No, no, but you can't talk, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140670	Are you nervous?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140671	No, I'm not, but you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140672	So on behalf of the MOST Club, I can support the motion to withdraw the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140673	I'd give you a warning now, here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140674	A warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140675	Comrade, you have a second warning, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140676	You're a really proud man, this is how you really are a Democrats...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140677	Yeah, 'cause you can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140678	A patterned Democrats...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140679	... saywhateveryouwant andwhateveryouwant.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140680	You can see...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140681	Read it once at last, you've been here long enough to read the Rules of Procedure, so that you know when to speak, and when not and in what way you can speak, there are ways when you can speak through the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140682	So support the motion for no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140683	Hey, buddy Bull! Here's my colleague Lovrinović, you want a break or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140684	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up because you're patching us all up here and I'm not going to discuss it at all, I'm going to wait my turn, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140685	Comrade Bunjac, here you go. So, on behalf of you, as a representative of the proposer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140686	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Secretary of State, so today we are discussing the proposal for a conclusion on the revision in the CNB. I am obliged, therefore, to say a brief chronology of how this debate took place, which is that it is the custom in HS to hold before the debate at the plenary session, the committee, the competent working body, in this case the Committee on Finance, and that this committee was convened this morning at 8.45 p.m. and the external members came to it. So the representatives of the banks came and I don't know who all of whom, all of whom are institutions, in any case, were one 10 to 15 people. However, the MPs did not come, so there was no quorum because the MPs were asleep, they were very hard to wake up and come to HS at 8:45, which is still, people have to rest, because, especially on Fridays and so on, they drink coffee, eat a plunger, and then they come, and then, since there was no quorum, the chairman of the committee of Mrs. Peric said that there are no meetings of the board and that she would then call the board once again at 10:30 and the same committee that there would be no quorum on that committee, so only 6 people came this time without outside members and then started talking like those people who didn't come to the board session would vote through SMS and even asked to hold a debate without quorum, which we in the Living Wall, of course, couldn't agree to. And now I'm asking you here, quite frankly, why in this case is there a precedent, and what kind of MPs do we have that aren't able to get to work? So we have representatives who don't come to their jobs, not just to the plenary session, but not to the board of experts to whom he's a member. And now you're explaining to me that someone who has a salary of 155.00 kn and receiving 20.000,00 kn when they include those benefits, flats, separate lives, apartments, directors, travel expenses, blah, blah, blah, what's going on, means they're not able to get on the board twice in a row or at a plenary session. And what to think about now and what we are now at all, what to make Croatian citizens think about it and what to the public think about it and how you think after that HS will get grades, reviews when they bug those polls, etc. So, of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia it's still the president, the government, the Constitutional Court, HS, HS has definitely the lowest score, he's got a lower than the two, so he's got 1.8, 1.9, and you all know that with that average you can't finish school with. So, we actually deserve to repeat the material and that's what's very bad, and that's what I've had to say at the very beginning, and that's what derogates and degrades this whole debate, not by our will, or my personal, I've come to that committee session twice, and here I am now, and here, rather than by the will of those who are completely concerned with what's being debated in HS, sloths who only matter to get paid and not to wave, in order to touch those who put them on the lists. There you go. That's how it looks. As for, further, this story of the CNB, it is very bad to see that there is no one here from the CNB, that there is no Minister Zdravko Maric who, therefore, is the Minister of Finance, who could also say something. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which, therefore, sends an additional message to the public that it doesn't matter what they're saying, that it doesn't matter at all that the opposition got far more votes, but the ruling majority in the elections, but it matters who's talking, and if by any chance I was a member of the HDZ then we'd be on the board, we'd be all, we'd be the governor's minister, but since I'm not, there aren't, and that's what's not good. As far as the CNB is concerned, why are we in favour of entering the State Audit into the CNB? Because we think that something with the CNB needs to be done and that we're asking for the State Audit to enter the CNB, it's just that, freely we can say, a palitative measure, it's not nearly enough to do with the CNB, but here we are at least trying to do that, but that's probably not going to let us, we're seeing that they're trying all day not to talk about it because actually the CNB should go in, not the State Audit, but it should go in there as well as the DORH and the police. It's a quasi institution that causes numerous evils in the Republic of Croatia, there it is, we can literally say evil. It is neither a Croatian bank nor a national bank nor a question of whether it is a bank at all. It is an ordinary exchange shop, which has made of the Croatian economy what we have today, which means total failure, sale, destruction and conversion of the state into a renting state, and not more into production, as it may have been a few decades ago. The direct reason why we asked for the entry of the audit into the CNB is that the CNB has since 2017 produced a loss of €2.5 billion, which has been in the period from 2012-2018. The CNB is in charge of 2 billion euros, which has never been before and we simply want to get an answer to the question from where the 2 billion euros in debt came from. So 2 billion euros or 15 billion kuna, that was a direct occasion. However, there is, of course, a whole series of other reasons, which would finally be the time for someone to manifest himself to the public. I'll just mention some, like, so many times, mentioned too high and illegal interest. There is a representative, Alexic, who will elaborate much better than me, so we have long had the rightful verdicts, that Croatia, interest, is being charged illegally, and not only are these interest payments not paid back, but the worst of all is still illegally charged. The CNB could have prevented it as a financial market regulator, however. Then there is the normal issue of the Swiss franc, which has been dragging on since 2004, 2005. To this day, which has also not been solved. The damaged clients, numerous Croatian families, are forced to sneak through courts, live in cramps, uncertainty, spend large funds, instead of solving the problem by those who can solve it, which means state institutions, primarily the CNB. Those loans should never have been allowed, because these loans were known to be fraud, we had a case in Australia in the '80s. Last century, and then when they had already happened, then, I don't know, some other countries, such as Hungary, even Serbia, Poland, could have cut the problem off without people being forced to exorcise justice themselves. In addition, CNB allowed illegal loans, so-called RBA cooperatives, where any mediators, often lawyers, and we can say open bags, came to Croatia, gave people loans at very high interest rates and what is even more important with very high fees, which were sometimes climbing up to 25% and that was illegal because these contracts were supposed to be signed in Austria, and they were signed in Croatia. There are also several tens of thousands of families killed and still have major problems because of this, they have fallen into debt slavery, which is practically life-long. Furthermore, CNB does not regulate so-called. credits from bankers and from tram and other bus stations, you come wherever you want, in Zagreb, every pillar offers, I don't know, 10 credits, like this, we close blacklists, no executions, no blockages, no matter what the pensioner is unemployed, employed, you can always get loans, and the thing is, that these loans are eventually re-placed through the bank. So you come to a bank, that bank doesn't grant you credit in your business, but that same bank, through that banker and again some of the loan brokers. Why doesn't anyone put an end to it? Who will answer these questions, we do not know, and we will obviously wait so long until this ruling majority is picked up where it belongs. We also have in Croatia, an open money laundering. You have, therefore, mafia, mafia credit institutions, for example from Malta or Cyprus, which here in Croatia, via the online internet offer also so-called. Loans and this is literally being laundered, so mob money, I repeat once again, people are told, borrow 1,000 kn per month and interest is 3 kn. And only if one day late, a man with a loan payment, then his interest is 1,000 kn and nobody, nobody's talking about it, what's the CNB doing? They just come down with their shoulders and tell people, be careful, we warn you. That is, for example, the governor of the CNB, he is Cardinal Bozanic, and he says, I warn you against sin, don't do it. That's the role of governor. Or he's like a meteorologist. Here, we have the head of the CNB of some redesigned Vakul, which says a warning, will be at sea with a big storm and don't sail. It's not the governor's job, to warn neither that he's salting people's minds, but it's his job to keep him from doing it, he has to protect people, he has to help this country, not smart. Furthermore, these same people, therefore, who should protect the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, are trained to do so and receive salaries, huge salaries and the question is what else they get past these salaries and that is also one of the reasons why the revision should enter the CNB. I've repeated it many times, and I can repeat it once more in... So the governor of the CNB, for example. Mr. Vujčić makes an annual net of EUR 100,000,00, you can see it on the Internet, so a man earns $750,000, and in his property card he has no property, no property, so he has no apartment, no car, no savings, no pictures, no clocks, no nothing, so he's more a rich housekeeper in HS than the governor of the CNB, is that possible? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not. I believe that money exists somewhere, one good part of that money that it represents savings, some profit, that it's invested somewhere, where, we don't know, by what we read, it's about the poor. On the other hand, the deputy governor, so his subordinate who has a lower salary, has the property of 35 million kuna, how is that possible again? So this man, in order to have the property of 35 million kuna, had to be deputy governor in 200 years, he was 200 years old. He had to be a deputy governor, not to eat, not to drink, not to pay direction and anything to earn 35 million kuna. How do you explain it, like a weird, weird situation? Finally, I ask myself why someone who has 35 million kunas would ever work in the public service, which is why, because of some altruism or just that valley, he doesn't need it, and yet he does. Do we have the right to doubt that there is any other interest in this? There is. Just remember the governor of Rohatinski himself who came from Agrokor to the CNB for four times as much pay as he had in Agrokor. Come on, tell me, for what reason would someone take four times the salary of what they have now, for what reason? Obviously, the reason, therefore, is that he may have had some extra profit, some extra profit that we can't reach because we don't have any insight into the audit, no one can enter the CNB and find out exactly what it's about. What kind of policy does this CNB run in the first place? Which is, therefore, the exchange rate of kuna related to the EUR and which is why the CNB is forcing us to introduce it when it is known to us. 1. that we do not have the conditions to introduce it, 2. that the cost of conversion of kuna into EUR is very high and 3. most importantly, that the vast majority of Croatian citizens are against the introduction of EUR. How to explain the fact that the governor of the CNB spends more working time abroad than in the Republic of Croatia, he travels 150 to 180 days a year, also takes millions of expenses, pays the hotel, pays the plane, pays the logs, I don't know what, so on, but apparently, it's possible that he's getting instructions about how to run the CNB somewhere abroad, and not in the Republic of Croatia. What was that famous meeting in Kicbil doing at the time of the building team's government? That is all, therefore, the things the public sees, which in some way drives the public to doubt, and we are persistently trying to get an answer, and we, parliamentary deputies, the highest legislative authority in this country, are trying to, so there's no one relevant here who can answer those questions, it all comes down to this, to one boasting attitude, again these living-wall botherers want to know something about the CNB, we'll obstruct it as much as we can procedurally, and we won't let anything happen anyway. And this is what it means, it means this problem and we just as uncomfortable as it is right now, we're going to keep insisting on it, so we're going to insist, we're not going to stop, we're not going to give up, we're not going to disappear, don't worry, whatever it is, we're going to be there, and we're just going to have to find out the truth once. So much for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140687	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140688	Thank you. Here, dear colleague Bunjac, I am as a representative of the opposition and member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget came in this morning at 8.45 when we were to meet on the board, waiting for not 15, but 20 minutes, so it's been a academic quarter and I'm not clear how at least members of the HDZ and one of the HNS, so, there are 7 of them, they could have come to solve it, why they don't come on Fridays so early, why the president schedules at 8.45 when no one's making an appointment so early, we've come here, whether it's ignoring this topic at all, you who filed that request, and on the other hand, when someone else is in question, something, they're all salting their brains, you know, sending ethical messages, calling, and now you see how they're doing. Why They Treat Work Badly in HS? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140689	The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140690	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović, not that they don't come at 8.45, they don't come at all, they didn't come at 10:30, they didn't come at half-one. So, just one of the reasons why MPs don't come to the boards and the assembly sessions is because they don't decide anything, they don't decide, they decide, that their word matters, they come, but since their word is completely irrelevant, and they have their own opinions, they know that they'll have to give up if the government said otherwise, it means, that classical half-tronship, I have an opinion, but I'm only saying it if it's allowed, and if it's not allowed, then I keep my opinion to myself and that's what's not good, and that's among other reasons why these representatives are today and otherwise left from my job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140691	The next replicas of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140692	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Bunjac, it's important that our governor of the CNB is not an astrologer, because then it would be most tragic, but the fact is that the new Law on the State Audit Office was passed on March 6, 2019, where art. 11th and then Art. 16. define the powers of the state office to enter the CNB and control documents. So what you're calling MPs here, then you should also check out all the other MPs who are not in a position how many times they're in board sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140693	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140694	Thank you, beautiful representative Peric, I understand that your Living Wall is getting on your nerves, that's fine. However, I'm personally always in HS, so, in almost 2.5, g. I have not failed once, you have parliamentary statistics, so by activity I am the fourth representative in HS, according to speeches, by parliamentary issues, by replicas, by participation in sessions, by committees, by different groups of parliamentary co-operation, and thus I get the legitimacy to question. It would be sad to ask, but actually, I'm doing the same thing. So, since I'm working differently, I have, so the right to simply ask why others aren't trying to follow that positive example of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140695	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140696	Thank you, Vice President HS. Mr. Bunjac, you were talking about the process of introducing EUR, we see that lately Governor Vujčić and HNB would call it, pilgrimages by colleges, pilgrimages by institutions and talk unilateral, biased propaganda and then he as governor of the CNB instead of talking objectively to those students, instead of telling institutions both advantages and disadvantages, and then opening up this public debate which is objective, he's already taking a stand and going with that attitude towards the public, and that's the story of the CNB. In addition, they have on the official pages of some polls, commissioned polls where they say, watch out, they say that citizens are for the introduction of the EUR, all normal surveys such as Eurobarometers that are official surveys, say Croatian citizens are against the introduction of the EUR.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140697	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140698	Thank you, beautiful representative of Škibola, you have now touched one important thing that is directly related to this topic, which is, therefore, that the CNB is not independent, because if it were independent then the presentation to students and citizens would be as objective as you yourself said, and we therefore see that the presentation is unilateral, so subjective and goes in favour of, therefore, certain stakeholders, which are those who believe that the EUR-o-RH will bring some great benefits. If the EUR is as positive as Governor Vujčić thinks, let him explain why it was not introduced by Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and some other countries, Romania, which have the conditions to introduce the EURo, means they can introduce it tomorrow, but they do not want to introduce it, and let him explain why the very countries that do not introduce the euro have the largest economic growth currently in Europe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140699	The next replica of the respected representative Gordan Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140700	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Bunjac, thanks to the unfair and contractual provisions of the bank, has robbed Croatian citizens in all CHF loans, EUR and kuna loans for about 15 billion kuna. We can thank this for the inaction of the CNB, but not by the government and all those who should take care that the banks in the Republic of Croatia operate properly. The verdicts, they're all in favor of the debtor. However, after court rulings, only private money is obtained, but globally when it comes to a hundred, 200, 300 000 people, they will not get their money unless they go to the courts, so I ask you, what do you think, is there some sort of strain between the CNB and the government, and even the banks in some lobbyist, invisible circles where they work together against the interests of Croatian citizens even though the Constitution says that the Croatian people choose their authority and that he is the holder of power, what do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140701	The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140702	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexic. So, banks took Croatian citizens illegally about 20 to 25 billion kuna, that money somewhere, it's somewhere, it might be, I don't know, HNB employees, it might be on the bank's account, but it's somewhere in people with a name and last name, so it's not some kind of energy in the air, I don't know that it's on the desert island, but it's in the hands of living and real people, and that interest you mentioned, the ropes of the government and the wire of the banks, is viewed primarily in that they all see Croatian citizens together as numbers, and not as people. We're the numbers for them, we're the muse cows who need what they should just exploit to the point of unconsciousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140703	Thank you very much. Does the Prime Minister want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance respected Zdravko Zrinašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In short, in the context of the opinions given by the Government during the summer last year, it was in the direction not to accept this proposal solely for formal reasons and formal nature in terms of waiting for the European Central Bank's position and opinion which we were obliged to obtain under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So, all the reasons that are listed there are exclusively from the formal nature, in the meantime, if you remember we got those answers from the Central Bank, they were incorporated into the newer Law on the State Office for Audit, and this opinion basically results in the government having no objection to the National Bank's audit, but we joined the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union asked us to obtain the appropriate opinions that we must obtain and respect, and we were obliged to do so as Government, and we did. Here, and I just wanted to point out, so all these reasons that were, were of a formal nature at the time when we didn't have the Central European Bank's views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140705	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140706	Thank you. Dear Secretary Zrinasic, I am interested in why the Ministry of Finance, after all my proposals, did not act as it was proposed, because it was not based on the unfair business practice of banks already established, interrupted the practice of legal decisions, namely that the banks unfairly agreed interest rates, and it was found that all credits agreed before 2013 and interest rates were not fairly agreed, and banks continued to use these unauthorized interest rates after 2013 and did not change their business, the court collective judgment found that you should no longer behave, but the Court can not stop it, but only the executive and legislative authority can do so, however, because you did nothing about it and because you did nothing, I am talking about the government in general, the citizens were abducted for several billion kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140707	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140708	Here, thank you very much, I'll just be brief, given the subject and question... The question is not closely related to the subject, and the subject is clear, as you know, is not from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, is perhaps the Government and the National Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140709	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140710	Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that the Government should consult the European Central Bank, and that is correct, however, the entry of the State Audit into the Croatian National Bank does not involve interference in the monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank. This is what is important, so the European Central Bank should not be disputed about the State audit entering the central bank and controlling the financial situation, because that act does not change, because it does not interfere with monetary policy itself, but only monitors and controls the business of the Croatian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140711	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140712	Thank you very much. You are absolutely right, I agree with you, that is what we were saying during the debate on the Law on the State Audit Office itself, I have here in front of me and the materials from this very period where we have commented on the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Statutes of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, and in the context of the proposal where they have been broken or flaunted in relation to monetary independence and the tasks to be done by the Croatian National Bank and this part of which you mention. In this regard, we also put in Article 19 a provision where the Croatian Parliament can always ask the State Office for the Audit to carry out an audit of the business of the Croatian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140713	And the esteemed representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140714	Thank you very much. I am pleased that Mr. Secretary of State said that there is nothing he can do about the Croatian National Bank without the approval of the European Union, in fact you admitted that Croatia is not an independent state, it is very bad. I would make it very simple for the public, so it would be about like you say I'm an independent integral person, but my wallet controls Branimir Bunjac. So if I control what happens to your wallet, how do you spend money, or if you can't decide for yourself in any way, then you forgive me, you're not an independent person. That's one example for you, I might say it very simply, but that's how it is for you. A state that doesn't have absolute full control over its own finances simply can't be called a state, it's one of the main preconditions of someone's integrity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140715	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140716	Thank you very much. So, as you know, we ourselves have talked here about the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and in the context of monetary business, not in terms of the competence of the Croatian supervisory authorities to control certain tasks, including ultimately, there are also mentions of certain other services, rather than the supervisory services of the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140717	We will now move on to the debate, and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140718	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. He also said at the outset that according to the position of the MOST Club, it was necessary to support the applicant's request that, without the opinion of the Committee, expert opinion and the conclusion of the committee, which would come before us of the parliamentary representatives be postponed until the meeting of the Committee and of course, he would not agree with his colleague that the opposition is obliged to hold the quorum for the majority, but the majority is obliged to have quorum, which means that the majority of the committees do not function. I would start here from what we've been saying from the beginning, what MOST asked for the revision to enter the CNB, it was a number of disputes, leaving the session while we were still in the government, we couldn't possibly accept that the audit would enter the CNB. I believe that this law that you are referring to on the State Audit that can enter the CNB, in fact, that's the proposal that we've been making as an opposition, MOST has been giving these legal proposals and other colleagues who are here, now not unfortunately in large numbers, and I'm sorry that there is no SDP, but the SDP has never even supported that initiative, they have systematically supported this way of working by the CNB that the audit, so it has the right to enter the CNB, but not in the way that you've given. You basically said a message with this law, the revision can enter the CNB, but the CNB is not obliged to give the review report, which means that the revision can't simply do its job to carry out the audit if the CNB isn't obliged to give its report, which means you've only filled out the form to the public to say that we're the ones who solved it, but that's not true. I would say that what the CNB said before me, at least national and least Croatian, has been silent for many years, that 4 billion kunas, not on interest, not on interest, are allowed to foreign banks, but on commissions and fees of 4 billion kunas, annually the banks were drawn from the Republic of Croatia, from our citizens of the economy. 4 billion kunas were spoken of somewhere less than 500, fees and commissions, about which the CNB kept silent, about which the ministry kept silent, I when I talked about it here by getting this information, of course, not being an expert financially as a colleague of Peric, who did quite well during Calmeta in Zadar and these indicators were really and visible, but I got the information, and then even I was attacked, it's not true that 4 billion kunas in banks, that CNB is silent. By the way, you may remember 2016 a colleague, excuse me 14 colleagues and colleagues, when in addition to 621 employees of the CNB di Governor can decide on his own salary, salary height, without invitations to receive people, when he has called a competition on chefs who will love white wines with broken fish, and with a little heavy food, Dalmatian prosciutto, a little tighter, stronger, black wine, you remember, for a man who wants and mocks us. He's doing it at a point in his bars together with Emil Tedeschi and his friends and it's his right, I won't choose his societies, but the fact that this man is a key problem of the CNB, of course, you re-elected him at the time of the Croatian-Russia game, when the public was, of course, in the national enthusiasm because the Croatian team made a huge success and expected this game, you re-elected him, governor in the morning, here I remember when I spoke not choosing the man who participated in the greatest systemic risk... The economic and financial economy of the Republic of Croatia has allowed Agrokor to use bonds with no coverage of 10 billion kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they then let Hansel Todorovic know that 10, they knew about it,... to print paper plain money 10 billion kuna, and hence, it hit not only the Croatian economy, but also monetary sovereignty and led to financial risk, and you appointed that man. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just... and filed a criminal report immediately against the governor because he is the head of the Stability Council who is obliged to monitor the financial stability of systemically important companies, who was obliged to inform HS every 6 months about it, not that he did not report, did anyone know that there was this system... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] who has information. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the key person who allowed Todorov and Agrokor to print money on paper, so he could pay your bills on paper, the bonds without cover, 10 billion kuna, and that man today is your governor, you chose the gentlemen, the culprit who had it, so he took a financial hit on the monetary impact and financial stability, and he put the economy at risk. I've filed criminal charges, of course the state's attorney's office is doing nothing according to the County State's Attorney's Office which should be competent, but I've also met the state's attorney, i.e. The state's chief attorney, and that's what people were doing out of the profession, so it was exactly what they saw, and no one has denied this what I just said, no one has denied it. He is a man who was a deputy governor or a CNB who allowed 15 tons of gold to be sold, who gave them the right to sell gold owned by the Croatian people to cover these holes in order to love food, red, and to love food with wine and drinks. Who gave him the right to sell gold? I'm sorry that my colleague Shuker left, so that he, if he was the minister, so to explain to us who gave him or the governor, I don't know who made the decision to sell himself, so gold. I would go back to the Council of Stability, that council has, so, most of the CNB, the head of the governor, there's a representative of the ministry, so the Ministry was aware of it, and Minister Maric knew everything, so he knew from, and he knew that this would all come in fact that it was a game that would come, of course he kept quiet, he didn't keep quiet, he participated there, however, all that was done with the accumulation of the debts of Agrokor and the other companies, so, everything knew the Governor, everything. I would also say that when we talk about gold, that it is incomprehensible for the citizens of the triba to explain to them that someone is selling gold without citizens, and we are one of the few states in an environment that has no gold in its reserves in the Croatian National Bank. I can't even get a reason why we sold those 15 tons of gold. I'm asking the former finance ministers, now there's not one, but they're tribaling to be, the ones most competent, who are the most formed and I'm sorry that there's no Minister Maric here. They allowed in Croatia not only to sell gold, not only to someone printing on this plain paper,... to pay the bills of ten billion kuna to our farmers, to our cattle farmers, for this reason we now have a Sinjska milkmaker who imports Serbian milk, and we do not have Croatian milkmen who would sell our milk to the European Union market and the Chinese market, and to sign an agreement with China on milk exports, and some protocols,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Milk, we don't even know if there are any cows at all, the tribal would bring, I said the Protection Act, means protecting special Croatian cows... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Croatian Systemic National Bank has destroyed Croatia, from borrowing to, and especially when we talk about savings credit cooperatives that have flown into honey and milk, filled with barrels and become owners mostly on the island of Rab there, so fellow Boric, he well knows what savings credit cooperatives have done, but they can't do it in Hungary or Austria, you know in Hungary they got their feet in a tour, leg, and savings credit cooperatives, in Austria they declared that they were illegal, persecuted by their state attorneys, but in Croatia and savings credit cooperatives can operate illegally, financially means, financially giving their money that is not described by law, nor by CNB, it's a trial to ban and stand, protecting those people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the introduction, we see that our governor is too active about the introduction of the EUR, so he imposes his view that the Croatian tribunal introduces EUR-o as some kind of obligation, does not even allow them, our policy, to accept it by Andrej Plenkovic,... even if it is discussed in a transparent manner so that a referendum is called, so let the people decide, that the experts who are for the EUR or against the EUR-o come out with their position... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the public to say what will happen if the EUR or what will not happen, is Croatia ready for EUR, they do not even allow me to refer to the referendum, is this Government a referendum irrelevant, they are the Constitution, this Government is not interested, that the people from, by the Constitution, the government is passing from the people, and that the direct declaration of the referendum is essentially a democratic act, but he says, the governor, we must introduce the EUR-o, says the prime minister we must introduce the EUR-o, while other countries that are much stronger, much better have a condition, the possibility of introducing, in the euro area, that is, the euro zone, that is, introduce... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] national currencies, no, they prefer it and do not want it, Hungary, they prefer it to be a note with the character of Tajani, Juncker, Tusk, this one and the characters of the historical Croatian, and secondly, I do not see any explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't see any other explanation as at this time of MPs, but as an ordinary citizen, so there's no public debate about it and those voices that are experts against the introduction of EUR are very quiet, while the media space is buzzing from the front page of Governor Vujčić who allowed me to repeat that a man of ten billion kuna of paper turns into money that... on paper is signed, that pays your bills, that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The economy, take a systemic risk in the Republic of Croatia, then talk about what we are at today's level, and what it is about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, he would go back to that biggest problem, of course, that I support this proposal, we were giving amendments, we had our proposal, and most of the opposition, now he gave it to a colleague from the Living Wall, we spoke to us from the MOST Club, colleague Lovrinović, all of them, we were all on a similar trail to the revision to enter the Croatian National Bank, but not in this way that the Law says that we are, now the State Audit will have the right to monitor it, and in fact you said al'Croatia bank is not obliged to give the Report, which means that the State Audit can't make an audit because there is no Report if this is not obliged to give the Report. So it's still a mockery with all other institutions, and the main favor of the Croatian National Bank that works in a way, I don't know who's leading them, and at least Croatia, is at least folk and does not protect our citizens,... in terms of credit, here is the franc case, nor the savings credit union of foreign Austrians robbing Croatian, illegal Croatian citizens, and they did not protect the Croatian Monetary Fund and for which reason, Croatian monetary stability and financial stability, nor the economy, which is why I have filed criminal charges against the entire Stability Council,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The finance departments, the CNB as key and the HANFA, all of them felt that they had given the opportunity to one man, one company ten billion kunas without cover, which means that they then made it possible for one man to be a money printer without cover. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, we do not even print Croatian kunas in Croatia, we import our kuna, we import Croatian Kuna. Where is the Croatian Kuna printing? So is there in Croatia, no, it's a bit,... These are our kunas where our Starčevići, Radić, we print in other countries, so we were unable to allow Croatian people, experts, to print Croatian money than we are importing Croatian kuna, and Croatian Kuna, and so much about the CNB, the governor whom you have re-elected and I call on the state's attorney to say who made it possible to make the biggest risk of financial, economic, systemic, monetary risk, which is in the case of Agrokor, that is the CNB, and you did not, gentlemen of the ministry allowed the government to enter the audit into the ministry, but to protect the CNB from entering under the screen, we put in the law to enter the audit, and basically the CNB is not obliged to report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means, you've protected any possible revision in the CNB and we will, of course, support from a colleague from the Living Wall. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140719	Thank you. Now we stop for a moment because it's one hour, so we'll have a stand on behalf of the club. We will now return to the point we discussed, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140721	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. So I'd just like to refer briefly to what Representative Bulj said on behalf of the MOST club. So he asks why the CNB sold 15 tons of gold, or all the gold she had. That's a good question and even more important question is why the CNB sold gold for 6x's lower price than it is today. So not only did we sell it, but we sold it far below the price. And the answer is basically very simple. Why did Governor Rohatinski do this, he did it because it was in his personal interest. After he sold that gold, he was named the best governor in Europe. And even fighting him, I remember that the newspaper said that he was an excellent protector of the Croatian economy against recession. That the Croatian economy will now be resilient to all the blows that can come and we saw that it happened exactly the opposite, that thanks to Governor Rohatinski Hrvatska, she entered the recession much deeper and harder than any EU member state and that the worst of all has not recovered today. So these countries we like to compare with, so-called Transition, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania returned to the 2008 level but Croatia has not returned to that level yet. Therefore, the award that Governor Rohatinski received was not because he would do something useful for the Croatian state but only because he was useful for foreign financial lobbys, which is why he was rewarded. If by any chance he had worked really for the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens he would never have won the prize, the more he would have been punished, he would probably have been removed. It's the same thing with Governor Vujcic, we're talking about introducing the EUR. Why does Governor Vujčić want to introduce the EUR in addition to everyone, past every logic and beyond the will of the citizens? Well, because he hopes that thanks to that, he will personally gain mercy in foreign financial circles, that he will be once again not known to be elected governor, that he will be well. His position as governor is the way to make his career come true. He's the most important thing to himself. Just like Governor Rohatinski. They're not people who would work for the citizens, they're not people who would work for the people, they work forever and primarily for themselves. And should I at all point point out here that, behold, miracles have recently been won by Governor Vujcic for the best governor. So it's just that they're just going on their own, they're looking at this to protect that chair they have, they're looking at to eventually stay here as long as possible, if they could stay for the rest of their lives and pass that chair on to their son, etc., so they're basically acting like some medieval feudal, not like humble and modest citizens who are there to sacrifice themselves regardless of how they end up themselves. And so long as such people, therefore, lead the most important institutions of this country so far, there is no prospect for us, there is no future for us, and until then, of course, citizens will have an opinion on institutions as they have so far, which means that they will be evaluated below average or evaluated by a unit at best by two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140722	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Lovrinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140723	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you have now described Mr Rohatinski's role in the collapse of the Croatian economy and I agree with you. I don't know if you're aware that just a few days ago Mr. Rohatinski promoted his book called the Crisis in Croatia, in which he describes everything he did against what you're saying. So if he had worked well, however, he now says in the book that he would do everything in a lot of different ways and that the state should be more engaged, that more expansion monetary policy should be, etc. Let us remember that 2, 3 months ago and Martina Dalic also published a book, so if these people now need to write books to clear themselves, they are still seeing all the members of the Borg group, right, all of them doing the same with Agrokora and the National Bank, etc. How do you view this phenomenon of writing books and trying to wash your cheeks?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140724	The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140725	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović. Well, I didn't know that Croatia has so many writers. We really have a writer on export, I guess some of these newly-composed writers might get the Nobel Prize, they're certainly this valuable, valuable records, they'll certainly read it hard and leave a mark in history. So here's the writer Sanader, let's say, he wrote a book of this, and I believe that he's about to get into the book, that kids are going to read it, and there's certainly a lot to learn about how to sacrifice for their people, how to be modest and simple about this sacrificed, good father of the country. We have Vladimir Seks' book, too, and it's definitely the same thing, and it's famous literary works, and I'm glad that it says that I believe that in the future and this memoir of Governor Vujčić's will be very much waiting for that book to come out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140726	Dear Representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140727	Thank you. I will now tell you one cartoon from the work of the Croatian National Bank. You see, at a time when steel came in when we were just discovering what banks were doing illegally, we discovered that banks were illegally negotiating interest rates and that they had deceived us all for this contractual provision and that they were robbing us by growing interest rates, willingly, in a way that they would raise them as they liked them, without mathematical exact parameters. And then we looked for the CNB page and on a page dedicated to consumer protection, it said in one place that the interest rate in banks was determined and it was written by the bank's administrative decision, and that was fine by them. And we objected that it was wrong, but they did not remove that notice that it was okay and that it was legal until the Supreme Court confirmed that such a way of changing interest rates was illegal. Imagine how long it took them with their expertise and knowledge to change that notice that was actually contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140728	The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140729	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexic, so I just can't believe what you just said that our good banks would do to us. Well, these are very honest people sitting in these administrations, they're just humanitarian organizations. So do you know how good they have made for us, so that they may take us unlawfully? I just can't believe it, so it says I don't know in the morning list I read that it's not like that. I really don't know where you get that information, this one maybe, maybe I don't know you should check it out what you're saying. However, what is absolutely certain is that if you want to be a banker then it is definitely best to open the bank in Croatia, because nowhere will the invested EURo have more money than you have here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140730	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, President Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140731	Thank you, Vice President, and here we are, on behalf of the HDZ Club, supporting the opinion of the Government, which means that we reject this proposal to conclude on the request of the State Audit Office in the Croatian National Bank, not because we oppose it but because this government has created preconditions of quality with the new law, and so far it has been possible for the State Audit Office to revise and control the CNB by means of its programme and annual plan. Therefore, whilst this request came and adopted a new Law on the State Audit Office, which gives great clarity to the State Audit Office and defines Article 11th revision of the CNB, i.e. Article 16 of the Law, allows the Chief State Auditor to adopt an annual programme and work plan of the State Audit Office and, among other things, to revise all that the State Audit Office itself can control, so that all entities of the state sector of the units of local and regional, regional self-government, legal entities financed from the budget, legal entities to which it is the founder of the local and regional self-government, companies and other legal entities which are owned by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the units of local self-government and regional authorities have majority ownership of the shares, legal persons of the daughters established, legal persons whose founder of the Republic of Croatia, etc. And among other things, what was both the newspapers in this and the political parties and the CNB, including legal persons using EU funds or international financial mechanisms. So it's a very broad day for the authorities of the State Audit Office to come in and control the business between these legal entities and the CNB as well. Therefore, there is no fact that the State Audit Office cannot and is not allowed in any way into control. When we talk about the CNB itself, then each of us can enter the website of our CNB and see the business and audit report that took place in the past 2017. Among other things, we can read that our international reserves at the end of 2017 amount to 15.7 billion euros, that they have grown over 11 years, that they are also in this 2017 exactly achieved a loss of 2.7.2.64 billion kuna, which is actually the first negative result since 2003. But if we read the same thing well, then it is also an obligation under international accounting standards where exchange rates are first obtained in the report and losses must be shown as a loss or as a positive result, and after that is the distribution of the profit itself, i.e. the loss and thus the burden on this case of high reserves of 15.7 billion euros is due to correction or distribution and is reduced by that profit, i.e. international reserves. The negative exchange rate difference of the CNB if you look at the same thing in the explanations is 0.4 billion euros or less than 2.3% of total international reserves, so this is what our CNB achieved in 2017 in euro. However, when you look at that in 2017, the euro was significantly strengthened compared to the US dollar, then you can also see in statistics that the European Central Bank also achieved a exchange rate, a negative exchange difference of 6.3 billion euros or 10.1% of reserves. The central bank of Germany achieved a minus 6.5 billion euros or 3.9% of its reserves. The Bank of Spain, 5.5 billion euros or 9.5% of its reserves, Austria of a billion euros minus or 5.6% of the reserves and Finland 0.7 billion euros or minus 8.1% of the reserves. So it's not something that happened only to us, but it's precisely because the euro is what I said significantly strengthened in relation to the US dollar in this way that there was a negative financial result and that exchange loss was achieved in that amount. So in this case we can't say that the CNB has a special and different status than others and that it hasn't done business according to the rules of the profession, however, when we look at both the relative and absolute amount then we see that our results are much less, or less the negative exchange rate difference compared to all the other countries that I've counted. When we want to look at also everything that was done during 2017 and then you will see in the report only the business of the CNB that there was an expansion monetary policy, that the conditions of financing were improved and that we know that interest rates fell. The fiscal situation has also improved significantly, and then we see that certain trends in Croatia have shifted considerably, and when you look at our achievement in two years of budget surplus, public debt cuts. Also, capital reserves and surpluses in the current and capital account are higher, already for the fifth year in a row. And in this year it increased by 4.4% in 2017, while in 2016 it was 3.9%. When you look at interest rates, then you see that the average interest rate on new kunas, the housing loans in 2017 were 3.9% while in 2016 it was 4.6%. Exports also increased by 6%, 6.1%, export and import ratios cannot be satisfied but exports are growing. In addition, it should be said that 82% of savings in the euro in Croatia while all total liabilities of domestic entities are related to the euro is over 73%. So that's what it's all about when it's said that Croatia is a highly euroed state and that's all those arguments that should be mentioned and that speak for the benefit of one day, not tomorrow, but when all the specific preconditions for entering the euro zone are met, so RM mechanism 2 and beyond. So all these preconditions that must be met so that they can achieve positive results as well as possible in order to reduce that currency risk in order to have even lower interest rates, in order to attract investors and in such a way that all other transaction costs that exist now are as low as possible. So, you have to read facts and what you can read and everyone's available on the CNB's website and also the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140732	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the Living Walls in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak So is the Power, of course, of course, the Power. [[Intruder Alexic: I SNAGA.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140733	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with my colleague Peric that she spoke about this CNB deficit, the causes are known, it's all right, I don't see any big problem in this, but the problem of the functioning of the CNB is in its inaction, in its failure to treat banks that are unfairly operating and all of this non-treatment of the CNB is being poured into both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. When people see me often say again this one's in Swiss, I'm not just talking about Swiss at all, I'm talking about the unfair business of Croatian banks in general. And this time I'm going to talk about a sphere called the unfair interest rate where the CNB could and had to prevent and resolve the unfair business of Croatian banks because it is its task as a financial market regulator, as a regulator of the work of Croatian banks. 20 years ago, foreign-owned Croatian banks began to apply a contractual provision in contracts to change the interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision. They agreed on a variable interest rate which was allowed but agreed that the interest rate would be changed by a bank decision which was not allowed. And we've found court that it's not allowed. And I've already said it in the replica, but I'll say again, on the CNB's pages intended to protect consumers, it said that the bank's administrative decision to change the interest rate was allowed and a normal phenomenon in bank operations. No, it's neither normal nor allowed to appear in the business of banks, it's something that's forbidden by the Law on Mandatory Relations and it's something that's not allowed either when it comes to legal persons or when it comes to consumers. The mandatory relationship law is clear, the contractual provision must be either specific or specific. Where the interest rate is concerned, it shall be determined if it is fixed, if variable, in order to be quantifiable in the contract, the exact information on which the interest rate may and may be changed after the contractual relationship has begun. What are the exact figures, so let's say some fixed part of the interest rate that we call the popular margin and the variable part of the interest rate, which then depends later on the change in interest rate in the future. This variable part of the interest rate must be market-based and must not be dependent on the will or on the borrower or on the borrower, it must be a market element that is verifiable, which is explicit which is clear. By 2013, it was not in the Expensive Credit Act, for example. Exactly defined how the interest rate should look and then the banks said that because it was not defined then they could not correctly negotiate it. That's a big lie. On the contrary, because this was not precisely defined, banks had a much greater freedom to define these elements of interest rates in the way they might be better off, as they might be a little better suited. However, they took the liberty of defining it so that the interest rate would be changed by the bank's decision and then, as a rule, the interest rates grew. In the case of loans with a currency clause, the Swiss franc which had the lowest interest rates at the beginning was also in that part of the heavy fraud because they would negotiate a low interest rate, lower than in other loans, and then, very soon after half a year, they would increase those interest rates even up to 50% above the initially agreed interest rates. Because if you increase the interest rate from 4% to 6%, that interest rate did not increase 2%, it increased 50%. This means that the credit price has increased 50% and by a voluntary decision of the bank. And then since we kept pointing to this problem, the government of the Republic of Croatia found it appropriate to react anyway and that these elements should finally be defined in the rules of interest. Therefore, the amendments to the Consumer Credit Act, which entered into force on 10 January 2013, established that the interest rate must consist of a fixed part and of a variable part which may be EURIBOR, LIBOR, could be NRS or some other element, I think it is the vault records when it comes to kunas. And what did the banks do? In the new loans, they began to negotiate the interest rate correctly, and in the existing loans they found appropriate and that it is okay for them to define, on the basis of such legal provisions, a fixed part of the interest rate in existing loans themselves, to define the variable parameters and only the debtor with which they have already agreed the credit notice from today is so to you. And the CNB said again then what banks are doing is right and is in line with the law, and Goran Aleksic and his company continued to claim that what banks are doing is not legal it is still unfair and again arbitraryly define the interest rate. However, in order for this to be established, this has to be settled and the court has found so. However, only the one who went private to sue the bank he got that money that the bank robbed him and only he got the right to the banks to do it so really unfairly. The one who did not sue, he continued to pay such an unfair and unlawfully increased interest rate. And nothing to anyone. The CNB doesn't react, the state doesn't react when it's cut. And what's going on? Banks continued from 2013 until 2018. For 5 years, they argue that they correctly established the interest rate under the Consumer Credit Act in existing loans, and now it's legal and now it's all right. And debtors continue to win in court disputes that unfortunately no more than a few thousand. On the basis of one such court dispute, where it was found that the interest rate was not correct even after 2013, the Bank submitted an audit to the Supreme Court after the ruling had become final and required the Supreme Court to establish that this interest rate since 2013 was still in order because the bank had defined the parameters under the law. However, as established by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia by its verdict, by its audit, in fact, by its decision to revise 1172/18, it found the following, it found. The banks' appeal to the law and the banks' claim that they acted according to the law by defining these parameters does not mean that banks have acted by law, the Supreme Court does not say. In order for banks to act according to the law, they had to call each debtor individually, agree with him these parameters and arrange them, because if they did not do so again it is a voluntary change of interest rate, it is again a voluntary determination of the margin, it is again a voluntary determination of the parameter and the period when the interest rate will change. According to my assessment, there are 300,000 loans agreed before 2013 in which banks continue to apply such interest rates that they have not agreed with the debtors. And people are not aware of it at all, today I was talking about a ruling just for the EURo loan where Petar Janjic, whom they call the Tromblen War Name, received EUR 3.177 of overpaid interest due to this because the bank is exactly the way I described changing the interest rate in his credit. However, he is one of 300,000, he is one of 300,000 people who could sue the bank and get his overpaid, overpaid money, regardless of the credit currency. He's one of perhaps 5,000 who's already sued the banks, he's one of maybe 100 that's already got a conviction in his favor. This verdict is still not valid and will follow the appeal at the County Court, so the County Court may determine its power in a year, so the bank will appeal to the Supreme Court again and then there will be a review, and there will be some waiting until the final decision. And that's how it lasts, lasts and lasts. So for 20 years, the banks took Croatian citizens and nothing. That's why none of the governors answer, not a single vice governor who may be a lawyer. At this very moment, the vice governor of the CNB is Bojan Frass, who is a lawyer, who is an former lawyer, who knows the subject very well. However, he is not very active in ending such illegal behaviour by Croatian banks. He leaves it to the insurgency, whoever sues will get the money, who doesn't sue who cuts it. So what kind of state are we? What kind of state are we watching as banks have taken 15 billion kuna from Croatian citizens, part on interest, part on the CHF currency clause, looks at and says you have a collective verdict that's powerful, found by that collective verdict that you are right, in a collective judgment, says that banks have negotiated an unfair interest rate, in a collective judgment, that banks have negotiated an illegal currency clause of CHF. The law says that all lower courts must act by collective judgment if you sue privately. Here you go to court, press charges, two, three years from now, there's gonna be a final verdict, and you're gonna get your money. Here you go. Well, the truth is, during the procedure, you'll have to pay 10, 15 grand, 20 thousand kuna, but it'll eventually pay you back. What problem? And then a man who has four thousand, five thousand kunas, who has 2.5 thousand kuna annuity with those 2.5 thousand kunas needs to go to a lawyer and I'd tell Mr. Lawyer that you represent me, you know, the bank has robbed me of that, that and that. Says the lawyer I know, I know, but you know I do a job like you, I have to earn a living and I'm sorry but you have to pay during court proceedings all that happens, I can't follow you for free. I can't wait to get paid by the end of the trial because I'm doing this job that I do professionally, I have to earn for my life, for myself, for my kids who are getting schooled at this point, you know, so it won't work for you. Because people would definitely sue if they had some guarantee that they wouldn't pay much till the end of the court dispute. But they'll pay, they'll pay, someone maybe 7, someone 10, someone 15, someone 20,000 kuna. It takes 2.3 years to get that money to follow up on its own trial. And I guarantee these people that they'll get their money back, they will. But they say again but I don't have that money, how I'm gonna follow myself through court proceedings. And that is why it is a great sin of the CNB, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament that is being watched wide-eyed by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who have been robbed by the illegal work of Croatian banks, who have left their own eyes to sue even though they have no money to sue, many of them and I am terribly frustrated because as many times as I've talked about it, it doesn't come to someone's mind, it doesn't come to someone's mind, it doesn't come to someone's... It's still going on, it's going on and on and on and on and on people are going to go to court on their own and ask for their rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I will not give up, I will also try to make another further awareness that it is necessary systematically to resolve, the government of the Republic of Croatia also and you here in the assembly after making a final decision in the case of Franak and it will be very soon, when it decides on bank audits, it will take one systematic solution to get back to people of theirs, I would say about 15 billion kuna. It will be good for people to get rid of the burdens, it will be good for the state because part through consumption and GDP, through the budget learns in the Republic and it will be good for banks to finally understand that they must not behave in this way because they do not behave in the EU anywhere but east of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140734	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. First, the honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140735	Thank you. On this proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office submitted by the Living Wall and the SNAGA, I would like to stress that the moment the new parties came to the Assembly, the financials, the CNB, the banks, the poor monetary policy, the Swiss franc, etc., no one here should have called against these institutions before. It's that in the meantime, the ruling coalition, she realized that she couldn't function like this anymore, work, that the pressures of the opposition, that the State Review must and finally enter the CNB, check what's going on there, because we have a lot of reasons to worry because there are a lot of things wrong and we really need to find out how things are in the CNB. What did they do by ruling? They're reminding the citizens that... They are watching and here you are the first to change, for sending a state audit to the CNB I submitted means on behalf of the party We change Croatia, while I was in MOST, later, unfortunately it was rejected then, I am sorry that MOST when it was 6.7 months in power, he could change the CNB Act and could already enter the state audit but here's what turned out to be so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Afterwards we founded a party We changed Croatia and we asked to amend the Law on the CNB and the Law on State Audit. You see, we sent an explanation to the European Central Bank, and they wrote a whole book explaining that nothing is laughing, nothing can be done. And these here in the government when something comes from Brussels, from Frankfurt, they mean right away only that they don't worship, so there's no choir or anything else. And now this effort that endures the Living Wall, so we're not giving up, we're people who talk about these things, so to the institutions and phenomena, we have very similar views as we talked about it in the last parliamentary elections. So, on behalf of the party We change Croatia can say we will never give up until monetary reform is carried out and we are in fact a real opposition here, not those of the SDP, they chose to bring in the current governor, and you see this government has kept it, so these are people who fit everyone, which means they work in the interest of power centres both domestic, foreign, but not in the interest of Croatian citizens who are poored by interest in various institutions, and businesses simply carried a heavy burden of paying off interest rates, unreal exchange rates, etc., etc. Now, what did this government do to get all of us together, let's say, goes under quotes? They came up with a proposal a few months ago to amend the Law on State Audit, but you know how, in a way, they formally show the citizens that they are doing something and that they will finally send that State Audit, but when you look at it unlike what the colleague just said, it has nothing to do with it. They're their authority, State audits when they get to the NBH you know nothing about. They can drink coffee there, see how many employees there are, how many cars, buildings, and that's it, consumable material. Nothing they can question business, financial business, employment, etc., etc. But when they get into the NBH you'll see then all the media, because they're all addicted to this set, about this ruling trade coalition, they'll say all the big bells, here we finally see we had the strength to send there. And you know what the report will be? No, so I can't, the State Auditor who normally does his job in quality, she won't be able to find out anything there, why, because she won't be allowed because they've been arranged, the legislator arranged here by this majority, that they can't do anything and can't come up with anything. And not only that, this proposal of theirs is the degradation of an unprecedented state audit. You know why? Because in this law no one has ever supervised the work of the State Audit before, look out, not by this law they said, but now you will have your auditors, we will find several commercial auditors from the market so they will oversee what you are doing. So it's the pressure on the State Audit in terms of now you'll be doing just as careful as you're doing. It's just like setting up a couple of judges for the Constitutional Court and saying now they'll be watching what you're doing in the Constitutional Court. So, it's all farce to the farce and it's a game for the public. However, let's talk about concrete things, see how much is being manipulated by the polls on the possible introduction of EUR into Croatia. So the CNB turned into a PR agency, you noticed it, they pay big money to the media to notify means what they want citizens to hear, and they say that the EUR should be introduced, that it is good, etc. If it's good, and for 30 years you can object to the meaning of someone else, but I've been doing 30 years, my entire career, monetary policy, international finance, international economic relations, so I've written a lot of books, scientific papers, so if we're going to talk about it that way, we'll sit at the scientific table, and we'll see who wrote and how they can speak. No, but all you cheerleaders here, you from the ruling coalition, repeat as parrots what the CNB says, that is, what Prime Minister Plenkovic says, because they must be added to Brussels, and the current governor must be reprieved because he has received a new mandate. With you and we will never light up you know and therefore NHB pays on our account, our money, implements the propaganda campaign that the EURo should be introduced into Croatia. So if you're watching her, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, all better than we are, they're developing faster, they have much more growth rates, Sweden, which has long been, Denmark, Britain never intended to, so what people are rushing to do, so you've already destroyed us from the CNB, you from this government, you father us the last, last nail in Croatia and as an economy and as a society. So where is your humanity and responsibility? You're operated on it. And that's why, dear citizens, we only have one task, we only have one dilemma when elections come and elections come, whether you go out, whether we go to the elections or not. If we go to elections or you 45% that don't come out, then we'll move them you understand, and we'll finally get rid of these servants of each other and of foreign and domestic interests. And if you stay at home, it's more important to you to have a barbecue, watch TV, read the newspaper, then don't complain, then travel to Ireland, look for a job in Germany. And every one who does not go to the elections, and thinks that he defies the ruling team or those who used to be, so he has the wrong one, he doubles his voice to them. So what does the CNB do when it talks about polls? No survey so far confirmed the CNB's intention to introduce the EURo. All polls are negative, all saying that most Croatian citizens do not want the EURo, that we are not ready, that the economy is in a difficult situation, we are growing slowly, that the debts are large etc., etc., but one poll was ordered by the CNB, it paid and only in this survey it turns out that Croatian citizens want to introduce the euro. And even in that poll, they manipulate the answers, so what should have been placed in the category that they are against the introduction of the euro, they added it to the euro-introduction category. These are unprecedented manipulations and means the governor around with members of the government and with elected economists because they always perform in the media, they walk through colleges, high schools, there, there, so there's a fierce propaganda campaign that's not objective, where the other side can't make its arguments, it's all available to them, the media, everything is funded and thus, it's this problem with the CNB, we'll never get to the green branch because the CNB is a bigger problem than Agrokor, it's a bigger problem than shipbuilding, and until we solve it, we'll roll in the mud of the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140736	Thank you. We've got a replica of a respected member of the Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140737	Dear Mr. Lovrinović, I agree with everything you've just lied to. Today we had a press conference precisely on the topic of CNB, the introduction of audits, State audits, etc. And it actually shows how little the media was interested in that topic at all. So for those press conferences that are content, which talk about important things, which talk about economic policies, monetary policy, which is crucial for the development of a country, that media don't want to come, they don't want to convey what's said, they don't even want to mention, and when someone makes certain circuses, when we have some incidents here, fights, etc., then the same media is the first to report to the Croatian public as if that's what's most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140738	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140739	Dear fellow Skibola, this ruling coalition lives on affairs and circus. They don't deal with the things they need, why? And on the one hand, because they don't know, they're not up to it and on the other, because they have to listen to those and for them who want something else, but the CNB has achieved the historic greatest losses so far, 3.8 billion kuna so far, has created a new external debt of 2 billion euros, meaning total debt in Croatia. Therefore, we have an institution that destabilises, rather than taking care of financial stability, it destabilizes the financial institution itself. Today there was talk here that negative exchange rates, that it was from the mother-in-law, you know, that it meant nothing and that it couldn't be paid off. In the years when the CNB had positive exchange rates, it was paying into the state budget, then it wasn't soap, you know, and now that it's negative, in billions, now it's soap. When we get there, we'll sort you all out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140740	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be co-workers of Sasa Djujic, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate, and the next debate is being the respected representative of Marina Scybol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140741	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here we are on Friday at 2 p.m. discussing an important topic for me and this is about the entry of the State Audit into the Central Bank and we see here currently 3 MPs from the ruling majority but what's most interesting is that on my right, by the opposition MPs, there are no MPs except the three of us, which is also some indicator of the situation where actually a good part of the representatives of this topic are not even interested. Today we had the same press conference where we pointed out about these poll manipulations, which is done by the CNB, means Eurobarometer, which is officially let's say the EU-level survey tool, he clearly found that in Croatia, citizens are against the introduction of the euro, at least at this point. It means that Croatian citizens are over 50% against the introduction of the euro and then you have the CNB where on the official site they publish some surveys in which they state that Croatian citizens, more than half of them are actually for the introduction of the euro and then put those who put some answers as if you were for the introduction of the euro for 5 years, whether you are for the introduction of the euro for 10 years and then put it all under the same hat and say those who are for the introduction in 5 years or 10 years are actually for the introduction of the euro. In some ways, they cite the term "water to its mill" since official polls do not support them. We have already discussed so many times the necessity of entering the State Audit into the CNB and I agree with the fact that since the so-called MPs appeared. Third options, we finally have in the Croatian Parliament that we have even talked about the People's Bank, that the State Audit should enter the National Bank because it is neither SDP nor HDZ, that they never considered it to be being re-examined at all, that it means that the CNB is a private institution, it is independent according to the laws itself, that it is independent, it is considered as if the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government, no one should de facto have over the powers of their monetary policy that they conduct, it should not have jurisdiction over the State Audition to enter the Central Bank even though they have public money even though their salaries in the central bank are twice as large and from the end of the end and the prime minister, the President of the State, means governors and vice governors, all have unreally huge salaries, although they work in the central bank are in public sector as well as well as others. He will often say from the CNB that they are implementing an expansional monetary policy. We as economists, we know, which are marked, expansional monetary policies, these are lower interest rates, high money supply, higher liquidity in the system. And today in the financial system, we see that none of this is like that and when you ask them if you're carrying on an expansional or restrictive monetary policy, they'll say that we're carrying on an expansional, and in practice, the effects are diametrically opposite. So you have shipyards that fail because of the indifference and the systematic destruction of that branch. Because who destroyed the manufacturing industry, shipbuilding, agriculture in the Republic of Croatia? So this monetary and exchange rate policy, which does not suit domestic producers, does not favour, production and our industry, but favours this import lobby and these foreign interested entities, which then draws billions at the expense of our domestic production and at the expense of our people and Croatian citizens. You can see what billions of banks earn here and then transfer these billions to the bank of mothers, which are mostly stationed in Austria or another country, and Croatia has no dare to say, no more significant benefits, because we do not tax banks either in Croatia. So it's not at all questionable for us that banks are worth billions of these and there's no money missing in the budget, and all the time they're talking about demographics and the fall of birth, that the population is leaving, that the state is dying out and all that stands for, all this is reality, but when money needs to be raised, where money can be raised, because it means that banks wouldn't leave the Republic, because they would put some small tax on certain financial transactions or on some of their profits. Well, they wouldn't automatically leave Croatia. So it's the government of neither the HDZ nor the former SDP either, you'd dare say or think about it. Boris Vujčić rarely comes to the Croatian Parliament. We have a situation that the regular report that the CNB should submit is not here in the Croatian Parliament, for 2 years now means it has been missing since 2017. It has also been telling, what it thinks of this insinuation, what it thinks of parliamentary representatives, and what it thinks of Croatian citizens. Because we are representatives of Croatian citizens here, the only thing we have is that kind of legitimacy, because we are democratically elected in the elections, and those in the Central Bank think that the system works, the way they function in the Central Bank. They function in a non-potistic way, where, if you have the advice of the CNB and the management of the CNB, they put it in the advice of the CNB of the same people who are in the management of the CNB or they say, when you tell them they need a state audit to enter the National Bank, they say so why should the State Audit enter the National Bank, so we already have a State Audit in the National Bank. And then when you go deeper, then you see, that they actually have these private audit houses, which they pay themselves, and now we should expect that these audits are objective and objective, those reports that we serve here. So I say again and again, it is very essential and necessary for the State Audit to enter the Central Bank. There's no interference in monetary policy. Therefore, the EU or European Central Bank's operating contract will have no objection to the State's audit entering the Central Bank. Just so that this legal solution is made realistically and concretely. So I don't think I know why we've waited until today, to even start talking about it, let alone pull something real. In this proposal of the Living Wall, we see, mentioning an exponential increase in external debt, which is a fact, growing externally, growing internally, growing public debt. But the question arises, one key question, which you won't even be able to hear from the profession, at economic colleges, who are the creditors of these debts that the state has. So I'm interested, what are these banking institutions, to which is the Croatian state the most indebted? It means that we would actually know who is in charge of our economic system, we don't know that yet. So when you ask, who's the biggest believer of Croatian public debt, then you're having trouble getting that data, and you're actually hiding it in one fog, people don't have that information, they don't know, and we're slaves to ignorance and misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140742	Thank you, we have several replicas of the respected representative Lovrinovic is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140743	Thank you. Dear fellow Skibola, you are the Master of Economy, the youngest representative. We remember last year, so in the 7th month, this Parliament elected three vice governors and what happened afterwards? Those who came to the CNB immediately changed the systematization of jobs, until yesterday's two vice governors, were left without a public tender, and the old governor provided them with entanglement in two new sectors, as the chief economist and business director who never existed there, and these new vice governors got some new jobs, significantly reduced volume, etc. That means if you think it's a decision-making assembly, the council has chosen these people to do exactly those jobs that were systematized until their election. So, the governor played the decision of the assembly, and that's why he just went on the initiative. to call for a public hearing at the Croatian Parliament. [[Employer: The Answer of the Honorable Representative of the Scybolus.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140744	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović, so here's when you mentioned the choice of governor of the central bank, i.e. I remember when the procedure for selecting the Vice-Governor and the Governor of the Central Bank itself was held, and then the debate was only on the Committee on Finance, and when that item of the agenda came to the Croatian Parliament, none of the MPs came forward at all to discuss the election of the Governor of the CNB. You know why it was? It was because at that point there was a semifinal, Croatia was playing against England and they put the second day in the Croatian Parliament to be put in the morning, meaning early in the morning to discuss the election of central bank governors. So that's the exact information and data I'm talking about right now. Anyone he's interested in can check it out, there was no real debate at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140745	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140746	Thank you very much, Mr. Schibol. So you said one interesting thing, which is that the Croatian economy is standing up and up all the time, having a demographic disaster, but at the same time no one is changing the policies that are being led. And that's really an interesting question like this, so no one connects theory to practice. So if things don't work out then obviously something needs to change. Certainly something should change with monetary policy, however, no one is changing it. It seems to you I don't know who to burn on fire and then put his hands in the fire again tomorrow. So I don't know something could be learned from the whole situation and the word, so look, maybe we need to change something, maybe we can be more careful, maybe we can get around some problems, solve things differently, etc., but there's obviously no problem with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140747	Thank you. Now, on behalf of you, forgive me, the answer of the esteemed representative of the Squishy will be answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140748	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac, so you're on a good track, and you might notice, for example. that in this system of political parties exchanges in this bipolar system of exchanges between HDZ and SDP on the body that the difference between HDZ and SDP is in some pure ideological guidelines that are not so significant. So these ideological guidelines when the HDZ is being changed, and SDP is coming, some of these are different thoughts, different ideologies, but ultimately what is most important, and that is economic policy, and that is monetary policy, and the joints remain unchanged. So both HDZ and SDP have identical views on monetary policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140749	Thank you very much. There are no further reports, and that concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we do. I don't have any applications, we don't have any applications, we'll vote when the conditions are met. [[/Intruder: Did you bring your application?]] Here, I'll give you my word, though I don't know who you are, because you're nothing, you can't, don't make a circus out of this convention as usual, can't be a colleague of Pernar because you didn't report it, you could have reported it. Does that say anything? You're really making a joke out of this assembly. Here are my colleagues, my colleague, I don't understand the order of the Rules of Procedure, which do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140750	Mr. Vice President, when will you finally put on the agenda for the 2017 CNB report? Why for 22 years, Mr. Rainer you're a serious man, why you protect, who protects, I suppose you don't, but who protects in this assembly [[Intruder: When conditions are met.]] I'm not breaking it, so you've already cut it so much that I have nothing to break, you understand. [[Agreement: colleague Lovrinović, do not violate the Rules of Procedure knowingly, please.]] You've shut our mouths, why someone's afraid to put our bills here, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140751	Please. Here's a colleague of Pernar's on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140752	Thank you, Your Honor, I would like to say that the CNB is the most important institution and the most important institution in this country. If the CNB is doing its job well or if the money regulation it is leading is correct then we will have enough liquidity in the country, we will not have a credit crisis, we will not have situations with illegal credit cooperatives, we will not have a situation with the currency clause on loans and we will have a situation where the rate of real inflation is, but in that I mean inflation not only increases prices, but also the growth of wages from year to year, we can gradually repay our loans more and more easily. Generally known is the fact that money is worth saying the rules, as well as all other goods, means by increasing the money supply, the price of money is falling, i.e. interest. So if the CNB ran one expansion monetary policy, then the interest on loans would be lower than they are. Of course, even if the econstrictive rate was lower. Not only would interest be lower but, as I explained, it would also come to not only rising prices, but to growing and paying. In Croatia, however, wages grow poor, e.g. in 2 years, they rise by 100 kuna or, say, 5 kuna pensions. And of course it's the consequence of that nothing to say about the regulation of money in the country that we currently have of rabbit-freeness, the fact that people collect bottles, that people run out of the country, that wages are nothing. And now what's going on? The state offers us as a solution to this agony what ladies and gentlemen? It offers us imports of maids from Egypt, offers us imports of construction workers from India, but not because the maid is not in Croatia, not because construction workers are not in Croatia, but because these workers went to clean up rooms in Austria and Germany and went there to construction sites, that's the problem. So what we have in Croatia is that we have too little pay, the state has to raise the wages urgently. If the state won't raise its wages, the trend of moving people out of our country and so on will continue. the substitution, i.e. the replacement of the population. The cook will be from the Philippines, the construction worker will be from Bangladesh, as I said the maid will be from Egypt or from another country etc. And we will meet in a situation that at some point all these foreign workers will seek the rights that the hosts have. That's what people aren't aware of. In England when there was a wave of emigration of these migrants, from third world countries, what the English thought, look, they're going to do jobs that we're not going to do. I mean, he might want the first generation, but already the second generation of these migrants will seek the rights that the English have. And finally what happened? The fact that the English are a minority in London, that the mayor is a human, immigrant, or person with a migrant background that has nothing to do with Europe, and that is the trend that is happening. The Germans are becoming a slow minority in more and more cities in Germany, etc... And what are we gonna have in the end? In the end, we will have that in Croatia, instead of Croats, living foreigners, these foreigners will begin to take up political functions in this House. But not strangers in terms of the indigenous minority that have been here for centuries, but foreigners that we've never seen in these areas before. Why does this government run that policy, why it pushes that agenda, I don't know, I don't understand it. Do you understand? Perhaps you, Mr. Reiner, know better than I do, explain why wages are so low and why our country instead of young people who want to have a family, instead of solving their housing issues and paying their directors, the state does the same thing for migrants who come from third world countries, why, I don't know. Why isn't there room for homeless people in the apartments and there's room for asylum seekers? Because the EU is a priority for these third-world migrants, not domestics from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140753	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, President Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140754	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So as it started out like that and ended up, we couldn't have a quorum on the board at 8.45, we didn't have it at 10:30, we've got it even less here right now, there's currently 6 MPs if we count and vice president of Parliament Reiner and that's basically the main reason why we have it the way it is. So if we were doing some circus here now, maybe if I took this water and spilled it on the floor, maybe I'd end up in the central journal. But as long as we've been trying to solve the real problems of this country or the media, neither does the representatives care. And indeed citizens often wonder why my pension is small, why my salary is insufficient to survive the month, why there is no investment in kindergartens, in schools, in roads, in railways, in unacquainted air transport, why the problems with shipyards, with agriculture, with social welfare, why we have so many homeless people, why we don't have enough independence, sovereignty and freedom. The answer is very simple, because of this here, here's the answer. And simply, so long as this situation doesn't change, until this House has a different role, it means the role of general gentlemen of the Parliament to appear in their workplace. So when they show up at their workplace to do something, to decide, to think, that they're willing to stand up to their party bosses, that's when we just don't get better. This can only be done in a way that comes to a completely new, unexpended people because these have long been spent. The SDP fell apart on the seams, they just don't exist anymore, I don't even know who's a member of the SDP anymore, who's not, who's the chip, who's the buyer, who's going to be bought tomorrow, etc.. The HDZ at the time of Franjo Tudjman went to the elections alone, without any coalitions, won in the first round, now they must, as many ruling coalitions as there are 18, 20 parties, so more God, the father cannot count who makes everything the ruling coalition. And with these coalition partners, I can't get more than 30% of the votes. I can't do it just because of this electoral system, and let's just say it's a party machine that handles these elections they're still in power but they're not even a shadow of what they used to be, that party is deeply intertwined with factions, mutual conflicts and hatred and it's going to happen to the same thing that happened to the SDP, only when it loses power and then some new parties will open up and some new options, and it's good that all relevant polls show that among young voters, especially those up to 30 years old, a living wall absolutely dominant party. And great forces fell and the Karadjordzevic dynasty fell and communist parties fell and Berlin walls we think will never fall, and so this policy will fall which definitely brings nothing good, but here it is still alive and will unfortunately continue for another time. Maybe if we wake up, if we break up, maybe already 26.5, we can change some things in three and a half weeks. Maybe it's possible that this government is simply going down and it's just a question of what we're going to decide on, the decision is always just up to us, as we say, changing yourself, so you're going to change the whole world. So much for today, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140755	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate at this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will see each other again on Tuesday, 7 May at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, first reading, P.Z. No. 633. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-03-0.u140756	A proposal for a conclusion on the submission of a request to the State Audit Office at the CNB. It is proposed by the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Representatives' Club. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion on the referral of the request to the State Audit Office in the CNB, which is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that the proposal for a conclusion did not get a sufficient number of votes, 79 were against, 12 abstentions and 12 ZA. Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, the first day is in the week, so we have the first debate on behalf of clubs, free speech, the first in line is a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please.
