ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127657	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. We're starting a plenary session. Agenda item: - Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2019 The proposal for an act is based on Article 172, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Affairs. I would like to ask the proposal's representative to give us an additional explanation of the proposal, respecting Secretary of State Andrej Metelko Zgombić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present to you a Plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2019. In accordance with the current dynamics of the process of harmonisation of legislation with the EU acquis, a programme has been developed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the takeover and implementation of the acquis, which forms an integral part of this legislative harmonisation plan that is now before you. This plan presents complete and timely information to parliamentarians on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2019, resulting from the obligations of EU membership and harmonisation with the acquis of the EU. Taking into account the fact that EU legislation is constantly developing, Croatia is changing as a member of the EU and during 2019 it is necessary to take over and implement certain parts of this legislation. For the proper transposition, implementation and implementation of EU law are primarily responsible for Member States and the uniform application of EU law in all Member States is essential for the success of the EU and for the promotion of the interests of the Member States themselves and ultimately for EU citizens, because more effective enforcement of EU law is also important for Croatian citizens because this really affects our daily life. Here, for example. The law implementing the current Regulation prohibiting unjustified geographical blocking on the internal market will remove the current consumer restriction on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. This means, among other things, that customers will no longer be able to be blocked, they will not be blocked access to websites or webshops in another Member State where the same products are offered at more favourable prices. Now Croatian citizens will also be able to obtain, directly from another Member State, one goods under one more favourable condition. Let me say, perhaps, when it comes to the area of transport, new digital contact points will be introduced that will be introduced through the Law on the provision of information on multimodal travels that will allow all interested citizens to learn in one place all information about all modes of transport from one place to another including all modes of transport, road, air, sea and rail. So it will be the same model that will make it easier for citizens and choose the best way of travel in the directions they want. It is, of course, important to point out that the key role of the Croatian Parliament in this process is because the adoption of national laws ensures the implementation of new legal acts by the EU. Therefore, this year on 10 January, the Government adopted a programme containing a one-year programme document listing the activities it plans to list, before you see a list of 45 laws and it is orientationally prepared in a way that under all 45 laws are divided into 4 quarters so that in the first quarter the Government intends to refer to the Croatian Assembly of 19 laws, in the second 14, in the third 9 and in the fourth 3 legislative proposals. It should also be aware of the new acquis that lies in the list of those before you, the Croatian Parliament will pass laws that correspond to those obligations arising from infringements initiated by the European Commission before the EU Court of Justice in relation to the Republic of Croatia and, therefore, that list is such that, in the course of the year, if a particular need arises, it will occasionally be further coordinated. This programme is therefore really an instrument for planning and monitoring the takeover of legal property and also has a preventive effect in order to prevent some new infringement procedures against the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the adoption of this document confirms the effective functioning of Croatia in the conditions of EU membership as well as the promotion of national interests through the participation and creation and implementation of the EU common policy. The role of the Croatian Parliament in this is crucial and irreplaceable, and nextly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this House adopt this plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the legal acquis for the current 2019. I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127659	Thanks to the secretary of state, we have several replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Glasonović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127660	Your Honors, ma'am. and Vice President of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The EU implements hundreds of legal rules every year, and we have a total gap between the rules and the law there on the ground, it wants to improve that is the first issue. The second question, when we are already calling for EU gain, how is it possible until... They mix, what about that strange word of lustration, when in other countries, the post-Communist people were removed from the former system, and with us the illustration was carried out in the opposite direction and they came back all those people, out of that former tradition legally, from the SFRY. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The final question, why are these laws selectively implemented, e.g. to pay back the withdrawn pensions, during communism and the condemnation of the communist regimes, it is just a wonderful idea for me, to apply the EU regulation story.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127661	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović, next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127662	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, copying EU legislation is the least of the problems, the House votes through the directives, however, the implementation is at stake. The question now arises why the Croatian state does not declare an exclusive economic belt, does not protect its territory, which will make it possible to sell agricultural land in Croatia by 2020, now that Slavonia and other parts of Croatia have been emptied, while the Hungarian Party will not be able to buy agricultural land. The question is why Dalmatian workers, designer workers, do not have the same rights as they do not pay their salaries in bankruptcy, while in other countries it is an obligation. What does that mean? That at the centre of the directive and implementation in that center of the problem is that what we bring is not being implemented. Not a man of these directives and ours, we didn't have the infrastructure to implement these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127663	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Bulju, the next replica, the esteemed colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127664	Dear Secretary of State, it is said of the EU acquis, you have set an example that now Croatian citizens will be able to shop freely from web stores from any member of the EU and you have listed this as one benefit. And you're not actually saying one key thing, that we've even entered the EU, because that's what Germany, Italy and France wanted because we're the market for them. And what little production we now have, this way of doing it, we won't have and that's what you're aware of. We have entered the EU, only as a market, we don't have our own production and then we go on a level playing field, so we who don't produce anything will be able to buy anything from us, and those who produce everything, our citizens will be able to buy as much? So, I don't think you speak the way you should speak, I believe that this position of Croatia in the EU is not good and that Croatia will continue to be in its worse economic situation, because of our government's non-modern policy, above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127665	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic, the next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127666	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In addition to these Eurosceptics, who think everything is negative that comes from the EU, I can only warn them and ask you to communicate a little more clearly, not that something is coming from the EU, but also Croatia participates in the creation of these laws. So our government, our ministers, our representatives in the European Parliament, they participate there, no. So, probably fellow Bulj, now and as a candidate in the European Parliament elections, will be able to participate in the future drafting of these laws, and then perhaps a bridge or some new Bulj in the Croatian Parliament, will not say that someone sent it to us. So we need to be aware of that. We don't have enough benefit from the EU, for that is Mr. Bulj and Mrs. Secretary of State, responsible for our government's inability to do business, and where we see Minister Tsalac warning ministers that the terriblely slow withdrawal of funds is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127667	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. I would only beg that you do not disrespect any of your colleagues in your sayings. Strange style, but well, here you go, which Bull's injures the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127668	I, colleague Maras, would have been the best minister since the '90s. Mr. Infringement. 238, where he said a series of inaccuracies about me, inaccuracy. And he, as the best minister, must know since we entered the EU, that 2/3 of Croatia is empty, that we have no more employment, the only thing we have taken from the EU, is that we have taken their bad and harmful names, such as. TV operators in the Republic of Croatia earn 42% of the margin, while in the rest of Europe below 20% And talk about it, not about me being me or not being... [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Bulj.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127669	Thank you, fellow Bull. Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure does not speak of untrues, and I would also ask you to not belittle your colleagues in any way in your own statement. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127670	Thank you very much. He was injured in 238, but you have hurt too, given that you have not warned in form not only the expression of your colleague Bulja, but I support my colleague Bulja in these activities that he is saying, that we are fighting for better Croatia, for the settlement of Croatia, for teleoperators to our citizens like those in Belgium or Germany, the bank also means we are going to fight for our Croatian citizens, but not in a way that we say that someone imposes something. But let's fight for strong Croatia in the EU, Mr. Bulj, and I commended and thank you for your compliment, I'm really glad you recognize this quality from the '90s. Go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127671	I thank you, too, as I have told my colleagues to Bulju, and I say to you, I do not think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and please do not abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, if you have listened well to me, I have warned and asked my colleague Bulj not to belittled, and when I say a warning to you and him I will decide, you will not. Let's move on to the next line, dear colleague Rechim Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127672	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary, firstly I think this is a good practice for the government to know in advance about the legislative action programme regarding the adoption of EU legislation. However, I am interested in something very specific, whether the adoption of these laws and amendments and the addition of the law will take into account the law which requires that amendments and additions be made in the case of 4 or 5 amendments or not, and the addition of the law must be passed. We have a practice of having 10, 12, 15 changes and additions, which is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127673	Thank you, dear colleague Varda. If the committee reporter would like to take the floor, no, thank you very much. I am opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Marijana Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127674	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected assistants, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so as we are told today, the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the EU for 2019. At the very beginning, it should be recalled that the Republic of Croatia has confirmed its international position by EU membership, and it also benefits the opportunity to be part of the legal, economic and development community or to share common values with other members of our European family. In this regard, 6 years in a row, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up a government plan for the taking and implementation of the EU acquis for 2019, which forms an integral part and plan for the harmonisation of legislation, or a document containing obligations arising from EU membership. As we have heard in the opening statement, this plan presents a comprehensive information on the legislative activities the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2019, which concerns the further takeover of the EU acquis into national legislation. The EU is a legal community, i.e. the rule of law community in which we seek to share common values, and therefore the uniform and consistent application of EU law in all Member States is crucial in order to give legitimacy to the European project and to strengthen the implementation of our policies. This is also in line with Croatia's expressed aspirations as signatories of the Roman Declaration in which we share common faith in the future of the EU and continue to develop the European project with an inclusive approach to all. In areas other than the exclusive competence of the EU, there is a useful instrument of the principle of subsidiarity which aims to protect Member States' right to make decisions and act. What should certainly be pointed out is that the introduction of this principle of the treaty sought to bring as close as possible to the citizens. The mechanism of such early warning enables us to warn national parliaments by adopting reasoned opinions of non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in EU legislative proposals and that is something that will certainly come to light in the coming years of EU membership and further development of our parliamentary practice. In addition to the regulations which constitute legal acts which are automatically and uniformly applicable in all Member States as soon as the Directives enter into force, Member States shall require that certain results and objectives be achieved but shall be left to them by the source of implementation. We hold the key that the objectives of a number of directives that are being translated into our national legislation after we have passed them here in this high house, indeed through the government and all state institutions are being implemented in order to achieve the objectives of European policies, which have become a reality for Croatia as well. Effective enforcement of EU rules is important for all Croatian citizens because they have a major direct impact on their daily lives. Even though the EU's acquis is constantly changing and developing, and the global circumstances are also very dynamic, it is important that Croatia adapts its legislation and is competitive in the common European market, thus ensuring effective application of EU law in favour of all its citizens. Following this, as I have already said, the government of the Republic of Croatia has this year developed and adopted a government programme to take over the implementation of the EU acquis for the current year. It is therefore a one-year programme document which represents an effective instrument for planning, monitoring and taking over legal property. This plan provides for the adoption of 45 legislative measures i.e. new laws or amendments and additions to existing laws which are divided by quarters, which are primarily taken over by the EU's new acquis. However, since the acquis is a living organism that is constantly changing and developing and new directives and regulations are adopted, so the programme and the plan are constantly complemented. Most of the proposed legislative measures, 33 out of 45 of them, are proposed by the government to be passed in the first two quarters. We must certainly stress here the importance of timely taking over of the EU acquis because otherwise, the Republic of Croatia would be exposed to the European Commission's response and initiating proceedings before the EU court, because of violations of the right, i.e. potential fines. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the plan in question, as the adoption of such a act confirms that it is also a responsible and functional Member State that knows how to position its national interests in the creation of EU common policies with a clear objective, that consistent implementation of these laws goes primarily to the benefit of Croatian citizens and brings them concrete benefits and better quality conditions in everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127675	I thank my esteemed colleague, Balic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127676	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable State Secretary, Secretary of State Ms. Angela Metelko Zgombić and Associate, with my associate, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to ask in this brief debate a few questions which I am interested in as a representative and as citizens of this country for a purely reason why I am not informed enough or have failed to be informed either by my pea or by someone else's mistake, and we will now try to see it in this debate. And as far as the proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan is concerned with the acquis, I understand it this way, you came with the plan, I suppose that this plan has been made reasonably because based on what is changing from the EU to legislation, which regulations have been passed and that we don't really have much choice but to accept that plan. Now, what we're making up here, you didn't bring it to the dots so it could change now. So we'll certainly support this plan. And what I noticed was the same from the plan's proposal that, here's a concrete proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, although it says that in the third quarter of the plan, he was already at the debate in the first reading, so I think that sometimes and faster things are going on, which is not good if they are, and that's what I think the HDZ colleague warned in her debate if she's late with that plan because then the Republic will suffer certain sanctions and I think that there is competent, if I understand you well, the EU court. Forgive me for not using my terms well enough, but I have deliberately reported to this debate to show that although all things are not clear to us, on the other hand, these laws that are being passed and EU regulations and everything that is changing in European legislation are very much about our lives. And good colleague Maras mentioned that our representatives there are also directly involved in the development of such legal solutions. And that is why we need to be informed so that we can act in the right way and that we can and then warn when something is at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia made think this summer of 2017 of a decision on instruments for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU. In fact, the decision defines everything, the procedures in which the whole procedure is implemented, thus defining a statement of compliance of the draft regulation with the EU acquis, which has so far been the form and instructions for a comparative demonstration of compliance with the provisions of the EU regulations. And of course in the laws that had the P.Z.E. mark. We have seen what this statement looks like in this House, and we have seen what the form looks like, and in the form are defined the ways in which each regulation is in line with the EU regulation, whether it is fully harmonised or partially and then an explanation of why it is not complete and why it is partly. What I would now like to ask the Government's representative, the State Secretary, is that she is being signed as the Coordinator of the Foreign Ministry and individual co-ordinators from the Ministry of Law are changing. Now I don't know if they are changing according to the needs of a particular law or if they are the permanent coordinators of EU issues in a particular ministry, that's what I'm curious about. What is the coordination between you as a co-ordinator at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and these people in the ministries? Is it exclusively based on an information communication system that we should praise even though I do not have enough information as good as it is, how efficient it is, but according to what I read this system is very well functioning and there, everything translated into Croatian, is automatically obtained data from all who need it, to the individual representative of the ministry to comply with their provisions. So my question and the representatives of the ministry is are you satisfied with the suggestions that come to an assessment in your ministry and you have to give your court on this, return if something is wrong? How many such returns were there, and how does this coordination work? That's one question. And as for the information communication system, past, it has been introduced since 2002 according to this information that we can find on the Internet. At that time, the implementation cost 2 million 800,000 kuna. Last year in July there was a public procurement for the expansion of this system, the truth not for this area, but there was, I think 420 thousand kuna invested in the system, so much was advertised in public procurement. Is the system constantly renewed, enhanced and beneficial to ministry representatives? And so, not to be longer with this debate, so it's clear that we need to adopt this plan as soon as possible to continue this work, but what I'm kind of interested in, that's what I said in the introduction, as an advocate, and it seems to me that I'm under-informed and somehow I have the impression that in the media is poor information or the media is not interested in everything that's happening in the EU, and it's a little bit coming to our citizens and because of that, it seems to me that's one of the reasons why there's so much Euroscepticism in our society. I can't tell you how much it is now, but there seems to be a certain number of Eurosceptics. People are rightly skeptical when they have no information. So we should do everything, we can't influence the media what they're going to write but the government of the Republic of Croatia can invest more engagements in this direction that with more information coming. Here we follow and regularly in the information shows of the Brexit case, but yet it is not, it is all something on the surface, accepted and what happens when they want to go out these things should be presented more to the Croatian public, especially when it is in the area of legislation. Finally, our education system, the functioning of the EU, I don't know how much the education system is represented, here's the Foreign Ministry should make one co-ordination with the Ministry of Science and Education, see which colleges or in which cases it is represented, that this is even more presented to students to understand how the EU works, and that perhaps once we can make it clear to ourselves whether we are part of the EU who actively want to participate in that Union or who we are, unfortunately, who we are fully imposing, we are resisting it, it will cause damage to us. To make these things clearer, and especially to young people because on them, they are the most interested in their future to express myself that way because according to the data we saw and in the U.K., the majority of the older population was to get out and the younger ones were to stay. Here are some things I ask you to do. And as far as this plan is concerned, we need to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127677	I thank my colleague, Sagar. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So this is a regular procedure, a practice with which we started more than 13 years ago, when we started negotiations on Croatia's entry into the EU, and when they started in regular programmes, they listed laws that comply each year with the EU acquis. Sometimes people may be puzzled by the fact that the same laws often appear on these lists. So you often have the same title of the law that appears, it is mainly because, on a European level, certain elements are changed even very small things in one of those same directives or one of those laws, and it is necessary to bring our legislation into line with it, so Croatian legislation and the truth as it is said, that, of course, Croatian representatives from the European Council to the ministerial councils to different working groups at all levels participate in the making of these legal documents, so it is not something that is unknown to Croatia and only comes and no one, then, on the Croatian side we see for the first time. I would like to support it as a criticism in some way, all of us, by what my colleague, Sagar, said and informed. So, I also agree, it was our problem from the beginning to often be mystified that what the EU means and this communication with the EU is simply one of our creations, so the creation of 28 or unfortunately seems to be soon 27 Member States and does not have a lot of mystics about how much money and various things are being talked about, the EU budget is one 1% of the Member States' budget, the GDP of the Member States, unlike the Croatian budget, which is about 50% of Croatia's GDP, so it tells you about the strength of statehood, it's not a country, but it's simply a common European project that is both economic and peace-based, etc., and there are many elements that are of interest to the general public, as some comforting data from one of the research that I attended yesterday, which a young group of young people, young researchers from Zagreb University, interdisciplinary, which has been looking at young people in some cases between 15 g. and in their data, the studies they were doing, received for this group of 15 to 24 that, however, 57% of those categories believed that EU membership had brought absolute benefit or mainly benefit, so in those two categories, the rest was therefore 43% divided between those who believe that neither the benefit nor the damage they consider to be greater or smaller. So, it shows that even though these young people say when they ask them where they are informed, they say absolutely the advantage in large percentages of all others, they have social networks. So the most information is provided through social networks and television, radio, newspapers, I won't even speak, it almost doesn't exist as a means of information. So it's probably talking about a platform to say it or an area through which information could and should go and be able to reach that population while at the same time warning us because, of course, there are all kinds of wonders on social networks, I think there are accurate information, false information, fiction, madness, and, of course, very interesting things. Thus, it is without any criteria and with the problem that this young population does not have some selection criteria. What's this about? So I think that this is something that my colleague, Žagar, has well warned that the problem is, and we are actually taking this opportunity to maybe try to reach a population in this direction and through social networks that is now alone and clearly ill-informed, still has a dominant positive attitude towards Croatian membership in the EU. The main reason why I came forward for this debate is to ask one question and it concerns the fourth quarter programme, so for the end of the year, in particular point 43, which is the Law on posting workers to the Republic of Croatia. We don't know, of course, I don't know, I guess you know or people from the resolution ministries know what the content of that law is, I don't know what it's about, but if it's the law that's talking about the ability of workers from other countries to work in the Republic, then I would recommend that I try that law even if it makes it easier, that we try to put that law somewhere earlier, so before the tourist season. Our main difficulties and the main shortage of workers occur in the tourist season. So if it's something like that, then I think it would be that it's not in the 4th quarter, but that it's possibly in the 2th quarter, 1st or 2th quarter. But since I don't know exactly, I'm just trying to dictate from the title, then I suggest this suggestion, if it's not about such a subject, of course it's not relevant here. We will certainly support this alignment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127679	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic. Next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127680	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have been promised upon our entry into the EU, that we will have more freedom, that our country will come to a greater degree of democracy, however, it is my obligation to inform you that today, the Supreme Court has decided to ban a strike at the SDF Harvesters from the parish. So in a combination factory and other agricultural products, the strike is forbidden. The arguments are very similar, the ban on strike in Croatia Airlines. So, if workers feel that they have been denied their rights, if they rebel in the EU for this reason, they are banned from strike in Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, whether the workers of Croatia and this SDF harvesters from the County knew when they were entering the EU, that workers had no right to strike in the EU, that is a central issue. I don't think they are, I think this alignment with European directives, now you're calling probably guidelines, you're not telling people that freedoms are going to be even less, you're convincing them the other way around, freedoms are going to be even more. Otherwise, the workers of the SDF Harvesters came on strike on January 9th, as they demand an increase in salaries of 740 kn gross for all classes, as well as an increase of 8% on special working conditions. From the very beginning, the administration didn't want to hear their demands. And when she saw that almost a month of workers did not give up on the strike, she addressed the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court in Croatia, in the EU, you guess, to whom he ruled in favour, he did not judge the workers. In August of last year, and the County Supreme Court, they banned a strike in Croatia Airlines, this is important information to my people. We live today in a country where workers are suspended right to strike. When we entered the EU, we were promised honey and milk. We saw after entering, that people fled the country, those who remained, were under the growing terror of power. A new strike ban, in the SDF of the Harvesters, a state over the court, has again shown its face. The misery workers work for in the County, it's really not worth living for. It's a key thing. People there work, literally for no pay. And a foreign investor, i.e. a foreign owner, has earned hundreds of millions of kuna on their work, but is paying them close to the minimumer. And of course, what remains for the workers, the workers remain either open to the end or return to work and serve further are that attitude. I call on workers to oppose capital dictatorships, dictatorships in which capital is above man, where profit is the most important thing, profit is in the first place, and from which people will live, it is not an employer's concern. I call upon workers, not to give up their demands, to fight for them. And apart from the fact that the EU has not given us any more democracy, which we can see from the example of the strike that it is, we used to think, until we were in the EU, that strike is a legitimate thing. The strike was possible in times of communism, it was possible in Croatia, now in the EU, suddenly the strike is not possible. However, apart from the fact that the EU has lied to us that it will give us more freedom, and for example, a ban on strikes, we see what it looks like in practice, it has lied to us in one more important thing. Namely, to open a simple d.o.o. You only need to say 10 kn. However, as long as it takes to close j.d.o. Listen to this, Croatia has a very unstable legal framework, and this instability prevents normal business. He says the owners of the company must have 40 thousand kuna ready to close J.D.O. And now watch what the article says, in order for the entrepreneur to close the firm, it is necessary, due to the slow red tape, about a year. And in all that time, while the company is closing down, that liquidator must pay contributions, Vesna Warsaw, who deals with bookkeeping, says that the cost of annual contributions can come up to 37,000 kuna. Check this out, winding-up costs j.d.o. until this year they amounted to 2 thousand kuna, and for d.o.o. up to 3 000 and 500, but according to the new Law on Contributions, as well as to the orders on the amounts of the basics for the calculation of the contribution, the liquidators of the firms in liquidation must pay a contribution for pension and health insurance until the end of the liquidation process. As staff members of the administration, based on 5491 kuna per month. It's a cost of £24,000 a year. However, if they are not provided on any basis, the obligation to contribute will be determined by the tax administration on the monthly, gross basis of 8448 kn. Which is $37,000 a year, and this is true throughout the liquidation process. Of course, he says, if the procedure gets out, you're getting bigger. Warsaw warns that many will be forced to close down the company because they will no longer be able to pay their contributions. And now they're going to have to pay for it during the liquidation. And now what's going on? You actually have a situation that simple d.o.o. Because of the inability to continue business, the inability to pay the wages, and therefore the contribution, the owner decides to close it, but in order to close it, he must actually draw a substantial amount of money, which he does not have and what will be the result of this policy? I'm asking you ladies and gentlemen. So, the result is that it's advertised on TV opening j.d.o.o. in 10 kn, that's the cool thing, like when you take credit, then the bank has a smiling face, but when you have to pay back the credit, then the bank has a face that's blacked out. So is the state when the J.D.O. is opened. He says, well, bravo entrepreneurs, and when you want to lock him up, then cash in big money, cash in big money, ladies and gentlemen, almost 40,000 kuna. What if people don't have that money? If they had 40,000 kunas, if they had money for business, they wouldn't have gone to liquidation j.d.o. How can you not see this illogicality? So what the EU has promised us, among other things more freedom, and on the other hand, less, to God's bureaucracy, as it will be easier to do business, we see in the scratch, we see in practice that it is not true. We see in practice that the state makes life difficult for people. And those who assured people that by entering the EU, our problems will be solved, I can tell them our problems have only just begun, because the disintegration of the state, sucking and economic capital and human capital from the country will continue. We're going to be left with an empty country, we're going to be left with resources that we couldn't put into function, and we can't put them into function, because we've accepted a single monetary policy. So Croatia, which is the country of the periphery, which is the second poorest country in the EU, and Germany lead the same de facto monetary policy. And is good the same monetary policy for a country that is highly industrially developed and one that isn't? The common sense tells you it's not. However, not only does it convince us that this policy must continue, but we are told that it is necessary to reject the kuna completely and introduce the euro. These are messages coming from a government run from outside, from Mark's square. And someone said, they asked me if the shipbuilding crash was that the state pushed the shipyard into bankruptcy, like that was the end. It's not the end, it's not the end, you saw when the refinery went out in Sisak, it can get worse, it can go even lower. And here was the news yesterday, that even in Slavonski Brod, in Djura Djakovic, if I remember correctly, in one of their groups 170 cancellations is given, 170 cancellations. And then there's the result of shutting down industrial production to say, we have a record drop in industrial production, and what did you promise people when we were entering the EU? You promised them new markets, you promised them we'd now, I don't know, export more, etc. And the fact is that since entering the EU, imports have exploded, production in Croatia has not definitely exploded, moreover, production and agriculture and industrial failure. Where's that going? Where does that take our company? Take Croatia to euthanasia, take Croatia to disappear. And gradually when she said, this Dubravka Shuica of the European Parliament, she said on Croatian television, that 2/3 of which we vote here do not come from the people or from our representatives, but from the EU. When I heard that, I followed. This means that, according to the Constitution, the government and the choice of its representatives exercise real authority, does not actually rule, because decisions, that is, laws are made by neither people nor elected representatives, but 2/3 decisions are made directly in Brussels, and we here only technically confirm them. Is that democracy? Is that the rule of the people? We were told, as well, we'd no longer be completely independent, we'd share independence. Who are we going to share independence with? We have no independence in the EU. She's been taken from us. And if we want to have a modern sovereign state, if we want to have a country where workers' rights will be respected, a country where bureaucratic horror will not destroy people, we must separate from those bloodsuckers from Brussels. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Except that, in the case of blocked citizens, we have a situation where only judges, or courts, can carry out the tasks, we say in Croatia no, no, that will be carried out by public notebooks. Oh, yeah? So when some European practice goes to our harm we have to accept it and, possibly, some practice and positive for us that this wave can't be done by the citizens through public notebooks and then Croatia let's say let's get Croatian legislation in line with European legislation. Then Minister Bosnjakovic doesn't come here and say, "Listen ladies and gentlemen, so I can't do the public notebooks, it's not possible anywhere in the EU." You've turned us into your hostages, hostage to your servant policies, and citizens pay the price. And I hope that this anti-democracy, this totalitarianism that is imposed amongst others and through the difficulties of the conditions for calling a referendum, which, which is tied up and with Andrej Plenkovic saying I don't care what citizens think about introducing the euro, we will introduce it anyway. I hope that citizens will open their eyes and see that the only political party that raises its voice against such a way of managing the country, against, or for the freedom of Croatia, against the dictatorship of the bureaucrats from Brussels, the Living Wall. It's just a living wall. And the media, the media that is in the service of the authorities, this information that I am telling you, they will, unfortunately, often deny it to you. Because if you came to them, you'd wonder what Brussels promised us and what he finally gave us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127681	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We're moving on to individual debates. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127682	Croatian citizens must be aware that by joining the EU they have become part of a single project, the project is called Federal Europe. The aim is to abolish state borders and this goal is largely achieved, the state borders have already been abolished between many countries, the so-called Schengen. And otherwise when Adolf Hitler anecedated Austria in 1938, you know what he did first? So they broke the border crossings first. Then Hitler said that Austrians must give up their own currency. Like you want your currency, we'll give you our currency. Then he said you have to implement the same fiscal policy as we do. Well, you can't be running some fiscal policy in Austria right now. Then he said it must be established, so after the monetary union, etc., ha we must have the same foreign policy. Of course we do. Then he said, so it must be done, of course, and one European army that must act together, etc., etc. The same laws must be prescribed by us in Germany, etc. And what happened to Croatia, they speak as a membership, it was an ancholas. It was an annexion of a small country by a corporate system in which money actually exists, in which credit institutions or banks rule. And in what way do these credit institutions actually paralyze European countries' morsels? I'll give you a simple graphic example. The European Central Bank must not lend money directly to the state of Portugal, for example, not to say, but because it is a '92 mastite contract. the State's direct financing by the central bank is prohibited. Now, look, the state is co-owner of the central bank. It's already between the state and the central banks an intermediary called a private bank has been placed. And what's going on? The private bank borrows 0.7% interest money from the European Central Bank and then lends the same money to the state for 7% interest, 10 times more. So private banks placed as intermediaries between EU Member States and their own central banks are paralysing Member States' interest rates from their own central banks. The debt is growing year after year. The debt total of European countries is growing exponentially. And then these creditors come and say look like a lot of you lived on debt. Well, we don't live on debt because we want to, but because the monetary system defined money as debt, because it banned the state from creating money, because it made the state dependent on money from private banks, and it actually broke it down. And why is that? Napoleon Bonaparte said that the hand that gives is always above the hand that receives. If the state, or if the state depends on the money of private banks and not the other way around, who rules the state? If the state can't create and broadcast its money, on its own, who has power? The government as you yourself know, as you can see, has capital. And these bankers are actually like ticks on a dog. Imagine a dog and now you have 100 ticks and those leeches suck his blood. So the dog will be small, disabled. This is the state of Croatia, such is the state of Greece and all other countries at the end of the European beating. And if we want to have a monetary sovereign state that makes its money, if we want to do our own laws, not that two-thirds of the laws come to us from Brussels, so what's our choice? If we don't want to impose sanctions on Russia, we don't have to impose sanctions on Russia. Croatia can't say we won't sanction Russia. If the EU gives us a directive to send an army to the Russian border, we must send it. We are in the EU, they said, as Professor Lovrinovic said, they told us that we will decide at the European table, so what we decide at the European table, who asks us what from the EU, when you heard that our government, our prime minister said that there is someone who has an opinion and that other opinions that his might have been different from theirs that they accepted him. I didn't hear that, I just hear that when we ask Plenkovic what our opinion is, when we consult with European partners like then we'll say what we think. So can a person who is an independent personality structure agree in such a way of relations? So imagine you ask a woman something and a woman says listen to someone's opinion and she says, "I don't have an opinion right now," and when my husband tells me what to think, what his opinion is, then I'll say what my opinion is. You'd say that woman was humiliated, you'd say that woman, so her opinion doesn't matter. But when one country, when one prime minister behaves like that, then no one sees the problem, and they tell us all the time some fairy tales of gender equality about it, they all have equal rights. What equal rights do we have in the EU? We have a judicial collapse, we have a judicial collapse you have a case in Zadar. You have a case in Zadar that tells you everything about the state of our judiciary and you still assure people that further loss of sovereignty will make our state better. How is it going to be better, how do you think it can be a better situation, if the state is systematically destroyed, deposed of capital, if workers live or work under increasingly difficult and difficult conditions that they can no longer actually endure. It is not clear to me personally, and I believe that even Croatian citizens no longer believe in the lies that were placed on them. I said in time when they were EU jungles, then they told her as winemakers, like you will be great when we enter the EU, as you will open up a market of 500 million people, half a billion people, you will export wine all over Europe, and the truth is that the production of wine last year is 40% rather than before joining the EU. So, the wine production almost halved, the milk cows instead of giving milk ended up in slaughterhouses, cow's milk production is also collapsing, falling. We import potatoes, carrots, essential products we import. We can't even protect our own agriculture, we can't introduce customs to protect ourselves, we can't set up a real exchange rate of kuna to protect ourselves, so if we don't pay off producing carrots, potatoes and onions, then how are ships big or anything else going to pay off? I hope that our people will open their eyes and that they will realize that without freedom they cannot decide their fate, and if he does not decide his fate, someone else will decide, and I ask you Croatian citizens, do you think that someone else will decide on our fate in a way that he will benefit from it or that we will benefit from it, so ask yourself, so ask yourself. And they keep telling you how the EU has given us the Peljek Bridge as 2 billion kuna and they've been waving that Peljek Bridge for the last 5 years. And you know how much only this year will the EU take from us these Western lands, and these men-loving men led by Soroshe. Only the repayment of the foreign debt goes beyond 35 billion kuna this year, for EU membership of 4 billion kuna, will the banks extract a minimum of 2.3 billion kuna through profits. So over 40 billion kunas this year, Croatia gives the west, and the West generously tells us, "Dear Croats, here is the Pelješki bridge worth 2 billion." When we give out 40 billion, no one talks about it on TV, and that Peljesian bridge has been brainwashing us for years. People open their eyes, wake up from hypnosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127683	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, at first I'd like to ask if you can allow me to speak at 11.50 on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127685	I'm sorry about what, what are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127686	Can you let me give this part of the speech at 11.50?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127687	Now you're up to your colleague Lovrinović, if you like, you can continue if you don't want to?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127688	Sure, but then it'll be full of this hall, but good if you can't thank you nicely I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127689	You should have called for a debate on behalf of the club and arranged for a few other colleagues, so maybe that's what it would have been.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127690	All right, well, here's my honor and pleasure to speak in front of a full assembly on this issue that is extremely important, and before that I welcome you both as chairman and representative, the distinguished representatives of the ministry. Dear citizens, we are discussing a topic that is extremely important, about the laws that come to us from the EU, and even yesterday, that 2/3 of all the laws that are passed in this assembly come directly from Brussels, and our assembly has only been tasked to raise its hand neatly and to pass it without discussion. The question is, what kind of future can the EU have, or what should it be to have a future? What Croatian citizens do not know to the extent necessary, and there is no such debate in public media, is that the EU is not a state, it is a union that does not have its own Constitution, has no army, the common police, then, is a project of an unfinished state. It's her biggest weakness and her problem, and she's vulnerable to, say, the United States of America, which has 51 members, i.e. 51 states, one Federation. But in such an environment, we expect and expect the EU to be built as a system of modern states. However, someone in all of us, all of Europe's citizens, has previously passed away from citizens, and that is a huge capital. He took the idea and he turned the EU instead of the Union of Peoples and Citizens into a union of capital. Why does it matter? We can't discuss anything when we talk about the EU, if I don't know these premises and if I don't wake them up. Because otherwise, if the EU does not become a project of the people, the Union of the People, but remains what it is, then it will not have a perspective, because capital is looking at its interests, its citizens are in another plan. That is, what is the thesis, neoliberal democracies, i.e. such ideas leading to the EU so far, and I think that the original founders and advocates of the EU are turning over in the grave, when they see everything now being modelled, ideas, development, or EU leadership. The current policy treats Europe's citizens as consumers. It is a consumer union, it needs to be in line with capital, capital rule, it should be a consumer union. It doesn't matter who you are, what you say, the political system, etc. It's important that you're the consumer. And there must be no limits on that relationship, and as we can see, it's working very well for now. But what are the weaknesses of the EU, even as a project? You see, it has been kept talking and saying that the euro will rapidly unite the peoples of Europe, i.e. the states and create, that all kinds of sovereignty will be dedicated to the supranational formation, therefore, to potential European countries. It has never happened in history that money created a state, that currency created a state, but vice versa. First, the state must be created, in order for it to create its currency and we today have a situation that the euro is the only currency in the world that does not have its own state, it does not have its own state. I won't now, this isn't the subject of talking about implications, hypothetically, let's say that tomorrow the EU stops, where are you going to exchange these euros? In Italy, Germany, France? They'll say, look out, so we're France, Germany, we don't have anything to do with it, but nobody ever talks about it, that's not what they're talking about. Therefore, let us remember well that the EU is the project, that project of an unfinished state. They want it to be a consumer union, not a nation and a citizen. She's well-born. Well, she's threatened by large and powerful disintegration, and we see, unfortunately, that's what's going on. In particular, policy-making in the EU has turned to debt management and discipline in recent years, the debt crisis. The best demonstration we've seen in Cyprus and Greece, and I think we'll be looking at it quickly. We see that the Italian government, which has been chosen, is obviously not at will... which leads the EU and they will no matter what attempt to do with the debt crisis, which will affect Italy, change, demonstrate such a order, that is, such a political system that is there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, respected citizens on these serious issues, no one is speaking in the House. The Parliament is dealing with trivial issues, at 10 to 12 will come here one hundred MPs, the voting machine will come, she will do what needs to be done, after the lamb or what I know at some lunch and that's it. Now what else is there to say? Why is the Croatian bridge so strong in favour of the introduction of the euro, along with the governor of the CNB? First of all, they both have private interests, it's at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of the euro has shown all countries that prices are rising and what we now see is that they are growing interest on borrowing, interest on loans, both for the state and for the citizens. The example of Italy speaks best. A few months ago, Italy, the Italian state could borrow bonds at 1.8% now with 3.7% means you see more than double the Italian debt, i.e., the Italian state more than double the interest. Of course, no one is talking about it, but only propaganda is being conducted, these are not scientific professional works in Croatia, public consultation, this is propaganda where the PR works and where the media which are mostly a springboard, or lever of this government works. Therefore, the euro project, to which it corresponds, corresponds only to importers, bankers, and individual politicians, i.e. their stakeholders. In that sense, to say the following, so how is it that when we talk about law enforcement, the theme is that the EU has not been on its feet, Brussels, to solve our insufferable bad judiciary, to solve corruption, we have not seen such pressures. They say, so we won't change, we won't interfere, you're a modern state, so you solve it, you Croats, so that's your problem. How come they didn't get involved when the question of the Swiss franc was, the currency clause, they say again forgive me, it's, you're sovereign, you solve it, so I don't want to get involved in it. I remind you of one thing, I don't know, Mr. Vice President, if you remember when we negotiated to join the EU, 35 chapters were negotiated. Two people negotiated as many as seven chapters. Who do you think those people were? It was Martina Dalic and Boris Vujcic. So seven chapters, two people negotiate. And interestingly enough, that's where people have been with someone else for 20 years, and they've been dressing and they're making our destiny. We cannot overcome these open issues, the party Change Croatia stands for the EU but sovereign states, sovereign nations, not to be a union of capital, a consumer union, and if it does not succeed, it will disintegrate and fail. We have to keep the kuna, we have to keep the kuna, no one has ever wanted it from the governor and the government, we change Croatia will work with new parties in the Parliament, we will certainly keep it because we do not want to send the Croatian people to Greece's syndrome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127691	Thank you, dear colleague Lovrinovic. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127692	Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult because we are talking about the application of EU legislation to the Republic of Croatia, we are talking about the legal gains of the EU that should be transferred to the Republic of Croatia, but the fact is that a dictatorship is being introduced in Croatia rather than a European acquis because the reports of the Ministry of Administration show that the checklists of the referendum's signatures for holding the referendum have been destroyed. The checklists for holding the referendum were destroyed where it was reported that 40,000 signatures were allegedly invalid because of one letter or I don't know what. Through this commission, Minister Lovro Kuščević essentially struck direct democracy. In that report, I repeat, it states that the checklists where 40,000 invalid signatures were destroyed and our people collected 400,000 lists to implement a direct democracy, that the people should decide but Andrej Plenkovic, the government and Minister Lovro Kuščević said it is invalid 40,000 and today it is Professor. The undersigned on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure presented that fact where the report states that there are no lists of controls, which are signatures. It's a direct blow to democracy. Fellow MPs, we are in a small number here now, hidden in a torn and destroyed checklist of a referendum that has been amended by the Election Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127693	I thank my dear colleague Bulj, therefore the break may be sought on the subject or item of the agenda, and the referendum is not a topic but... My colleague, my colleague Bulj,...... [[I don't understand.]] Comrade Bulj, please...... [[I don't understand.]] Comrade Bulj, please...... [[I don't understand.]] Comrade Bulj, I give you a warning, take your seat. ... [[I don't understand.]] Comrade Bull, take your seats, please. [[I don't understand.]] On the basis of Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words. ... I told you, I give you a warning by taking away the words as far as the agenda point is concerned. [[I don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127694	This is a blow to democracy, direct undertakers have hit democracy, it's a legal gain. They destroyed 40,000 checklists, names and last names that said they were allegedly, allegedly invalid, where are those lists, here I ask you, Vice President of the Parliament? [[Invader Brkić: Col. Bulj...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127695	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that On the basis of Article 241 I give you a measure of distance from the session until the end of today's session and plenary session. [[I don't understand.]] Sets a break until 12 o'clock. By 11:00, I apologize. MEETING IN 10.46 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives' Club and SNAG's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127697	It is our duty as parliamentary representatives, or representatives of citizens, to fight not only for the dignity of citizens, or our constituents, but also for our own. If two-thirds of the laws voted in the House do not come from the people, nor from us MPs, or even from the government already come directly from Brussels, the question is what we decide, or to what extent we decide. Since it is clear that the state de facto banned the referendum has shown what it thinks about the will of citizens, it is clear that the EU will not tolerate free expression of will. Among other things, it is clear that Valda plans in a non-democratic way to force Croatia to introduce the euro or implement the measure, although it is clear that most citizens are against it. Also, the Supreme Court's decision today prohibiting a strike at the Sama Deutz Fahr Company in Županja was that the strike was banned again after the strike had already been banned several months ago in Croatia Airlines. Strike bans as a legitimate statement of dissatisfaction of workers are a non-democratic measure, they actually show that the judicial system, or the state that is in its background, and then Brussels, which is currently in the background, opposes workers' rights, that they do not recognise them, that the strike is considered an illegal way of fighting for its rights and that they are actually openly placed aside from capital, on the side of the capital that earns millions while the workers' salaries are close to the minimum. I ask the question until when will the state implement a policy in favour of capital, foreign capital and until when will the Croatian industry be destroyed? We saw the recent shut-down of the refinery in Sisak, we saw the pushing of large shipyards into bankruptcy. We saw yesterday that part of Đura Djakovic and the inscriptions I read close in Slavonski Brod, if I remember correctly, the 170 workers will be out of a job. The question is who will stay here in Croatia and which will cover the decline of industrial production. We have experienced the biggest drop in industrial production probably in the last 20 years, just now under the government of Andrej Plenkovic, right now while we are in the EU. We were told about the common market, that we were going to export in, to a market of half a billion people, instead we came into a situation that even, I would dare say half of our agriculture was destroyed. We've been flooded by mass imports. Croatia has not become a country that exports agricultural products, no food imports have increased, domestic production has fallen, wine vines are no longer processed, 40% wine production in Croatia has dropped, milk cows have ended up in slaughterhouses no longer giving milk, the country is unprocessed. I guess the only ones who make money from agriculture are the ones who don't do agriculture, the ones who falsely report that they're processing and the wolf is inciting. The ground is empty. In the country every other or third house has already been emptied, this is the result of our government's policy. And unfortunately, if the people do not rebel against this policy in the elections, we will witness the continuation of these trends and ultimately the disappearance of our country and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127698	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank her for one State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs. Andreja Metelko Zgombic. ... You do not have the right to reply to a colleague, Zekanovic, to present representatives of the Club of Representatives, regardless of what is finished, on the basis of Article 235. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Rules of Procedure. Once again, I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs Andreja Metelko Zgombic, and her associate for the reasons of the proposal. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127699	Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for the EU for 2019. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the draft plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for the EU for 2019, please vote. I find that most of the vote 100 FOR and 1 abstention and 2 OBVI has been adopted A plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for the EU for 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127700	We move to the next item of daily work: - Report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2017. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 6 of the Act. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. I call on State Secretary of Justice Mr. Juru Martinovic to give us an additional explanation of the report. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127701	Honorable MPs and MPs. The agenda item is the report on the work of the prison penitentiary, educational institutions in 2017. You've all received a very extensive report which is some 150 pages with all relevant parameters, data, movements, partnerships with the previous period. In short, what I want to say for you, but also for the public, for Croatian citizens, so Croatian prison system every year, and in that year it also happened, in 2017, some 11 500 different categories of prisoners, detainees or other investigating prisoners passed through the system. The system is a capacity of 3900 places, so for all these categories, in 2017 it has never grown more than 3200 to 300, which means that the capacities are sufficient to satisfy what the prison system should take in accordance with the decisions of the competent authorities, most often these competent authorities are Croatian courts. The system employs slightly more than 2500 employees, and for your knowledge, it is systematized somewhere near 3900 employees, which is why human resources are being spent rationally for this purpose. The annual budget system spent 440 million kunas and some 50 million of its own resources and some other sources that year. Here I am, standing at your disposal for what I should possibly explain on behalf of the Government about this 2017 report, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127702	I thank the secretary of state, we have a replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127703	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the problem is that we are discussing a report for 2017 and for us is 2018, it might be good if you first tell us that although the current state of affairs is large, the problems in the prison system are large, and there is a lot more itching in the Rijeka prison, cells are overcrowded, there are far more standards, especially because of problems with both migrants who are now and in those prisons, so the problems are much bigger than can be read especially when it comes to medical staff who should be helping, psychologists, and here we are even witnessing that they appear in prison systems and itch. So can you briefly tell us what the situation is right now, regardless of what this report is in 2017, I think it is more important to see what the problem is at present in Croatian prisons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127704	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127705	Your Honor, you said so yourself, this is a report for 2017 but nevertheless, I will try to answer your question. I can tell you that the Croatian prison system is a very stable system, that it progresses year by year, that the standards of the prisoners the prison system is concerned about after the judicial authority has instructed them to, very high, that it is rare for competent institutions, European institutions that protect human rights, as well as our public defenders, that we have excellent cooperation with them and that we adapt these things to all high expectations, high EU standards. So the controversial and petty events that are happening, I think it is not correct and therefore to turn into a form of occurrence, there has been a delay in a debate in Rijeka, it is an incident situation, it has been delayed in a way that the man has called for disease or shrug, of course the shrugs in Croatian prisons do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127706	I thank the Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127707	Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. As you said, we have before us a report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia for 2017. It is a practice for the Ministry of Justice to submit once a year to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions such as the practice that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of indicators in the report submitted which shows extensively the situation in prisons and penitentiary offices and educational institutions, it can be established that there is a stable, regulated system, the execution of sentences in the Republic of Croatia and all other criminal sanctions, which other than prison sentences, are carried out through the prison system. Namely, the report shows that the prison system in the Republic of Croatia through the Department of Prison System and Prosecution within the Ministry of Justice is organised at a fairly solid level and that it allows for the implementation of criminal sanctions and, in combination with the Law on Prosecution, the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the Penal Code and the Law on Prosecution We talked about on Wednesday, therefore, about the activity of the Prosecution Service, provides an all-out, rational system in the Republic of Croatia which is primarily focused on the reintegration of the perpetrators into social life in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. preventing the relapse of the perpetrators of criminal offences. So in the Republic of Croatia, according to the report, there are 12 prisons, 8 prisons with a prison hospital in Zagreb, 2 educational institutions, the Centre for Diagnostics and the Centre for Education, which makes up one whole that enables the implementation of therefore criminal justice sanctions in the Republic of Croatia. Based on the facts set out in the report, it may be important to stress that the largest number of criminal offences are 35%, 35% of crimes against life and the body, and other crimes in most cases relate to injury, hence sexual freedoms. Therefore, when it comes to the level of punishment and the structure of criminal acts, then the report states that the maximum number of prison sentences is realised between 1 and 3 years, the smaller part so for 3 to 5 years, the smallest part of the high sentence of prison and 13% only prison sentences up to a year. A little while ago, the report said that 225 foreign citizens had passed through the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. All in all, the report shows therefore progress in building this area which is important for the functioning of the rule of law and which allows Croatia to follow European trends in this power. As I mentioned on Wednesday we had a report on the activities of the probation service just since 2009 and the adoption of the Law on Prosecution, Construction of Prosecution Service already 14 offices operate at the level of the county, at the level of the city of Zagreb, county and city. The probationary office therefore also allows for the reduction of the costs of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia and is precisely an emphasis within this whole system on ambition to reduce the relapse of the perpetrators of criminal offences that they are reintegrating into social life in the Republic of Croatia. And it's in the report right now, and it puts emphasis on the question of treatment and on the insurance of prisoners in prison and penitentiary. Therefore, the issue of treatment involves the involvement of numerous professions of social sciences, educators, social workers, social educators and a number of other sciences that enable the realization of the key ambition of reintegration of perpetrators of criminal acts into social life in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I appreciate that the report shows that the Republic of Croatia successfully monitors European trends in this area and the HDZ Club will support the 2017 report on the state and operation of penitentiary facilities, prisons and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127708	I thank my esteemed colleague Raguž. Next debate on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127709	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there are two types of prison. One is the prison we're discussing today, a prison where you see bars, where there are guards, from which you can only get out with permission, or you can't get out if you're not allowed. But there's one much, much bigger prison without bars, and that prison is actually the society we live in. And why? Because in that society, we're not free. If we say what we think we can be punished for it. So a lot of people, every year, go to criminal courts because they said things that the authorities didn't like, and so am I. A classic verbal deliction, you write something on a facebook, ha, as we have a misdemeanor warrant, you'll have to go to the Criminal Court, etc. So freedom of speech in our country, I would call it Croatia one prison without walls and bars is limited. On the other hand, journalists who dare speak against powerful figures, even when they tell the truth about them simply get punished. So their mouths are also clogged. These judgments happen, or mental - pain lawsuits, and they are, of course, limited in what they say. So now we've definitely determined that freedom of speech is, to a certain extent, suspended in this prison without walls. Then we come to another freedom, or right, it's about the right to strike. We can see that this right in Croatia can't be realized either. We see that in the case of SDF...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127710	Mr. Pernar, we'll stop your time, I beg you nicely, speak of a subject that is not subject to discussion. The report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary offices and educational institutions for 2017 is on the agenda. I'm asking nicely about the subject of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127711	Thank you. The report on the situation in the penitentiary refers only to the situation in prisons that have as I said bars and walls and guards. But it ignores the situation in a society that has been turned into a prison, a society where not only is the freedom of an individual to speak through these charges of slander, mental pain and misdemeanour is already limited even in the Croatian Parliament. So I'm convinced here that, we're free to live in democracy, and when I want to talk about not being free, that we don't live in democracy, that we can't say what we think, that the strike is forbidden, and then Mr. Pernar says, and as no, it's not the topic of the agenda, we shouldn't talk about it, we just have to talk about one segment of that prison system that actually rules over all of us. A society where people have no economic freedom, a society where people are in debt slavery, is such a society free? And are these people free or are they actually living in a prison, in a penitentiary they don't see their way out of? In my court, every single single person lives in prison. And how many individuals in Croatia are available? By my judgment, very little. This deep state of not being free, or I would call the mental cage, the mental prison even entered the Croatian Parliament. So even in the Croatian Parliament, many MPs do not dare to say what they think, they are afraid of the consequences of what would happen if they said what they think will cause them to be punished in some way, etc. And this bureaucracy, but this monetary system has turned us, as I said, into debt slavery, our freedom has been taken away from us all. Although we are falsely convinced that we are free. So the state says those who are in prison, like them deprived of freedom and you all who are out of jail, you're all free. However, it is clear to the students at the gallery that if, by chance, they were to say what they think about the follow-up, if they were to question the integrity of the system that government over them would quickly see how limited their freedom is, how much the system is actually trying to contain any thought. You can see that by the state of the media, the media is not free. And why aren't they free? So because they depend on finance, they depend on advertisers, and if your bank advertisers are free to talk against a debt-based financial system where there's no interest money and say that banks are bloodbaths that massacre us and make no money on our work and effort. Of course the press won't write about it. They can't write about it. Their freedom is significantly limited but this kind of freedom is not to be talked about, intellectual freedom is not to be talked about. A well-known communist Marxist, Gaje Petrovic, wrote a book by a contemporary man and Marxism. In that book, he explained that as in free society, there are individuals who are not free and in a free society there are free people. What did he mean by that? In an unfree society where certain things are not to be said there are people who will say them anyway and on the other hand, in a free society where there can be those who will not say what they think, who will be afraid to say what they think. And that torture of opinion, it took over the media, took over the Parliament, took over ordinary citizens who not only dare say what they think but also their entire thought course, the thought process, their perception is governed by the media. The media is telling people what to think today. If the media convinces them it's the sun out there, people will believe it's the sun. However, if a skeptic can go out to the window and can see it's not the sun, it's rain or it's dark. However, many of the other sophisticated lies that the media has placed on us can't be checked out through the window. And it's actually the media that keeps people out, who are sort of the guardians of the government and who work for the government. In the free society, media, many criticise power, with us media criticise the opposition, with us media agitating for Brussels, for NATO, telling us that NATO is spreading peace around the world, that NATO is a single defence alliance, that Croatia should send troops to Afghanistan to the Russian border, where it already is. Why? Because they're controlled, because they're not free. Prisons aren't just institutions like Remetinz. Prison can be our mind, too. Prison can be our state of consciousness that restricts us from free thinking. Prison can be an economic situation where you're in debt and there's no way you're getting out of that debt. Debt slavery is a new kind of slavery. Once a slave was a physical slave and knew who his master was. Today in this modern form of colonization, man is a slave to banks. He's free, I don't know whether he's going to sleep or not, whether he's going to get out of the house or not, but it's certainly a clear relationship between the one who runs it and the one who runs it. In such a society, such a strain and such a lack of time are that people do not have time for themselves and their families. That their thoughts are simply limited. And what little free time they have, if they consume the media and that free time will go away and they will continue to think what the system wants them to think. The media does not teach people free thinking, the media does not encourage people to freely say what they think, not the role of the media is the formation of your opinion, the role of the education system is not to teach you anything but the role of the educational system to teach you obedience and the system of authority in which the authority is always right, even though it was right and the student was always wrong, even though he was right. There's no free exchange of thoughts. In the education system, you don't speak when you want to speak, but only when authority allows you to say it. This system doesn't start in school, it starts in kindergarten, it goes on in college and later on in real life. In the end, it continues in the Parliament. If you won't listen to what he tells you, he'll throw you out on all four of the Parliament. It's the state of freedom that we live in. A cop with the lowest rank is above any civilian, you can be a doctor of science, a cop can have a primary school. What, he may be a beginner but he's above you because the system is designed as one pyramid of power. The pyramid of power in which those at the top are allowed everything and those in their sleep are not allowed to even say what they think. The lack of freedom is being witnessed by Juanita Luksetic's case. People are not allowed, watch out, and they say you live in a free country, you can't plant the most common plant, which plant is banned, how can the state, how can the regulation ban nature? How can regulations forbid you to plant a plant in your garden? Is that normal for you? They assure you that, and if by any chance you're being treated with that plant and that plant helps you, which prescription has a system for you, then come these criminal provisions, then there goes closing, mounted trial, and why do I say mounted trial? Because in the classical trial, however, guilt is determined during the trial, but in the mounted court proceedings pending by the Croatian judiciary, guilt has already been determined in advance. The trial is a farce. You already know you're guilty. And why do you know you're guilty? Because you dare tell the truth. You dare say I did use Indian hemp, yes, I did. And thus the system immediately knows you and which will be the verdict, the verdict will be you must go to prison, it's your fault. And in such court proceedings as the chances of you being single to be free, nothing. You will be convicted and enter the prison system and why? So to tell you no, you don't have the right to treat yourself, it's a delusion that you think you can. You have no right to use Indian hemp. And as a free man, you realize how unfree you are. You're not free to plant an ordinary plant. Such a totalitarian system has gone one step further in a way that has forbidden you to go into the woods and read mushrooms without permission. And you can't pick mushrooms in the woods without permission from the state. And you're free. You are free enough to go to the coast and throw a hook into the sea at the time of freedom or at the time of communism. You can't do this anymore. You can't sit on a mall without a fishing license, on some beach and throw a hook into the sea. That's forbidden today. We come to the fact that every kind of freedom is going to be smaller and smaller and the state's control is getting bigger and bigger and bigger. While you will eventually realize that the only thing that separates prisoners in prisons and you living on the loose is that they see bars and walls and you don't. Everything is controlled, and the curricula at school and the program on TV and what you can say and the things you can do. So imagine a system that forbids people to fish without permission in the sea, so is that a normal system? Is that the normal system, gentlemen of HDZ, I ask you, did you create such a system? You have created a system of freedom, you have created a system in which your members caught with their fingers in a jam, the courts release them and Juanita Luksetic is sent to prison by a powerful verdict, it is the judiciary under the HDZ and this new tyranny that imposes on us with some mask of beautiful to God's freedom, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127712	Thank you very much. We will now return to our point, the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2017 on an individual debate attended by the respected representative Ivan Celic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in this very comprehensive report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2017, would refer to the drug addict population, so drug addicts are one of the most numerous and treated and most demanding groups of prisoners. Taking into account the quality of health care of drug addicts, we can say that Croatia is in partnership with other EU countries at the very top of the so-called substitution therapy, which is a golden standard in the treatment of opiate addicts, so treatment with both methadone and... , How important and demanding a group is, therefore, enough to see that more than 10 pages are covered by the subject of addicts, there is also a specific area of alcohol addicts, and I believe that in the near period of time, there may be a record of gambling addicts, unfortunately gambling addicts predict that there are 50,000 in Croatia and certain crimes are definitely linked to gambling addicts who resort to certain criminal acts due to lack of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also important to mention here the different resociation projects in cooperation with a number of NGOs, the unforgivable part of the probationary offices, but if we look at certain counties, so there should be a difference in the expression of the safety or protection measures of mandatory treatment and it seems to me that if we look at and compromise the number of those who have the security measure and the number of those who have been diagnosed with alcohol addiction through the diagnostic centres in the penitentiary institutions, then it is certainly necessary to consider it as a single issue of insufficient expression of the safety or protective measure of mandatory treatment for addiction in terms of the prevention of so-called relapse. We know that addiction is most often a chronic relapse disease and that there are relapsers very common, but if we combine numbers then we can see that there is some tendency for those relapsers who end up in penal institutions again. One of the problems within the judicial system is the lack of medical staff, therefore, such as in the medical system and in the judicial system, we have a problem with the lack of medical staff and there are objections from the unions that sometimes people who are not medical professions participate in the division of therapy so that this should in some way be analysed and prevented from such situations that such situations within the judicial system which does very well carry out their work, such cases should not be. And he'd say a little bit more about the situation in the United States, unfortunately the prison system has become a substitute for hospitals, for psychiatric hospitals, that's not the case with us, and if we look at security conditions, if we look at the number of suicide attempts and the number of murders, then we'll see, in fact, that in the last few years, only one suicide in 2015, which means that security conditions are at an envious level. Also, the issue of mechanical obstruction, unfortunately despite the recommendations of certain institutions such as the Ombudsman for disabled persons who do not fully understand the conditions in both penal and health institutions, mechanical restraint as some extreme measure is nevertheless the only option in certain situations but it is seen by the figures that these are truly exceptional situations and that it should be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127715	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work on Wednesday 13 February, the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Privatisation of the INA Industry Oil d.d., an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 565. Have a nice weekend. SESSILE Interrupted at 13,29 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-08-0.u127716	Report on the state and work of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2017, is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2017 is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, that most of the votes, 108 FOR and 2 votes against the vote, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
