ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u139158	Mr. Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u139159	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia published an article in the Vecernji list of journalists Valentina Vizner yesterday that discusses how interest rates were agreed 10 years ago and how they are negotiated today, primarily in housing loans. Therefore, on the basis of this analysis, it was concluded that the debtor who contracted the loan 10 years ago had agreed on a loan that was more expensive for 35,000 to 53,000 euros compared to the loan that is being negotiated today. I'd look at it from two angles. One angle is the corner of an expensive loan 10 years ago, and the other is the corner of a loan in which they are agreed except that they are high and illegal interest rates, both high and illegal. What is the problem with the loans that were negotiated before 10 January 2013? First, high interest rates where the CNB and the Croatian Banking Association are calling for such interest rates to be negotiated because of the high credit risk of the Republic of Croatia. Such a claim that due to high credit risk, the Republic of Croatia is high and the interest rates in consumer loans do not hold water. Why isn't he holding water? Because loans are mostly paid out of domestic money. Banks are filled with money from Croatian citizens for 10 weeks. They did not borrow at all to place loans in the Republic of Croatia, therefore loans to the country's consumer credit risk in the Republic of Croatia do not have a slight relationship, it is simply one floscula, a spin to which both the CNB and the Croatian Banking Association justified high interest rates in the Republic of Croatia. And because of such high interest rates, it happens that the debtors who contracted the loans before 10th contracted loans that cost 35,000 to 53,000 euros more than today's loan if we compare an 80,000-euro loan contracted at 25 years of repayment. During 2015, it passed the Law on the conversion of CHF credits and the Croatian Post Bank began to offer kuna loans at lower interest rates and there the trend of lower interest rates began. So, the Franak association is the one that caused the beginning of the drop in interest rates in the Republic of Croatia. Today, interest rates are much lower than before, but they remain more than developed EU countries by 50% to 100% and are still more. Irrelevant. The country's credit risk has nothing to do with it. The second angle of view that I mention is the angle of illegal interest rates. All or almost all consumer loans agreed before 10 January 2013 have unlawfully agreed interest rates, which have been changed by a decision of the bank and, as a rule, more. As a result, banks illegally acquired about 5 billion kunas. It's robbed money from Croatian citizens. This was also established by the collective process in the case of Franak, it was found that such interest rates were agreed both in CHF currency and in kuna loans and in EUR-o loans. And that money should be paid back to Croatian citizens. Whether it will be fully returned or not depends primarily on the authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Because due to an old-fashioned claim at this point, everyone has the right to ask for only the last five years. June 13, 2019 was the last day they could ask for anything. Whether the issue of outdated claims will change to the Republic of Croatia, whether it will allow consumers to get all the money or not, we will only see this, however, the legislative authority can by its intervention on the basis of a collective court ruling allow all citizens to get their money back. The banks have robbed Croatian citizens under the blessing of the CNB, under the blessing of all authorities so far, both executive and legislative. So I appeal once again to this home to think about it and to bring a legal solution in the future and give people back their money they robbed, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144628	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work, today's first item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on the State Administration System, second reading, P.Z. No. 617 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172 in relation to Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. Dear Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go, Minister, God, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144629	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, I welcome you all, here is how the introduction already means before you the Final Proposal for the Law on the System of State Administration, which was adopted in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament on 11 April 2019. I will give a brief review of the reason why we are passing this law, and then also those changes that this one was made in relation to the first reading. The new Law on the State Administration System means it will allow the implementation of three reform measures. First, it's depolitisation of the state administration and further professionalization. Second decentralisation or approximation of the administration to citizens and rationalisation, and third digitisation or digitisation of office business. As one of the key innovations in the new Law on the State Administration System is the one relating to the implementation of the Government of the mandate from 2016 to 2020 in the section relating to depoliticalisation and further professionalisation of the state administration. For this reason, the proposal for a State Administration System Act provides that administrative organisations within the ministry will manage government officials instead of current ministerial assistants, directors of the administration and thus reduce the number of state officials by 96, which, in addition to the professionalisation of the state administration, represents a significant savings of funds in the state budget. This is done in a way as I pointed out by the depoliticalisation of the state administration, because people in those jobs will be appointed instead of by political decision on the basis of a public tender in the prescribed procedure and with clear conditions for the performance of the business, and thus the transparency and equal availability of those jobs will also be achieved for all citizens under the same conditions. Another measure of decentralisation or rationalisation, henceforth, the new System Act provides for the provision of state administration services that have so far been carried out by public administration offices in the districts as first-degree authorities of the state administration, and we believe that this will further bring the affairs of state administration closer to citizens as end-users of state administration services. It is also meant to abolish 20 state administration bodies with accompanying facilities, which represents a concrete reduction in the total number of state administration bodies from 52 to 32. This law therefore provides that the counties will take over both officials and deputies of the so far-called state administration offices, thus reducing the number of civil servants and deputies and through those encouraging measures that they spoke of in the reading process. What is also pointed out in this introduction is the possibility of setting up individual establishment units for the establishment of public administration bodies as unique administrative places. This law means creating preconditions for that as well. In these unique future administrative places, citizens will be able to submit all the requirements that will, under official duty and without delay, be delivered to the relevant public-law authority and receive all the required forms, notices, advice and other assistance. Finally, this law sets the meaning of the standard of electronic office business in both the authorities of the state administration and in the counties and legal persons performing the entrusted tasks of the state administration. Compared to the first reading, there have been some changes, so I'll just point out the ones that are the most important. So according to the debate in this home, the old Article 12 means no longer in the new bill. Article 47 has also been amended in that section, which refers to decisions, means the minister of advisors provided for in the cabinet. It also means that the transitional and final provisions in that section relating to the period until when it means officials and subsistences in the offices of the state administration may apply for retirement, those who, of course, fulfil the conditions for that, and that deadline has been moved from 15 December to 1 October to give sufficient time and opportunity to the services to conclude all these contracts and to do all necessary work by 1.1.2020. And as you have seen it has changed, and Article 71 has been provided for in the reading process that the law will enter into force on 1 June 2019 and is now amended in Article 71 and it is envisaged that the law will enter into force within 8 days of its publication. Here, I think that's the most important thing I should have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144630	First we go to the replicas. Dear colleague, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144631	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So one of the reasons why this law is passed is those three levels of officials, ministers, state secretaries and assistants. So, the assistants are being abolished and they're pretending, they're not officials anymore, but I'm curious, the last time I asked you, I didn't get the answer, maybe I'll get it now. How many secretaries of state are there in the ministries at this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144632	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144633	Thank you. So, last time I remember correctly, I promised to tell you the exact number of officials that this law applies to. Of course, there are no officials involved in the government, the Parliament, the President's office and everyone else. This law applies to 177 officials, and under the new law when you adopt it, you know we're going to have a total of 81 officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144634	Comrade Varg, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144635	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Mr. Secretary of State. I was also the chief secretary of the Ministry of Health for a short time before I became head of HZZO, and I saw problems directly related to the earlier reform where it was done earlier in terms of abolishing the position of assistants in the transformation of state, i.e. directors of the administration. My question is specifically, since I acted as Director of HZZO, where all the assistants, deputy directors and directors of state officials are. Are they also covered by these laws because I must admit that I believe that political functions should include state officials, and that is specifically the Ministry of Health, but in HZZO it must not be and I hope that this law includes HZZO to eliminate HZZO officials as state officials, to become professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144636	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144637	Thank you. So this, the question that you've asked, we're actually going to discuss under the second point, with the bill, which means what's on the table, and as far as the second point is concerned, the amendments and additions of the Law on State Officials, so no change in HZZO is foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144638	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144639	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Nekic. When we talk about another goal, decentralisation, you mentioned that this is how services are approaching citizens. I wouldn't exactly agree with that because this is how your government offices are anyway, they're gonna stay physically in the same places, right? What Minister Kuščević said when he announced this law and that, in the last few decades, to say now and decades, is the first criticism addressed to this establishment of local self-government, when he said this was an opportunity for the county to justify its existence. He literally said he would take over certain government affairs. Now, I'm interested, all these people who are going to move from state administration to local self-government units, actually county, and given the different coefficients, the different decisions of representative bodies on salary levels, what will happen to those who come to lower wages compared to those who come to higher wages? Have you thought about that in the draft of this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144640	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144641	Thank you. So we've done a very precise analysis of all the employees in the state administration's offices that are currently at 2508. So we also did a precise analysis of how many of them it meets under this bill of law conditions, if of course they accept them, for retirement, means somewhere around 690 employees of the state administration's office have the conditions, when this law is passed, to apply to receive that pension, or to receive compensation as provided for by this law. As far as wages are concerned, so in all counties, no county has the same salary. Of course, the counties have different basics and have different coefficients, but what I can certainly confirm is that no employee of the state administration's office except the president will have less salary than there is today in the offices of the state administration. How many are there going to be? Please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144642	Comrade Matteljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144643	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear Secretary of State. In fact, I listened carefully to your presentations, carefully read the law, and nowhere in any article, so I found no reason in any article, or way for the tenants and officials who will be relocated from the state administration office to be relocated to municipalities and cities. However, in the field of real life some mayors did not realize it. Only if you didn't tell us anything, if something in this law is writing this secret ink, is that different, is it really going to municipalities and cities or just to county? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144644	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144645	So the mayors got it very well because we had a few working meetings with them. There is no question that cities and municipalities will take over any employees from the state administration's office. It is the obligation of the county, the mayors have accepted it and, therefore, all the mayors of different political options, all agreed with this proposal because we have indeed worked intensively with the county community in the last year to get as good a legal proposal as possible, so I don't see this problem and I think it means, not to think, but I'm sure the municipalities and cities will have no business with any reception of officials from the office and subsistence of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144646	And we're going to the last, esteemed colleague of the Podolnjak, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144647	Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You managed to give a five-minute explanation for one, as you said, very important system law. But I would like to ask you before the presentations that will soon be, why you did not respect what you had committed to the Committee on Legislatives, that you would supplement the reasoning of this law and in the debate, why you did not accept certain proposals that were presented in the debate at this session. You didn't write anything out of it. So nothing that has been said in this House has been respected and you have not written why you did not respect and why what we have presented here is not relevant to you in this proposal that you gave to the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you to tell all the MPs about it, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144648	It is simply not true, if you have read the proposal means this final bill then you have seen that we have respected the meaning of the objection given by your colleague Grmoi and that we have completely thrown out that old Article 12 that no longer exists in the final draft of the law. If you had read it, you would have seen for sure that we did it, and that was one of the proposals means in the debate right here in this honored home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144649	We've come to an end with replicas, now we're going to ask the committee's rapporteur if he wants to take the floor? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ and two MPs will speak, the first is a respected counterpart, Boric, and after that, a colleague, Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144650	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, the Law on the System of State Administration has been heard as an important system law practically regulates the structure of the state administration itself, we already had it in our first reading, clearly through this text ordering or representing three basic goals which are intended to be achieved, and that is, above all, depolitisation and further professionalisation of public administration, second decentralisation or the approximation of the administration to citizens and third digitisation. Simplification of all processes in the state administration itself. What certainly brought the most attention to the law itself is this first part, meaning depolitisation and further professionalization. The story already started in 2009 and, of course, stopped with SDP coming into power in such a way as to simply go over it and already those who were directors of the administration were then elected in public competitions to replace and re-enter the system of ministerial assistants and, of course, explain how those who were elected to the competition were actually those who were as politically as similar and were in no way able to come to what was true or not, but in fact, the law had already been made clear by directors of the administration as professionals, people who were elected in competitions, and that it was seen that these people really had nothing to do with, at least in the most, any political party. Now we're in juvie and we're going from the beginning, once again the same lesson, once again the same story, because we've always met at the beginning of this, the mandate of this government, that it's coming from these same, means that this government has too many positions, that there are too many politicians in office, that simply that number should be reduced and that the state system itself needs to be simplified to a level of one or two chain of command within the meaning of the first or second to it. I think that when we look at this second part of decentralisation itself, or the approach of the administration to citizens, that this government has already done in this segment, that in this segment we have begun to abolish 54 agencies, means when we wanted to simplify the system itself, 54 agencies, institutions, institutes, that, with this depolitisation and the reduction of the number of posts, we clearly recommend that we care about what the state looks like and what the people think about it or the citizens think about it. Just bringing the administration closer to citizens is important, given that it will bring down the meaning of the public administration's office towards the county, because they eat important and carry out over 200 different jobs, from the simplest I don't know the categorization of apartments, the opening of crafts, so all other jobs that are vital to citizens, and we think that counties or county services or these same people within the county system can be even closer to citizens and even better perform such functions. As for the abolition, we have a reduction in the number of these state bodies from 52 to 32, and we believe that the takeover of both officials and subsistence officers from current offices should not result in any greater negativity or worse moves within the system itself. And the third thing that is important is the digitisation that is more and more marking us, in this sense it should be noted that several governments have already launched a number of activities of digitalisation itself that need to save time for citizens, of course money and simplify the management system or obtaining certain information. In the current state system, we had 20 ministries, 5 central state offices and that for public procurement, for renovation and housing, for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and for the development of a digital society and for the one we founded in the term of office of this government, the Central State Office for Dispute. We also had 7 state institutions, very important which, in their own way, each in their own space played their own roles from the hydrometeorological institution to the Institute for Intellectual Property, Measurement, Statistics, Radiological and Nuclear Security, Protection and Rescue and of course with 4 independent institutions, HZZO, HZMO and HZZ and and and the Croatian Institute for Standards. I think that already, I say through this law in the first reading, we clearly pointed out what the fundamental goal is, to reduce what I've already said to the number of state officials and of these 96 assistants we have, means 96 officials less. We have now heard that this sum will come to 81 and we think that this is appropriate for the country of our size and that it should no longer happen in the future that when we go into one of these systems, let's not know the other government that is going back to the beginning and that this system of more professional, more efficient state administrations cannot be established and that simply what changes in elections is in the minimal sense of leading, leading people, people who are responding and making decisions. Here I think that what is the difference between the two readings is very small, said the State Secretary himself, is explained by the provision of Article 3(2), i.e. a little different. It explains a little more clearly what the affairs of the state administration are and I think that more or less all the other articles of this law are clearly supported about us, from the HDZ Club in the first reading, so it will be in the second, with fellow Miroslav Tudjman having two amendments to which he will say something, so here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144651	Please, Comrade Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144652	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to submit two amendments on behalf of the HDZ Club. The first amendment concerns Article 17 relating to the implementation of State policy. Article 17 says the implementation of state policy includes the following issues, draft draft laws, regulations, etc., drawing up strategic documents, and I think that the evaluation of the effectiveness of the laws, regulations and other acts of government should also be put in place so that we have one closed circle, i.e. that the system takes care of itself, or for the sake of the necessary correction. The second amendment concerns Article 32, the additional indent would go after the first and the first is that the reply to the submission requesting an opinion on the proper application of the law and other rules would indeed be delivered by the competent authority to the applicant within 30 days of the date of receipt of the submission. Here, an amendment is proposed, which would read as such, public officials may file a submission requesting an opinion on the effectiveness of the application of laws and other regulations in the work of the state administration. The point of these two amendments is the following, and the responsibility of civil servants is emphasized, that the state administration is at the service of the citizens, so it cannot happen that someone figuratively comes to the counter and that the official tells him your request is contrary to some other law, or if the law is contrary to the spirit of the law, that the matter is being delayed indefinitely, but that there is a responsibility and that civil servants to encourage the debate and seek a solution to the needs of the citizens or to be at the service of the citizens. In that sense, we propose these two amendments. In my opinion, it is important that we develop this awareness and responsibility, that everyone who works in the state administration, is also responsible from their position to make this state administration as effective as possible, be better and be able to comply with the demands of citizens and in those cases where laws have been unarranged or when several laws are conflicted. Maybe just one thing as an illustration of one to say, a benign problem. What can motivate us or should motivate us to accept these requirements? A year ago, a year and a half ago, I made a request that came out of a real situation, says a man three times I'm going within six months. to the same doctor to get a driver's license because I'm a firefighter and because I'm a hunter, I think it was, I sent three different ministries an answer, the law says that a medical finding can only be used once for one purpose only, from three ministries I got two answers where the ministers say it is, so it should change but nothing happens, because it's not known who's responsible for starting it and that two, three different resistors bring to the table and solve this simple thing that's basically not controversial. It seems to me with this kind of shift, this probably won't be enough, but with this kind of shift, we can improve things and relationships. What you'll probably need, it's that the government with its regulations was within the Ministry, solve... the procedure to address these problems, i.e. to define the procedure when it comes to inter-responsible responsibility, which is the procedure, which are the deadlines and what is the way in which these problems can be effectively solved to the satisfaction of the citizens or users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope both the Ministry and the Parliament will accept these amendments, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144653	Now it's the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club, honorary colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144654	Hala, the well-respected president of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished state secretary with his associate, colleagues and colleagues, is in front of us in the second reading of the Law on the System of State Administration. As the State Secretary in the opening statement said that this law is trying to solve three topics, one is depoliticalisation and the other is decentralisation and the third is digitisation, so I kind of conceived my own debate, but before that, I would like to say one thing. We have pointed to one fact on the Legislative Committee, and I am also using this plenary session. This law goes through two readings were some small changes but what the promoter did, so every time we get an explanation that the changes were made, this time the explanation is made in one sentence, so look at this back page, one single sentence about, the remarks that were irrelevant, so we didn't even process them. It just doesn't work that way, if you've already decided to go through two readings with laws, then give a minimum of some jurisdiction of the elemental relationship to the laws to explain those remarks even if the parliamentary representatives and went off topic, it's enough to say that the discussions of certain parliamentary representatives were out of the question but to get materials that are okay. When it comes to the system of state administration, it would be good to listen a little and hear a little when we are judged by someone outside who considers us to be a problem in Croatia. Of course, one of the key problems is the judiciary, the other is management. I have a feeling unfortunately, he doesn't cheat on me, it's like an old house that we're all aware of that we should either seriously reconstruct or crash and make a new one, but we don't do it, we just put a facade on that house every time. It will happen that after 3 or 4 times you put on a new facade, that facade will be too heavy and will tear down that house. That's what we're talking about. We're just trying to create some new picture all the time that we're doing something and we're essentially not doing something, and I'm essentially just feeling like we're spilling from hollow to empty. And even this law didn't make some important step and an important topic to say okay, now we really have one law that's our problem, we've come to an end, we don't have the best possible solution, but we're trying to solve it. When it comes to depoliticization, it would be good to know about it then, this law is like that movie Endless Day, every time you wake up or every 4 years, and then you see that things happen again, so this is what we've had once before. When I led one ministry, there was a minister, one secretary of state and four assistants in the ministry. At this point in the same ministry is one minister, three secretary of state and five assistants. This is the case so when the assistants were abolished and turned into administrations, that's what we already had. At that moment, in that same ministry, before the assistants were abolished and transformed into a director, there were four administrations, when they turned to directors, it turned into 11 administrations, they were public tenders, that's true, and the results of these competitions were almost in the 7th month. And the election was that fall. This means that some people who had complaints about their solutions didn't even get a solution that the directors of these individual administrations but didn't sit at the workplace but came up with a change that was at the end of 2011 so that then the 11 directors were rescinded and returned to 4 administrations because these 11 were to satisfy different appetites and that's the fact. Take a look at the ministries today how many State Secretarys you have, how many assistants you have and what you wanted to achieve is not achieved. Equally, we are now here before summer 2019, there by summer 2020 we should be conducting new systematizations, new formations of the ministry, public competitions and again there in the summer of 2020 we will have some public competitions to complete and it will all start over again. This is one of the laws as you can see, there's not much or reported about the debate, he's not causing a big debate in this assembly, and he should. It's something where we build certain systems, it's something that you're actually working on, the way our citizens meet their needs. So it turns out that we're actually just doing it to make something happen and it doesn't really change. I'm getting to the point of decentralisation. Indeed, 20 orderly state administrations will be abolished, these transactions will cross over to the counties, Minister Kuščević said then we will justify the counties. So there's no point in justifying someone or not justifying them. The point is to know who's doing what, to transfer the job, to transfer the liability of the asset. So the city of Zagreb used to have 15 municipalities. Somewhere in '94, '95. The year of all the 15 municipalities that the city of Zagreb was abolished, so it was abolished 23, 24 years ago. I ask my neighbor out one morning, we go out together, I tell the neighbor, where you go, she tells me, you know, I have to report something, I have some tenants, so I'm going to report something, I'm going to the Medvescak municipality. Medveščak municipality is no longer 23, 24 years old but it still goes because it remained in the same place where the Medveščak municipality used to be and where it met its needs, now that you come before any such body, look at how many tables there are. You have a dozen plates. What's the point, the point is that, first of all, we know who's doing what job, what jobs the county's in charge of, but I'm absolutely sure there should be competent cities for some jobs, so who can be operational for certain jobs. So, the result of this will be the re-change of some boards, again some building units, some new solutions for some people will be brought back up, so it's an opportunity for some of you who don't satisfy you to move and some of you to those places, again of the most proselytic solutions for vacations, new solutions for annual vacations will be issued again, so the tables will move, tables will be put on, but if what we want to achieve here, that's the key question. The key question is who does what job, where our citizens can really get what they need in government bodies, really win, how, when will it all work together? What about the decentralisation of the funds needed for it all together. So, as I was saying at the outset, I've been feeling like we're actually just patching up that facade from the outside to show that we're doing something and we didn't actually get into it. The result of this will be as every time we enter any such story and it will be that there will be an increase in certain employees therefore indeed what I said, I am setting an example of the ministry in which I worked long with 4 administrations when the assistants went in, the directors went to 11 administrations, so 11 directors because then different interests should be satisfied. We also have an article 47 that tells us what kind of support the minister will be. There will probably be people behind this speaker who will say that this is not good, that it may be too high to why. I'm one of those who think it's good and I think it exists, it's now called supporting the minister in implementing a particular policy, and I think every minister who comes in here needs 20 ministries or less, but every minister who comes in should be able to pick out a team of associates who are his closest co-workers every day, who run his cabinet and some other stuff. Equally, I'm absolutely convinced that you and your closest associates with that minister must leave these jobs because if they're going to do the same for the other minister then I'm afraid they're not doing the right thing. And we come up with that key topic, no more regulations, no more laws that we have here and let's say that that law will allow digitization. What's in principle is fine. Which we agree absolutely on, but let's finally, we've been talking about digitisation for 5 years, not to mention those 2015 elections that were based on 5 projects, one of those projects that the president of the HDZ then forgot, but the digitization remembered. It's full of mouths but let's see that it really works, that you really work out the possibilities to get a series of credentials that what was actually an idea and a desire to sit in your living room and everything you need to get and you can get to it. Equally so that you do not go door to door but to quickly and simply get information that is really possible and fast and simple. I have a feeling that on one side, it's like that big old train that goes on coal. And I have this feeling all the time that someone's suffering from those first two, three wagons and someone's pummeling away these last wagons and just wanting to go digitize, digitization is not what we see, or let's see it really in nature. The law is often, is articles, or a list of beautiful desires, but what we see in nature is something else. A great effort will need to be made and I believe that you are aware of this, the abolition of these 20 offices of the state administration and the transfer of it to certain counties, the transfer of people, people who, perhaps, should have considered that part of the business goes to large cities. I must say that such a process was related to the issue of acts related to the construction of a local building permit. When it decided to transfer it from the Office of State Administration to the county and at that point other than the counties was the possibility and cities which were the headquarters of the county and the law gave possibility to some other cities. It is absolutely good that these acts have decided to be published where the procedure is in place, so that they are issued on territorial grounds. So what I want to point out for the end is that I generally think it's good to abolish the administration offices because you today, so today when a man needs to get some papers, some gets in his city, something he's got in the state administration office, something he's got in the county, so you absolutely drive a man where he can get and under what conditions and under what conditions and this example of my neighbors, she's still going to the Medvesčak municipality because he knows exactly where he is and knows that he's going to be able to get his acts there. If, as is the announcement of reform, then reform really should be not a word we all enjoy using and we don't really have it, but reform should be real. This isn't it, this is really in an old house we're trying to patch her up a little bit and she's looking for a serious reconstruction or in the end line to crash and make a new one. What I'm trying to say is, for a law like this, and for a story like this, it would be good to have a consensus on everyone, but that's where we have to do a serious job, and not like this, I'd say we got this bill, unfortunately, just one half product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144655	We're going to the 3rd Club, it's the IDS, PGS and RI Club, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144656	Dear President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Since the very beginning of our political action, we have been pushing for faster decentralisation, so no matter what small step this is, we welcome the adoption of this law that goes in that direction. The problems of inefficiencies of the state apparatus, insufficiently expressed development roles of municipalities, cities and counties to the trombone of institutions and the depressed economy are linked. We need to look at the wider picture and admit that municipalities, cities and counties would be far more successful if the state itself were more efficient. On the other hand, the inefficient state apparatus significantly impairs the economy. The solution to the related problems should be found through the process of decentralisation, through the reform of the administration, i.e. by transferring powers to the local level. Why? Because our citizens and entrepreneurs are even 90% of their needs coming true at the local level. It is therefore logical that we need to strengthen local and regional self-government in order to increase the efficiency of the state and have a positive impact on the development of the economy. It's clear there's a lot we need to change. A whole new structure of the distribution of money and debts between the central and local authorities is needed because according to the existing distribution of budgets, the central government spends 90% and such distribution is neither sustainable nor stimulating, and is particularly not correct. I would like to remind you that Croatia, as a signator of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, is obliged to apply the same from 1 February 1998. The basic principles of that Charter are the principle of decentralisation, which obliges signatories countries to ensure political, administrative and financial independence to local authorities and the principle of subsidiarity that requires public powers to be exercised by bodies closest to citizens. The principle of decentralisation, which includes the financial and functional independence of local authorities, is one of the fundamental principles that should be fully included and implemented in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, Croatia has only partially incorporated this principle into our legal system. And all of what I've told you is precisely why we can consider this final bill as an incomplete step towards decentralisation for two basic reasons. First, because this bill does not transfer the affairs of the state administration's office, it only confides in the county. And secondly, funds to cover the costs of these transactions are not provided by the original revenues of the county but rather by the transfer from the state budget. In this respect, both functional and financial decentralisation remained in its original form. The key prerequisite for this is the existence of political will and the achievement of political consensus, which, in this particular case, has, unfortunately, fallen short. The problem is that every government, no matter what option it was in power, is trying to maintain the trom and outdated practice of centralised management that has led us to where we are in the last 30 years. Such a way is seriously threatened by the ability of local communities to perform their development role better, and all to fill the state budget in the short term without any clear strategy and plan. How, then, can we expect a different result as we conduct ourselves in the same destructive logic all these years? We understand that every reform carries with it and some uncertainty and unpredictable results, but we now see that certain things will not work in the right way and it is unclear why the Proposer is prolonging to find possible solutions to these problems. While the most developed European countries are in general, those with the highest degree of decentralisation, where there is a positive competition between cities and regions, we continue to try to lead the whole country... from the Order of the Government in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is always said that some future laws will be resolved, and then certain damages will already occur, the consequences of the law that we are making today. I therefore do not understand the position of the motionors who suggest and comment on the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government only takes note of it, without having received concrete answers for them, and that they will be particularly taken into account when drawing up a proposal for specific laws which will be entrusted to the counties by certain transactions in the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration. The main lack of this final bill is that we do not have a guarantee that the county will really have the financial resources to carry out the tasks entrusted and to pay for the employees taken over. In particular, the problem of harmonising these salaries with the salaries of officials currently working in the counties is highlighted because in most cases they will need to provide additional funds for salaries. Trained by experience so far, it will fall back on the budget of the county and we will continue to increase the state budget and that is why we smoke here and in the cold. Let us remember that all the jobs we took from the state as cities or counties, whether it was fire, health, education, the issue of building permits, that at first certain funds were provided from the state budget, that after a year, 2, 3, those funds were missing. And with the tax reforms that took place over the year, two were being compensated, and still the burden of local and regional (regional) self-government. Therefore, the practice has shown, but also logically, that it is very difficult and very often impossible to pass a detailed regulation that will be equally applicable and efficient at the level of the entire country. We therefore propose that the IDS introduce practices, that rules be introduced at national level to the general form, and that these rules set out certain frameworks, and that the issues which these regulations deal with be further broken down through regional laws. This would allow for more efficient and meaningful application in view of the diversity and specificities of individual regions. I repeat, this is a shift, this is a small step towards decentralisation, but still insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144657	.../ Intruder:... /... Comrade Demetlik, don't lecture me like this in front of, first, just a little bit, let's finish. As far as I'm concerned, I'm for it, and I keep saying it, and I invite everyone, however, out of the ranks of the ruling, there is no elemental respect when spoken. And I agree with you, but there's a way to say it. So I ask everyone to take their seats and respect each other. Let's move on. Dear colleague Podolnjak, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. And please, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Shucker, colleague Shucker, please sit down and not... A fellow Shucker, a colleague of Shuker, so what happened, I told my colleague Demetlik, and I expected that it would be enough for you not to stand in the front row of the back. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think that's quite correct. And I didn't give you any special warning, and I'm asking you not to have this debate. Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144658	I apologize to my colleague Demetliki for turning my back on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144659	Oh, okay. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144660	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin, on behalf of the club, with a formal remark which is also pointed out on the Committee on Legislatives, which I mentioned in the opening replica to the Secretary of State. Indeed, if you are looking at our final proposal, in paragraph 6 the legislator would have to explain the observations, proposals and opinions of the day on the draft law which the applicant did not accept with reasons for not accepting. And then you have a sentence in which the applicant says that the comments and opinions on issues that were not related to the subject matter and the content of the bill and therefore their acceptance, i.e. non-acceptation, are not particularly explained. So all that we've been saying here, all the MPs, no matter what, on some of the articles of the bill, were according to what the Proposer wrote completely beyond the subject of the bill's proposal, so on all the other things just not about the bill's proposal. That's absolutely incorrect. But by doing so, the promoter refused to show himself about all the things that we've been saying here because he would have to give an appropriate explanation why he didn't accept them. I will give you an example of which I spoke on behalf of the club and I know that other representatives have spoken and that this was actually one of the most common topics, it is specifically about Article 47 of the bill which is here in Article 47, so not something which is abstractly outside of the bill's proposal but a concrete article which tells you a well-known article about the employment of persons on the ad, not officials, not civil servants, but persons who will be admitted to the cabinet of ministers as their own political support to the minister, persons who will be admitted for a certain period of time for the term of office. A specific provision in Article 47, which we said at the MOST Club, that we believe is contrary to the Constitution, that it is very similar to that of the provision that was in the earlier law which since 2012 was the so-called model. the revolving door or something like that, persons who came to the state administration in the cabinets of the minister as their own kind of support but persons who were not state officials chosen by the basis of the tender and were neither state officials. It is according to this final proposal of the law about 100 persons because they are called only persons in this law, beware, are not officials and are not officials and are abstract, only persons who will come to the ministries based on the ad, in the Offices of the Prime Minister and President of the Parliament and perform certain tasks, political support to the minister, or other officials. And I said then in my first reading that Minister Kuščević said in an interview we have to surround ourselves with people who are with us. Why, then, this form of adverts and everything else when it is clear that the service wants people who are politically elected on the grounds that they are members of a party who are politically close to the ministers and so on. I wasn't the only one talking about it on behalf of the club, other representatives said. But, Mr. Secretary of State, you, in your explanation why you did not accept certain remarks, and those which we have presented and those which we have said are contrary to the Constitution... that surely the Constitutional Court will again deal with that provision, you have not written anything at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You simply avoided being obvious because you would have to answer something why these provisions are in accordance with the Constitution and we have found that they are not. And why are they different from the ones the Constitutional Court abolished a few years ago? And why there are people on the political line coming to the state administration and they're not civil servants and we want to depolitize the state administration, and you've advertised this law to go towards depoliticalization of the state administration. Absolutely incorrect. But you were obliged to explain why you did not accept what we were saying in the debate. Well, in the end, I believe that if this law is voted in such a form as that in Article 47, you will have to explain it to the Constitutional Court one day. You mentioned that you adopted a suggestion and a remark made by a colleague of Grmoi, and she was also given here in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and referred to this famous Article 12 of the bill where you then proposed the restriction of freedom and the rights of natural persons if it is necessary to achieve a law for the purpose and then, and then, in the debate here, your colleague told you that it was absolutely contrary to the Constitution because the Constitution does not allow the restriction of the rights and freedom of natural persons, if necessary in order to achieve the purpose laid down by any law. So neither the Law on the State Administration System, but according to the Art. 16. The Constitution of freedom and rights of Croatian citizens against bureaucratic and political violence can only be limited by law, in order to protect other people's freedoms and rights and legal order, public morality and health. And that article. 12. in the formulation he was in the bill he was completely left out. So you wrote in your explanation that you further completed the provisions of the article. Article 3 12. You are not the one who completed the decree. 12, you deleted it. Based on what he told you in the debate and his colleague, Nicole Grmoy. And that's what you said earlier to me on the line, but that, if a representative in HS said that, and that's why you deleted that provision, you didn't write it here. And that's a fact, and that's why I repeat it to the public who is following this debate. That you wanted to classify in this law a provision contrary to the Constitution and that, on the basis of the debates of the representatives in HS that you did not want to mention, you left out the provision entirely. 12, did you cover it up in a way that you're an officer. 11 of the bill was divided into two parts, so you left the first section in Art. 11th, and 2nd, you have completely transferred to Art. 12. And so you've actually masked that you're an article. 12. completely abandoned and any MP in this HS can verify by comparing the bill's proposal and the final draft of the law. So much for the objectivity of what you wrote in this final bill. Let me finally refer to this section relating to the takeover of civil servants who are now working in the offices of the state administration in the offices of the county administration. Something you have not responded to in this section where you have actually responded, these were comments made to certain articles of this law, especially articles relating to transitional provisions, where many MPs pointed to the fact that many individual laws would require the transfer of certain tasks from the level of the Office of State Administration to the County. You actually, looking at this law that's being passed today, no one knows exactly when these government officials in the county offices will become county officials. About 2,500 of them. No one knows exactly what will be the financial cost of taking over these employees. You're saying that one part of these employees might accept severances and a contractual break-up of a working relationship. We don't have any idea what number of employees might accept, such an agreement break-up. What I can assume, knowing the situation in the county, are in most of them, I believe significantly higher wages than they are in the state administration. This means that the current civil office officials will actually have a higher salary by leaving, i.e. by taking over from the administrative departments of the county, perhaps 20, 30 % and more because the salaries in units of local and regional (regional) self-government are generally known, significantly more than in state offices. I wonder if they'd rather choose a contractual breakup and severance or if they'd want to work still for maybe a significantly higher salary than they had until then. I did not get the answer, I was also talking about it in the first debate in the bill's proposal, however, you did not specify in the reasoning of the law which is your position on this and why you are convinced that employees will accept retirement or contractual termination and severance and that this will significantly relieve the counties in taking over employees of state offices. Finally, it is important that the counties receive certain financial resources when they have to take over these employees. I don't see that we've given the last county law these extra funds for more employees, because if there are now 2500 thousand in these offices. Countys all together have about 2,500 thousand employees. I don't know maybe exactly, the latest data, but it's about that much. And the question was raised here in the debate, why didn't you consider checking certain jobs for cities or big cities, if, for example, it was earlier in some other jobs, for example, spatial planning. When large cities and cities did not know, county headquarters took over certain jobs that had been done before in the offices of the state administration. Why only the county? Why not big cities? I believe that large cities, cities of county headquarters even have stronger capacity to take over certain jobs, at least for the areas of these cities, so it is regulated, for example, in the earlier phase of decentralisation when these jobs were taken over by large cities and seats, cities in the county headquarters, and for the areas of the municipalities it was taken over by the counties. Why isn't the same model accepted and now by the logic of things? Why does each new government choose a different model of a certain trust in state administration affairs? So once we have good big cities or cities of county headquarters, and for some other purposes, we need counties that we know are fiscally far weaker than cities. In fact, there is no answer in your mind because it was part of the debate, referring to the transitional and final provisions of this law, you did not manifest yourself. What is the point of the debate in the Croatian Parliament when you, as a proponent at all, did not absolutely show yourself to anything, so you did not even show yourself to the part why you did not accept it, and therefore we are absolutely inadmissible with this final proposal of the law and the club of the representatives of MOST will vote against this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144661	Now we're going to the Fifth Independent Representatives' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144662	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. Given that it is a second reading, I will try only to make some other comments, which were already said in the first reading, and they are only related to the opening presentation of the secretary of state when he said the objectives, he said three goals, I will look at only two goals because this third goal simply exceeds when we talk about digitalisation, goes beyond the frameworks of this legislative proposal and it is a much wider problem, regarding many aspects not only of the state administration but of the entire organisation of the Republic of Croatia and everything that has not yet been experienced in practice and which citizens are facing on a daily basis. The first goal that the secretary of state highlighted, it is depolitisation and professionalization of the state administration and that man really when he hears such a message has nothing to do with it is, it is necessarily necessary and it is extremely important. Data tell us, you can find this on the website of the FINA that despite a small number of employees in the Republic of Croatia and we now see that they are looking for and, employers are looking for an increase in employment quotas, I would tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently approve those quotas, let them hire people because these people will pay in pension contributions, health contributions and taxes in this country because in this way and so on and so on from the institution they will not withdraw, so we see that the worker is missing in the Republic of Croatia, there is a small number of workers relative to the number of pensioners, and then we see according to the data of the FINA that is a large part of the large part and in the poor counties that is 1/3, even in Ličko-Senj County 40%, and interesting in the city of Zagreb is that percentage higher than in the poor Slavonian counties, a large number of people who are based on budgets and in this sense I see this law. This law is extremely important, many workers today work in public or state services, are based on budgets. And now we're going back to the notion of depolitisation, the abolition of former ministerial assistants, the appointment of director of the administration. It is clear to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia that at some point in a particular ministry a man is appointed on the basis of political party membership, it is a rule in the Republic of Croatia, we can hide our eyes or hide it under the carpet or not, close our eyes but it is simply so. Or to ask a question like this, do you really trust colleagues and colleagues that any citizen of the Republic of Croatia believes that he can only apply to the competition and get a job in this country based on his ability? Unfortunately, it's a defeating image of politics in this country, that's not so. If we say otherwise, then we lie to ourselves. Therefore, the abolition of assistants who are state officials and tendering and selecting now state officials who will be directors of the administration is one procedure to be welcomed but I personally think that he will not ultimately be the goal of achieving what he wanted but will again be made on the basis of political membership. It's my personal opinion but that thing doesn't stop, the director of that administration, and he's going to decide on everything that's going to happen in that administration, so he's going to be later involved in receiving employees, other officials, and then that circle doesn't close. So, but this problem goes beyond the framework of this law, in this society it may take some more time or more public control will be needed to overcome these problems. The next goal was warned by the secretary of state, it is decentralisation and rationalisation. I think some predecessors, he thinks Mr. Demetlik said and otherwise I think it's more or less clear, there's no decentralisation without fiscal decentralisation. As regards fiscal decentralisation, decentralisation always involves a particular selectively designed and financially supported transfer of tasks of jurisdiction and authority, state and central authorities to lower levels of government, therefore local authorities. If you do not have financial decentralisation then decentralisation can in itself be a good intention but will not live in practice. In other words, when we talk about units of local self-government and regarding the Law of Payments in local and (area) regional self-government, the Law on Officials and corporals in local and (area) regional self-government and we talk about salaries in state, state officials that are allocated to 5, to 5 different, 5 different laws and collective agreements, then we see that in the Republic there is a wide variety of these salaries, so people for the same range of jobs get, differently, paid and now there is a case for us to move to local self-government, regional self-government, they will no longer be worth the laws that determine their salaries, but the Law on wages on local and regional self-government, and therefore, which the State Secretary has just pointed out, and the general rule of law will not apply to them, that there is no longer a matter of locality, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, nor of law, of law, of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of law, of any of law, of any of any of law, of any of law, of law, of any of law, of any of law, of law, of any, of any, of law, of law, of law, of law, of law, of law, of law, of law, of law, of law, of law or of the law, of law or of law or of law or of law or of law or of law or of law or of law or of law or of law or of law, of law, of law or of law, of law, of law or of law or of It can be lower or higher and now that you ask the secretary of state, could you answer where it is better to work in the state service or local self-government units? Hey, now it depends again, is that in Slavonia or is that at sea, right? So there's one inequality. Here, here he said, I think the minister said, I said I'd back all his laws if it worked. He mentioned that the government's intensities would be to go towards equating a full public, public administration and units of local self-government and state services, and even public services as far as possible to establish a fair system, I said at that time if it is really going in this direction, it should certainly be welcomed, however, I don't think this is legal, and of course crosses these frameworks of this legislative proposal, but the ministry, the government has to think in this direction to establish a fair system because we have today, and we should mention it in the context of this debate, we have a chief volunteer who has a higher salary than certain commissioners who are professionals, depending on the municipality. We have a captain who has huge salaries, all depends on the fiscal capacity of local self-government units. I think that there are certain restrictions in the Law on the salaries of those local, regional self-governments, however, these restrictions were, even in due time, written to the Constitutional Court that these restrictions were anti-constitutional, but these restrictions are not enough and are not good enough to introduce, to introduce order into the units of local self-government, but of course with respect to their independence. This legislative proposal, although it is good that I welcome the adoption and intensity of the ministry, so it is better to work, it is best not to work niša, is it, then says there is no, there is no earthquake, there is something to be done, but far from that, it is from the outlined goals that are wanted here, they want, they want to achieve because the key and basic question and I am sorry that Minister Kuščević was not in the first reading, nor in the second reading, the key and basic question is whether such a territorial structure of the Republic is being cemented and will he remain still? We have a huge army of units of local self-government, we have, here I will mention this one company, but with public powers, of course we could mention the other, these are Croatian waters where there are an army of people who are professional, and you know what happens to us on the ground, in the area of sewage and water supply? So-called agglomerations that allocated 90% of the funds from the EU Fund. You know what theirs is now, at what level they've achieved success? 10%, and 90% of the funds were blocked, allocated, so they took over the projects in this huge amount, and only 10%, to 10% of the realisation, and Croatian waters, people in Croatian waters, forgive me for saying, I won't say they didn't know what to do, send them to the field to do, that Minister Kuščević has to train, units of local self-government to be successful, I'm going to say again, I'm not, Mr Chičak didn't believe me when I said, and in the media it says 32 cities didn't even withdraw the kuna funds from the European funds, these are things we need to think about, these are things that we need to think about the state administration, the legal proposal itself and the problems won't solve, what can I say now? Personally, and if I vote yes and no, I won't change anything, so it seems to me now, and that is, unfortunately, the consequences, I'm going to talk to my clubmates, and I think we're going to be restrained on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144663	Now we're going to Club No. 6, this is the Club of HNS Representatives and dear colleague of Christmas Macar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144664	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, distinguished secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague, so I must admit that it sounds really nice when the secretary of state explains this law to us that it is depolitisation and decentralisation of the state administration that is being resolved by this law. With that we all agree that we should, we all agree on this HS, but our citizens who talk about it all the time, and it would be really nice if this law could solve it with one move, one magic wand. But we know that's not the case. Finally, this law should result in the optimization of the entire public administration from local, regional and national levels. There have been different legal solutions so far when we talk about centralization, so we're '93. institute county offices as state administration bodies performing first-degree public administration tasks. 2001. Special government offices have been set up, and this bill makes these offices return to the county again. We at the HNS certainly support decentralisation and therefore think that this is a certain step, that this is a small step forward, however, the question is whether it will ultimately be that way. First of all, what benefits our citizens will have from it are important to us at the HNS. He did not want it just to happen that by crossing the state administration's office in the county citizens do not experience any improvement but only see changes in the name, so they will no longer go to the state administration's office but to the county office, although they will hardly notice it because they will probably stay in the same place and they will always go to the city or municipality, rarely anyone who really follows these names and changes. It is important that the citizens of this law will feel better, that something will be more quality, faster, cheaper, that they will get a favor exactly as they deserve. In fact, much depends on the people who work in these offices, they really shouldn't be bureaucrats but service to our citizens, not only in these offices, but in fact in their entire, all the offices that provide certain services. Of course, these offices should also be digitized because unfortunately we still have a lot of things to deal with by taking paper from one counter to another, from one employee to another, so now bring me the notes and the time when we'll be solving the services by electronic means, when it will be resolved, the citizens will be far more satisfied. There have already been words about the salaries of people who work in these state offices, they are really lower than the salaries in local and regional self-government units, and I think it's hard to find a local self-government unit in which the salary for the same training is not higher than in the state administration's office. We need to see how the county will now organise the work of its offices, whether they will use employees from their other departments, whether they will make some replacements, whether perhaps because of rationalisation and savings they will come to some offices to stop being in certain cities, in certain places. That's all the questions that we're going to ask, they're probably going to go on a walk, and that's because we see that these people are being suggested to offer them severances that want to retire, that meet the conditions. Although me and HNS believe that there are extremely professional and quality people in the offices of the state administration and that we must not stimulate them to retire or go to the real sector or other services, but should stimulate them and keep them in the system because quality people are really missing in the system. Maybe not in that place, but we are aware of the problems facing our small municipalities, our cities. They just don't have the capacity to do certain things. We also heard that with projects that have not pulled anything from EU funds, when it comes to public procurement these are new problems, there are really no professional people in these small municipalities who could do it. Normally, any municipality such as this of 1,500 inhabitants is not able to finance such experts, so it should really be considered that several municipalities are being organised and that these people are being used for licensed persons who can carry out public procurement activities. On the subject of forming a unit of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia its optimal number would not now enter, this law does not solve it either, but you may see in that particular segment how to use these people, not to stimulate them to retire or to seek some other job with severance. Because our citizens really need a faster, cheaper, more quality service at all levels than municipalities, cities, counties and states. And that this part about depoliticization, yes, because that should mean professionalization in some sense, although I think that these people were really professional and professional now. Although we have now had assistant ministers who were directors of the administration, newly they will be elected to the competition and I say that they were professional that it should be even more objective and that we all have equal chances for such places. Our ministries had a specific management method. We had three levels, Minister, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Such a system is difficult to find in any other EU Member State, so it is good to solve these problems in that part too. And again I will repeat what is important is that this law brings to our citizens what benefits, does this mean finally digitization and the end of going to offices, end of marks, end of waiting, faster and more quality service. Because that's probably what we in HNS want. We think this step, this law is a step towards it, and that's why we in HNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144665	The seventh club of MPs is SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144666	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, the position of the SDP Club on this bill in the vote will depend on the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on our two amendments that we have submitted, and I will say more about them later. So, this law brings in four important, four important newspapers, so I'm going to do the easiest one, which is art. The 47th so-called Revination Doors, second only, in another way, therefore, since the Revination Door system was introduced in 2012. then in the Law on State Officials and that at the end of the term of office, the Constitutional Court had put him out of force, in my opinion a little and too harshly, that it was more for formal reasons, less of content, and that perhaps instead of abolishing those provisions, it was necessary to give some time and guidance to regulate it in another way because what we now have in Article. 47th is no different from, from the Revising Door system except in the formal status of persons who will work in the cabinets of the Minister. What I would still like to say is that in the 8th century, which speaks of the law of the article. 47th, which speaks of the right of persons at work in the cabinet of the Minister and in accordance with Article 7 of the same law, I believe that these, those persons, have been brought into a much more unfavourable position than the civil servants because they are not subject to collective contract rights, for example, according to what it says, a person who would come to work in the cabinet of the Minister, for example. from Karlovac, she would not have the right to travel expenses according to what it says, and the official who might be working with him, almost a similar job, the door to him in some administration, would have the right to do so under a collective contract and other rights that are about, therefore, simple and everyday for civil servants, but they are not by chance in a collective contract, therefore, those persons would still be in a significantly more unfavourable, unfavourable position, so I suggest, therefore, to the Ministry and the Government to reconsider once again which, with which difficulties could be encountered, therefore, persons of art. 47th century of this law. Another significant newspaper is the abolition, or I would call it the occasional shut-down, the gradual suspension of the state administration's office as first-degree authorities of the state administration, however, the old school says it is good to see transitional and final provisions in each law, and in the transitional and final provisions in Article. In 67, he said that the administrations of state administrations in the counties will continue to work until special laws enter into force, which will be entrusted to the counties by certain public administrations in the jurisdiction of the state administration's office. So, as we get what law in HS, it will slowly shrink or land the administration's offices until the last one comes in a series of laws, so that theoretically, if this last one is with the least number of employees, it will eventually be left with 5 employees, and then the last five, the one can turn off the light or let it be, so it would be good in art. In the 67th or in another article, to prescribe the deadline for the adoption of such laws or for, for the functioning of the Office of State Administration. Of course, here we are also talking about the mechanism of changing the status of civil servants to officials in units of regional self-government or in the City of Zagreb because part of the work done by public administration offices in other counties in the City of Zagreb has already been 20 years. conducts the city administration. So it may have been easier to rewrite or prescribe that these people immediately cross over to the county and that they, they do the affairs of state administrations as they do in the City of Zagreb, have already been here for nearly 20 years. From the system, the 2001 System Act seems to me, that's either '02, so that's one thing that you should also pay attention to. Now we're going to this, to this little bit, to this a little bit harder, and that's the question of the relationship of the officers who will be directors and assistant ministers. I listened very carefully to my colleague, Boris, who had very correctly noticed that the system with directors as officials at the head of the ministry's administrative organisations had actually lasted until the first next parliamentary elections when the new parliamentary majority, not even before the government's vote of confidence, changed the system. And since I was part of that parliamentary majority, one of the legislators, it's very simple to explain why it happened. Because we thought it was 2009. In fact, the government did not depolitize, but the politicization of the state service, and that most of those, who were ministerial servants, appointed to official posts, and thus actually put politicians in the state service, and that was why it was changed, all those who were in the state service, remained in the state service, so all those who may not have been before the appointment of director, state officials, received, some of them and appointed as assistants, some of them became chiefs of the sector that then increased, increased and paid not to be a large, large drop for them, for these officials and such a system worked with the minister and the deputy, here already from 2012 to 2019, so from 6.5, 6.5, 6.5, then 2016, the state secretary was introduced, and then increased the number of officials, and indeed the other level, was one, which was one level, that was too much notice. So, in the system in which we have the Minister, State Secretary, Revising Door and Assistants, it can be defended that the highest level of governance of state administration organisations since, therefore, the minister has relatively high opportunities to bring the team of people into the download system, let's say, businesses. However, we continue with regard to the 2009 experience. We have one reserve of whether it will work again on the repolytisation of the state service, so if it were to happen again that most of those who are at the head of the administrative organisations as assistants, remain only as officers, and I don't see that there's such a reform wave and a desire for human resources change in the government so that now, at the head of all the administrations, all of a sudden those who came as assistants, they'd go, now they'd go, they'd stay on the street, they'd go to the street, and then some other professional, non-political, come to places in the ministries, to official places. That's why we're going to give two amendments to prevent and eliminate our fear that this is going to happen, first it's going to be in Art. 45th regulation, therefore, that I will read to the state, state, that, in the work of 45th century, the work of the administrative organizations within the departments is handled by civil servants who have at least, who have spent at least 10 years. in the civil service if the special law is not otherwise arranged. This would really strengthen the desire to depolitize and get the possibility, therefore, that someone who is already 10 years old, at least 10 years old. in the state service, indeed the crown of its career, is given to the director of the management organisation as part of the ministry, which is, for example, for the chiefs of the sector, at least until recently, it takes 4g. to be in the public service, then 4 years, respectively. Experience, so it's logical for the director to just be something more, so it's the first one, it's the first amendment to further strengthen both the expertise and the depolitisation of the state administration. The second amendment is, the second amendment is, therefore, in Art. 69th, which is in the transitional provisions of 1st century, which would say that the minister, that the procedures for the appointment of directors of administrative organisations in the form of ministries, will be initiated by the ministry after the government of the Republic of Croatia has been entrusted with the next parliamentary elections. This would also avoid this possibility for the state service to be cemented with existing officials, to put it that way. If the government's intentions for depoliticalisation and for increasing expertise are so strong and sincere, then with this, with these two amendments we will further strengthen it and will be removed lastly concerned that such provisions would cement the existing situation and that politicians would in fact be renamed as officials to the greatest extent. If these two amendments were accepted, the SDP Representatives' Club will support the changes, or the new State Administration System Act, if they do not accept it, and if, if our concerns about the re-policing of the administration after that, then we will again have a country like 2012 once and when possible, and this is that again in the first session of the HS after the elections, we will have to intervene in this law, and that would not be good, then we better resolve it in this way and set up a system that will endure various changes in the political sphere and which will then be something that will be cemented in our state administration for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144667	Thank you. It is now Mr Davor Vlaovic's turn to speak for the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144668	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, here on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats, a few words about the Law on the System of State Administration. In fact, we are all in order to have an efficient state administration, to have a state administration which aims to provide services to citizens and to provide services in a satisfactory way, and on the other hand that it has not burdened the economy and labour costs, that it is acceptable or affordable to our owners, and then at first we should say what kind of state administration in the Republic of Croatia we have, should say that this government has said that it will launch a reform of state administration and a series of laws and decisions was made in that direction, but what needs to be said, although the citizens know that this government has increased the number of ministries, that it has increased the number of central offices of state administrations that have malts not the status of ministries, so here is now from the next year and the Croatian Fire Community will get that status, which I personally am glad that it is the firemen and deserve, they really give their contribution every day, but this is the fact that it is now from the most important system, that our farmers. The fact is that countries similar to the size of the Republic of Croatia, similar to the population, have 10, 12 ministries, and we have 20 + 5 and 6 central offices of the state administration, central authorities, and that's an expensive system, that's a fact. And in parallel with this, it has been announced that savings will be done through the employment of the state administration bodies, so the justice of the minister and secretary of state will be said to the assistant ministers in the first year of office, but here we are almost in the third and only now going with it, we are going back to the old, which is the directors of the administration, thus trying to hide that it is the depolitisation of the administration and I think, in my opinion, and in our opinion from the HSS, it is a good model for the directors of the administration to go to the public tender and to base their knowledge, expertise and previous experience of the labour force to run a particular administration of the ministries. However, it should be realistic to say that this is now a watchdog and that now before the parliamentary elections that are next year, they want to cement the situation and that the vast majority of these ministerial assistants will become directors of the administration. It's realistic to expect, we'll see state secretaries, we'll see, I wish I was wrong about that, not that I have something against these people, I believe they've both done their job honestly and in quality, but the fact that new people who are not from politics, who have expertise, can hardly become directors of the administration through a competition tomorrow unless they have a ruling card. That's the reality, that's what the former ministers and the former government did, so that's how it is in our political practice. And there would be nothing wrong with having an administration that meets the needs of citizens, which meets the needs of the economy, and what did the citizens say about that administration? Well, they said they weren't satisfied, over 75% of our fellow citizens are unhappy with how the state is run and in which direction the state is going, and what's even more tragic, a large number of our citizens have left the Republic of Croatia because of such a model of rule. And what we as HSS have already pointed out here is that not only reforms are being done to reform under cover of savings, that 20 different agencies, institutions and bodies are being abolished, and there are no real savings, and what is bad and I have repeatedly repeated that the abolished Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service, Croatian Agricultural Agency and a series of agencies, the Croatian Agricultural Land Agency, and there is no efficiency, the costs remained because people took over from the ministry, you had increased costs of changing tables, stamps, etc. And the result is that, here, only when the specific law on agricultural land and its implementation stands, standing where? In the ministry. Most units of local self-government have made available programmes for state-owned agricultural land and have not received consent for the same for a year and there are no new competitions, there is no possibility that our farmers can round up their property through new areas that they would receive in a lease or concession tender. Here's where this government and this administration are scheduled, and we have a reform of the reduction of state bodies, and we see that it's not always effective because it's lost for a year until this re-shuffle and it's done, and that's why it's in the ministry, at least I have that kind of information. It is crucial to know who is working, who is responsible for what is responsible and that the service provided to our citizens is satisfactory and therefore this return of the state administration's office under the authority of the county, which was and, the mayor was the head of the body and county and the state administration's office until 2000, we can welcome the reason why most of our fellow citizens and came to the county to seek solutions and the first to be hit, was the mayor, rarely who knew he was in the same building and the state administration's office and often there was a overlap between the offices of the state administration offices and the county administration departments and they had to supplement themselves and the people were walking from door to door, I hope that this transition of the state administration's office under the mayor's and the county's authority would achieve that we have an efficient administration and that the citizen knows what he was going to do and that it was quickly resolved, that one model of decentralisation that he was not properly made and that the other, but that the fiscalization of the others, which would be necessary. Yes, through tax changes, increased revenues by counties through, from income tax, but it is still not enough to cover all these employees who will cross from the state administration's office to the county and the new jobs that are coming to them. Let's face it, it's not fair to the employees of the state administration's office, and it's not explained yet, and I've even asked the mayors at meetings of the government and the mayor how it's going to be done, will that cleaning lady who's now crossing from the state administration's office and coming under the county, under the mayor, have the same personal income as the cleaning lady who was hired by the mayor? No, it will gradually increase those personal incomes, but the county has no means to do so. Already, most of the counties, especially Slavonians, are in that 20% bonus of the original income they make for their personal income, with new employment from the state administration's office will surely exceed that, so you will have to change that bill or provide them with new sources of income because, for example, here's a Ship-Posavina County, you have to borrow to co-finance projects of energy recovery on hospitals, schools, etc., over 100 million kuna of investment, which is to be commended, but it is bad enough that there are not enough of its own sources of income, but must be credited to co-finance these projects and what is even worse, now there are no, until these projects are completed, and how to open new jobs if there are not enough to attract funds from the EU, especially in economically-demographically depressed areas, which is certainly Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is justified. And I think that, in these transitional and final provisions where you have stated that the extra taxpayers from the tax administration will take part through the severance and temporary retirement and that should be said because here in the talks with people this model will accept only those who are one year until retirement because it is acceptable for them and they will most likely accept it and all those who are 3, 4 or 5 years old will not accept it because it is economically unacceptable for them and you will have to provide county funds for their employment, for their professional training and for quality work. You mention here and an efficient administration, reducing the burden on citizens and reducing administration. That's good. However, a large number of central bodies still require natural persons, service seekers to contribute documents themselves. And that's why we welcome the digitalization model and that most of these documents can be obtained on official duty. However, what I would like to point out is that this system would be effective then it needs to be much more, much more invested in the State Geodetic Administration, in the construction of the catastrophe and grantovnica. There was a good model that has been implemented for years through the resources of the State Geodetic Administration, County and municipalities, and some of the citizens themselves have been taking care of land books. Why did that give up, why doesn't it continue, I think that should give an accent because here we heard yesterday that only 30 percent of the assets in the garter and the catastro are related to the OIB. And how on your official duty will you obtain documents if it hasn't been carried out in the catastrophe and the garland. And I think it's a prerequisite for digitization, for all the eyewitnesses that are being led into public state bodies, that we have a condition, first of all, in the garter and the catastrophe. And what is this message that some journalists write that Minister Kustević has introduced a cadastre in motion and personally is in violation because his own house in Nereziste has not been spent in a cadastre and grantovnica, it is still being conducted as a pasture. Minister, what kind of message do you send to your fellow citizens if you haven't personally done it since 2008 when he got the used license for that house he didn't spend it on garter and cadastre? Yeah, it's up to us to start our own initiative to spend our properties in the garland and catastre. But why do I mention it? Not only because the minister is in violation, he will probably answer because he is allegedly going to be prosecuted, but because of all of us fellow citizens who say so I can't, along with paying for legalisation, go to grants and cadastres to look for a solution to enrolling my property when 5 of us is co-owner of this property and one solution is issued and 5 of us and 5 of the administrative fees must be paid. Minister Bosnjakovic last said he would change that rule but I think it is the absurds everyone sees and I don't know why it takes so long to change it and part of the citizens because of these costs don't spend it. Well, here's just as an example and an appeal that this changes urgently because of all our fellow citizens if we want to relieve both our citizens and the economy of all these parafiscal duties and these administrative fees. And I will say that both the HSS and the Democrats will submit an amendment to Article 47, because if, before that employment model is at the will of the minister, I see no reason why this article is trying to get through because you will likely be in a position to re-launch and to question constitutionality, and again this will come into question. And especially since I don't think that's good for two reasons. You hire young people for a certain time. What's his chance to plan his life, his credit, his apartment, his car? Not at all. And a large percentage, almost 40% of contracts at a certain time are among young people up to 40 years old in Croatia. And at that rate we are among, we have the highest rate of such youth employees for a certain time in Europe. We have to change that. And secondly, if you're a minister, why didn't you bring it down to the mayors, the mayors and the mayors? They come with politics, and they go with politics. And I think it's unconstitutional that only the minister has the right to agree. Okay, every government agrees with the team but then it should be equal rules for everyone who comes politically to certain functions and then it would be the right one or, it would stop the politicization of the administration but then call it that and not say that this is the depoliticalization of the administration. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144669	Thank you. Now it is Mr. Ivan Šipic's turn to begin individual debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The system of state administration is directly focused on the lives of people and services and a whole series of institutions need to facilitate overall life and functioning in the sense that the faster, sooner and more efficient our people get the necessary service. Of course the keywords here we heard this law were depoliticization i.e. the attempt to remove policy influences from all possible political interferences and pressures, professionalisation, access to every job requires a serious and responsible relationship and that only results. Decentralisation means greater responsibilities but also powers of units of local self-government and regional government. Digitalization, modern time also requires a different approach, the introduction of a single management post. This means that it can be facilitated as quickly and efficiently as possible and come up with papers, documents, consent, etc., etc., which our many citizens today still do not have. What we can certainly do here when we talk about digitisation to welcome the announcement of a project that we haven't even mentioned in these discussions is the introduction of a broad-based internet project that will not only open many jobs through the Ministry of Regional Development, and many investments in many parts, especially in areas that are less developed, such as our Dalmatian Zagora, so the announcement of many projects on this issue, I believe that this will make it easier and what we're talking about. This law advocates rationalization, a more efficient administration, a modern approach to solving problems, and that is why it would be good to remove the politicisation of all the laws as soon as the debate is opened, so we tend to politicise the law itself immediately, so that we can see in one part of this debate on behalf of the clubs that this approach is done, and I will agree with my colleague Mrak Taritash and many colleagues who have said a very, very important topic, but we also see some clubs talking about amendments at all and are not taking part in any of the discussions of some clubs. So their mouths are full of reforms, their mouths are full of populist approaches, but here we can see they're not taking part in this very important topic. So on the one hand, we have access to a lot of people in love, to prepare the ground for political equalists, etc., and so on, so we immediately cast doubt and care into the debate itself, on the very subject and on the very current problems through this law. So if we were all in the field able to have the voice of people who work in the state administration and from many heard that much better was before, but that we should all be together and modernised and direct what is essentially, which is the first dispatch of the state administration and that is the direction of faster and more efficient, with more coordination towards people, then it is also necessary to welcome the effort to make this law a system of state administration as much as possible aimed at citizens and to give what needs to be given and that is easier, faster, more efficient, approach to solving the problems of many of our fellow citizens. We're colleagues here, dear, we're already slowly twisting the thesis, and that's what's going to happen with wages, etc., and so on, I'd rather turn the story around if all these people are doing well and if we can also reward whoever's working but the same way that we can tell someone who doesn't do it that way and open the door to look for another time. That way we should approach, not immediately how much it's going to cost, how much it's going to cost, etc., how much we're going to pay, and if we're going to arrest someone. I don't think that's how we send a good message. This law leads to rationalization and should be supported as such, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144671	Two replicas, first asked for Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144672	Thank you very much. Mr. Šikić, when we look at you, pardon Šipić, when we look at your entire debate, it is obvious that you explain to the Croatian public as if you had fallen from Mars, it gives reason to change this law depolitization and more rational government of the state and easier obtaining services. So what you're saying here right now, 99% of the citizens don't feel and don't believe that you're mistaken, whether or not you've been planted by the HDZ Representatives' Club by the government, because we see that these directors are members of the HDZ and on the other hand that the state administration is on the rise, so every day there's more and more employees in the state administration, and that's the problem. So try to bring yourself into reality and try to explain to people what's going on and not what they gave you from the government and whether what you want to believe in HDZ, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144673	Time, Mr. Maras. Don't think I'm privileged. Not to be privileged, but for 16 seconds, you've moved on with yours and my fault. Here you go, Mr. Shipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144674	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Maras, I have learned the last name so much, since you were the most famous, most popular minister in the SDP government, one of the most significant which has led Croatia to the zenith, I must simply point out that. While I was speaking and trying to say something with a few words about this important topic, you did not listen to me at all, since you spoke to your colleagues and since you commented on who knows maybe the current political events and the presidential elections and the SDP situation, etc., etc., you did not concentrate at all what I was saying. So I would ask more respect to my colleague because I, and I'm not just colleagues on the left, I'm a colleague, so you guys were talking, I was just looking over there, while I was talking about this wheel. The second thing you learn, though, is that I am Šipić, not Šikic, so you've been telling me that three times already, so you insult me that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144675	Thank you. And Mr. Maras is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144676	Thank you very much. 238 was injured apparently, a colleague said that I didn't concentrate, I was...../Intruder Radin... I didn't hear well? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If I hadn't focused on his discussion, she was such that the man couldn't concentrate, but I still listened and followed what my colleague Šipic was saying, so it's simply not true. So people see in Croatia that HDZ has politicized public exactly and that's the problem, so you can talk here as much as you want, but people see that the politicised public administration and no matter how angry your colleague Shuker is and tried to run the session, I ask you to restrain him, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144677	Time, Mr. Felak asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144678	Your Honor, Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maraskino insisted on insulting his colleague Šipić about his concentration, not the concentration of what he now said in this injury to the Rules of Procedure. I would not like to call it a different last name but he is constantly using such a hoax by most MPs clearly from our HDZ coalition, so Mr. Maraskino once won the elections in Zagreb, then he will be able to talk about something relevant, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144679	Time, Mr. Felak. We'll go over these two injuries to the Rules of Procedure as if they were gone and we'll move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Pet Maximchuk, please? And I'm sorry, ma'am. The voter, the second replica, I apologize, ma'am. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144680	Thank you very much. Mr. Šipić, I would like to see this law contribute to the fact that we are really going towards greater efficiency and professionalisation of the state administration, but if you are going to make existing assistant ministers chosen by the political key, just to rename them, or tomorrow, into some professional directors of the administration, then it is not the professionalisation of the state administration but rather the politicisation of the state administration, but live to see if the existing assistants become directors and whether this law will actually serve professionalisation or politicisation of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144681	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144682	Well esteemed fellow Members, thank you, Vice President, dear fellow Members, I have just emphasized in my statement that today's debate and this replica of yours is going in the direction of politicizing everything we are trying to direct and put on healthy feet, either you or we. So now I'm not just saying us or that series of Ours and yours, but I'm saying exactly what's going on, that here's also in this way and this approach, that as soon as something that's trying to be put on healthy legs and I think and I think that this approach is trying to, to immediately involve politicization, here you have already divided our armchairs, our seats, etc., etc. But what she did, I'm not going to transfer to you now as you return to me, etc., etc., what this government, this government, it's not the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144683	Time, thank you. We're continuing our individual debates. My sweetheart Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144684	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration, which aims to achieve and improve the existing state of affairs in the state administration. The applicable law has been in force for 7 years and has proved to be hierarchical and functionally illogical and inconsistencies in the conduct of the affairs of the state administration. The current law established 52 state administration bodies that are divided into 32 central state bodies, 20 ministries, 5 central state offices, 7 state administrations and 20 first-degree bodies and 20 state administration offices per county. With the State Administration System Act of 2016, Deputy Ministers have been replaced into State Secretarys or become State officials and those in one or more administrative departments implement government policy, while ministerial assistants have been detained as state officials and they directly manage management organisations in the ministry, resulting in 3 levels of governance and 3 levels of state officials in the ministries. The purpose of the system of state administration is legal, effective and effective doing business, so this new law requires us to achieve here, and we see that from it we need to achieve 3 goals, which is depolitisation and professionalisation of the state administration, decentralisation or the approximation of the state administration to citizens, and the third is the digitisation of the state administration. When we talk about depoliticisation and professionalisation of the state administration, one of the most important changes in this law is the reduction of the number of state officials and we see here in Article 45 that the following state officials are listed in the bodies of the state administration, which are the Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State of State, Director-General, Chief State Inspector and other persons in accordance with special law. Administrative organisations within the ministry are projected to be managed by government officials. that the ministers' assistants will no longer be state officials, but here they are now no longer doing jobs as state officials, but their number of state officials will be reduced by 96, the jobs they have done so far mean that these jobs no longer come by political decision but would be chosen by the basis of a public tender for 4 years. As for decentralisation and rationalisation of the state administration, the law stipulates that trusts in the affairs of the state administration office, means units of regional self-government or counties, meaning those bodies would be reduced by 20 means the number of state administration bodies from 52 to 32, means that the number would be reduced, only concerned for these poor counties as stated by counterpart Vlaovic, which, with those counties already 20% of the original funds are spent on salaries and by joining this number of officials, that figure would naturally go beyond the framework. The third goal that is to achieve is to digitise the state administration, so the digitisation of office operations would open up the possibility that all of our citizens in one place would be able to submit all of the requirements that, according to official duty without delay, would be delivered to the competent authorities and, of course, not to walk as is the rule from office to office, but to have everything in one place. So I would like to conclude that the law is a positive step towards improving the organisation of the work of the state administration, I repeat that by decentralisation of the state administration, it will draw closer to citizens who, of course, are the main users of state administration services. The digitisation of the state administration opens up the possibility of setting up individual structures, the establishment of state administration bodies as unique administrative places. Here's to all of this and for all of these reforms, I support this law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144685	Mr. Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144686	Thank you very much. Comrade Maximchuk, you said that this is depolitisation, rationalization, -tion, -tion, but there is one fact that you can't defend, which means that with your system of state administration, every minister has at least two, three state secretaries, which has been multiplied in these last 3 years, that Croatia has about 90 state secretaries at this moment, which cost us 18 million kuna annually, and that is something that is the fact that no decentralisation, depolitisation and rationalization of the administration with this law has been achieved but that this will lead to the further awakening of the administration because you will also assist ministers who have left with the minister, transferred to the directors and in no way free yourself from Sanader and the legacy of Sanader because this is his legacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144687	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144688	Dear Mrsic, 45 state secretaries are currently, reducing the number of assistants from 96 will certainly create the savings that are set out in this law and envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144689	Second replica, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maximchuk, I especially welcome the fact that the Law on the State Administration System gives rise to the professionalization of the state administration, to reduce the number of state officials. This solution, which the Government has now proposed, existed in 2010 and 2011, and aimed to ensure that the principles of administrative organisations in ministries and other central bodies, come from people who are professionals, people whose working life and work journey took place in the bodies of the state administration and why they have been educated, why they have made progress and why the highlight of their business career would be represented by the director of the state administration and thus be independent of the changes to the authorities that come after the parliamentary elections, therefore, I agree with you but it should... Isolate and emphasize, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144691	Thank you very much. Answer, please, ma'am. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144692	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, so that just like that, the work done by the state officials so far, means assistants, will now and will come naturally by political decision as it has been, will be done by professionals, will certainly be depolitised and will professionally carry out their work in the same bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144693	- Mrs. Crescent. Sunhead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members of Maximchuk, just last week, the government of the Republic of Croatia held a meeting in Zadar with mayors, mayors and commissioners, one of the topics was, in fact, the topic we are discussing today. In the offices of the state administration worked about 2800 people, at the level of the county around 2500, but trusting the affairs of the state administration's offices to the counties, for all the expected and important topics were discussed in Zadar, and it was, as it was said, perhaps the most concrete move to strengthen the role of Croatian counties and we must make it clear, the mayors were very open to discussing it with members of the government. Legal proposals in this way to take over quality preparation, of course to take over all these jobs, I think we'll achieve what we've talked about many times today in the debate, which is efficiency, simplicity and transparency, and that we actually serve the citizens what we need to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144695	Thank you very much. Answer, ma'am. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144696	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, that we will strengthen these counties and I am sure that all the counties of course with the Government of the Republic of Croatia will find the best solutions to really open the doors in all the counties both transparently and effectively, because now that you come into any body, then walk you don't know, from one office to another, here's precisely this strengthening means counties and strengthening this central body, people would come to one office, they would file requests for more jobs they needed, and it would be dealt with in one place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144697	Mr. Damir Mateljan will have his individual debate, please. For the second time, I must apologize to Mr. Matjana, Mr. Lucic, please, and I must apologize to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144698	Vice President, you don't have to apologize, all right? My colleagues Maksimchuk, I fully agree, we come from the counties of neighbouring, Požega-slavonian and Brod-Posavina and perhaps we in smaller areas see it better than some other large counties that just the county government or state administration that were next to each other, the people of that separation didn't actually understand what was more countyal, what was the state administration and this is the best way you said, they'll reunite, they'll come back as it was and it was for the benefit of the people but certainly also by looking at the welfare of this financial side. I cannot simply accept today the objections of individual MPs, says people are being hired, but I will not even talk about that time of the previous SDP government which has indeed employed everywhere. and that at the same time they neither took care of the cost nor of anything, but then. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] With this law, we will surely achieve what the citizens want.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144699	Thank you. Answer, ma'am. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144700	Thank you. Yes, dear fellow, here in the previous debates everyone said, people, our citizens didn't all recognize that it was essentially working, that the public administration offices were separated, they were usually in the same buildings, and then all the blame would be borne by the mayors and the county but here, I hope that this merger will achieve efficiency, speed up everything that has been waiting for so far and of course will result in savings from all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144701	Here you go, Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, just as there is a term of parafinding imposition and it refers to membership fees to certain associations that have public authority and to the famous flat-rate fee, there should also be a term of pseudoreform law because this law is one obvious example of a pseudoreform law. The public administration with local self-government, along with the pension and health system, is one of the key systems that requires reform, reform to make this system what it is and this bill so that it can be depolitised, decentralised and rationalised, however, this bill does not solve anything as well as a whole series of other legislative proposals relating to local self-government, to regional development, it also had a form, it had an ambition of reform, but essentially they were not reform laws. So the Law on Regional Development, on a new indexation that did not link the new indexation with the financial resources and the benefits, is also not a reform law such as the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, where today, after the law was passed, we have no idea at all what all the units of local self-government that are in the mountainous and mountainous areas and which are the benefits that this position is, is the same and the law, the Law on assisted areas and, of course, this Lex Sheriff, who is actually greater powers of the executive authority than the representative authorities, therefore, in relation to the citizens elected to the municipal or city council. So, first of all, the aim of this law is three things, depoliticalization, rationalization and decentralisation. Why will neither of these three goals be fulfilled? So why won't this law depolitize public administration? Something that has so far been, in some kind of autonomy towards the mayors, according to the county, according to county power, according to the county administration, will now be under the direct management of the mayor and the county. Such a new system will be equally depolitized as it is depolitised and everything else under county administration, so it will be equally depolitised health, secondary schooling, primary schooling, emergency assistance and all others, so the County Road Administration, because we all know that directors in these institutions are nothing but listeners to a certain political current that is in that county in power. So, all of us here have more or less experience working in local government and let's not lie, this law, this bill of law, in this way certainly won't depolitize public administration. Why won't this law decentralize public administration? The goal of every decentralisation is to keep the officials closer to the citizens. If you want officials to be closer to the citizens, then these officials should be city or municipal. I'm mayor, I'm sorry, I'm not mayor, I've been mayor since 2004, and so far I'm not really clear, I don't quite understand the meaning of county. If since 2004, therefore, which I have been in charge of since 2004, which I have been a parliamentary representative since 2011, it is not quite clear what the meaning of the county is, I don't know what it is to our citizens, our citizens, when they come to the county or any other institution, thinks they came to the municipality. So when he comes to state offices, it's like he's coming to the community. So, in this way, by descending, by lowering powers to the county level, we will not decentralize the public administration absolutely at all and, of course, decentralisation is not only a downsizing of powers but is also a downsizing of finances and this legislative proposal makes me afraid that these finances that are going to go down to the county level will not be enough not only for the functioning of the system but also for paying those tenants and employees who are now going to belong to the county itself. Why won't this be a rationalization of the system? Today, in the system of state administration, 2508 employees are employed by the tenant. So since 2004, only 2018, so only last year I had direct contact with the Office of State Administration, 2018. I am deeply convinced I may be rude, but I believe that even in the counties and in the better municipalities and cities there is sufficient capacity in the administration of these, these units of local and regional self-government that they therefore all work, all activities within the scope of the state administration are working with existing capacities. So it's not a surplus of 600 workers, I'm saying maybe that sounds rough, I think it's a surplus of all 2,508 government employees. And in the end, when you spoke to the esteemed secretary of state and colleagues from HDZ about how this law was discussed with the mayors and how the mayors of all political options were satisfied with this law, and then he would like to show you my mayor's letter from a few days ago, where he sent a letter to all the mayors and mayors asking them to make sure that the mayor asks the mayor not to hire new employees until the end of the year because he will transfer some of the tenants to municipalities and cities. So that mayor obviously didn't realize anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144703	Thank you, too. Mr. Djujic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144704	Thank you very much. You said that this is a pseudoreform law, and I fully agree with you, and I can't believe listening to my HDZ colleagues today saying that this is a law depolitizing public service by reducing the number of officials. And who's on top of those officials, HDZ, so when they came to power, they were supposed to replace the ministerial assistants with state secretaries and said they would. What did they do? They added state secretaries, detained ministerial assistants, and now after 3 years they think of something as a reduction. Laugh at your HDZ colleagues, this is not if it isn't for the depolitisation of the state administration. Because you current ministerial assistants turn into officials, because you can calm down your HDZ colleagues, I know they're a little nervous, I know they're a little nervous to sell us these balls of swans under some kind of depolitical story, and they're nervous about it because people with character show up, and these are all people with no character and okay. But you let me finish. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]] So, No, it's not thank you, so that's where they get me the time. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] So come on, take it easy on the HDZ. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] So now you're turning ministerial assistants into state officials who you've put in there by appointing to political office. [[Intruder: I would ask you Mr. Djujic not to...]] Thank you very much. There's no problem. There's no problem. [[Intruder: You have, you have a reminder Mr. Djujic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144705	You have a warning, no problem for you, but we'll record you anyway, and I'd also ask you not to mention non-existent animal organs. It's not because they're nonexistent, it's because it's a little bit of a place to express ourselves in that way. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144706	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, first of all, I'm sorry that my debate has pulled off such a controversy, which absolutely wasn't my goal, nor my point, of course you agree with me at the same club, and the point is that we agree on these views. The HDZ colleagues, therefore this debate was not malicious, so we are very different all together in local self-government, and we know well where it is politicized, where it is not politicized, I am deeply convinced, I don't know why you are not that this law will not change, it simply won't because it's not so well-conceived. If we want a different local self-government, then we have to be a lot braver and then we have to go into a total reform of local self-government that has a lot more segments than this law. Someone in this country needs to be braver and say we're going into territorial reconstruction, we're going to strengthen the municipalities, we're going to strengthen the cities, we're going to weaken the county, I think that's the only thing that can save this country as far as the local level is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144707	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Mrs Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, in your opinion, one of the prominent measures of this law that should lead to strengthening decentralisation, greater functionality, the operationality of the state administration, attaching it to the so-called shut-down of the state administration's office and all those detours and their partial work of transferring it to county, county administrations. This should happen according to the assessment of this law of 1 January 2020, we have had opportunities to read in the media in order to reach that goal, in order to transfer from part-time the work of the state administration offices to the counties will need to amend 75 laws, 9 regulations, 46 regulations and that Croatian taxpayers will cost 150 million kuna annually in 2020 in that year, respectively, for the dispatch of civil servants and subsistence in the offices of the state administration. And it's not a lot of pressure to say it's not a financial, no weather, no changes to these released 75 laws, 9 regulations, 46 regulations, so we've changed 30 laws here because of one man, Andrija Mikulić, and today we're going to have another one, so that saga isn't finished yet. And what Croatia and Croatian citizens will have from the fact that, we have amended more than 30 laws so that Andrija Mikulić will set up a chief state inspector that we will see what benefits the citizens will have from having the assembly exhausted by amending so many laws, so here we are also facing an amendment of 75 laws, 9 regulations, 46 regulations and all that costs in 2020. 150 million kuna. Now, I'm saying if it's going to lead to a set of goals all right. However, we already have a decentralised system such as that where the work of the state administration has been transferred to the county, it is the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb has been doing these jobs for years and what is now going to happen in other counties already exists in the practice of the City of Zagreb and in construction permits and in the part-round work in education and through, with many other elements of what is part of the work, the work of the state administration. For example, is this an effective, functional, productive, county or city administration where the county or the City of Zagreb with the status of the county has taken over the work of the state administration office and responded to the demands of the citizens in an adequate and professional way to judge for yourself. If not, we are learning the example of the City of Zagreb and let some things happen in other counties. I personally believe that the idea of the state administration's office as extended hands of the state in the counties for certain jobs should have been strengthened, strengthened, given greater powers, rather than overlapping their powers with the counties and being exhausted. Maybe it was supposed to go in the other direction, but I'm not an expert on this area there's a lot more colleagues here and amongst MPs who understand it much better than I do, but I'm looking at it more, more layishly, that this intensity and this idea of extended hands of state in certain counties and this territorial spread is a good idea. Why in practice she didn't live this life, maybe she should've worked here to remove some submersibles, to eliminate inefficiency, ineffectiveness, and maybe not go this way, but I say I leave it open. I'm not gonna say I wasn't supposed to get involved in that, but here I am just giving my own kind of, you know, kind of attitude. Let's go further, the second essential item of this law, while shutting down the state administration office, their accession to the counties, we have the abolition of ministerial assistants, the category of ministerial assistants as state officials and the return to the management director's system, as heads and key people in individual establishment units of ministers, ministries. There will be no more significant and significant savings, nor any excessive reorganisation of jobs. Why? Because nothing is abolished here de facto, here only one category of state officials means ministerial assistants will be translated into another category by state officials who will be directors, directors of the administration. That's what we already had. However, let us not forget that this government, or government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, has then continued with this practice and the government of Andrej Plenkovic is the first government in the history of the Republic of Croatia, probably the only model in Europe that has three political levels of decision-making or management. So during Jadranka Kosor, we had ministers, political ministers, and we had state secretaries, but we didn't have political assistant ministers. During the government of Zoran Milanovic, we had ministers, deputy ministers, ministerial assistants. The government abolished deputy ministers, meaning 20 of them, 20 deputy ministers to appoint just over 50 state secretaries to do so leaving a category of state officials who were ministerial assistants. According to some calculations, only State Secretary's salaries cost more than 10 million kuna a year, and we had this kind of parallel, a political line of governance in terms of assistant ministers and state secretaries who were de facto doing the same job. Now, I'll do it again. If the directors of the administration that will be elected in public tenders will be new persons, the biggest professionals who can contribute to better establishment and functioning of the system of state administration and ministries then I support it is the professionalisation of state administration. If the current political, party appointed ministerial assistants are to be translated into directors of the management that will be left in the work relationship system, and they have come politically appointed by government decisions then it is not a professionalisation of the state administration, then it is brutal not even perfidious but one of such shameful politicization of the state administration. Time will show, I'm not prejudicing anything. About this government, their laws will be spoken of by application and will speak of deeds. We can convince each other here now, no it won't be like that, we can say it's afraid it'll be like that, time will show. The application of the law will show whether this law has been passed because of the professionalisation or further politicisation of the state administration. And I'm ending up returning the revolving door, maybe not the most ideal approach, but fair enough, the minister comes along and brings along his closest associates who are with him during his term in office. That's what we had, that's what we know and what it is and how it ended up in courts and that these people were eventually kind of annulled. However, will this mean that with the existing people your ministers have in the cabinets, you will, with the existing people working in another form, will you hire additional people in the cabinets of ministers who will come by the principle of revolving the door, if that is what this is, the further waste of the ministries and the further waste of this government which I do not think is in favor of you. I think already and now it's actually this government has a record number of state officials. And I'll end up, when powers and part-time work are transferred from the state administration's office to the county, it needs to be really good, well prepared. Only in the field of education when enroling in high school, planning enrolment policies, when determining, establishing an appropriate form of education especially for children with difficulty in enrolment in primary and secondary schools, a great role, a crucial role in these very sensitive issues is precisely the administration of the state administration and there should be taken into account, regardless of what in the counties, education departments, people who know all these processes participate in them at some level, it is all one chain involving several stakeholders from local to national level, but they should be well prepared not to suffer children and their parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144709	Thank you. Mr. Maras has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144710	Thank you very much. Your fellow Glasovac mentioned the county is very clear why HDZ transfers these people from the state administration to the county level because if we divide 2,500 by 20 you get 120, 130 people, and that means in the next 10, 15 years the new 120, 130 you can hire. So, when you have the centre of the county, for example, in Virovitica, then you're an even bigger sheriff than you were yesterday if you can take another 100 people straight there without having to call Minister Kustević who did it until yesterday. So on that side, it's clear what HDZ's motivation has nothing to do with neither operationalisation nor efficiency, it's simply an urgency that in smaller environments, even more is controlled by the sheriff's type what's going on in that environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144711	Mrs. Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144712	Yeah, well, you guys think they're actually going to disband the state administration offices, give severances to existing employees to use our money or citizens' money to hire their new, new staff in the counties because of the increased volume of jobs. If that's the case, then it's actually this sad one, and then this is an extremely malice, malignancies law. But I wouldn't be surprised because they left, so they had ministers, so they brought in state secretaries left assistants, and now they're cutting off their assistants. You don't stop anything, you've burdened us for four years to pay both first and second and third, and now you only translate one of the political ones as professional.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144713	Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144714	My colleagues, Glasovac, this law should be called, all of them, but we don't give the county what HDZ was supposed to do, and it's not, and it's not, and it's decentralisation, abolishing the county and moving on to a new territorial structure, but what it's doing now, it's doing what we've been seeing in Zagreb for years now, where the mayoral administration is in the city's head, and we see how the mayor works with that administration and how that administration works with the citizens. So, the state administration that is in the City of Zagreb is completely in the power of Mayor Bandic and de facto he runs, not the state that should run the system of state administration and that will happen in all the counties and will again happen to us what was there in the '90s when it was when the counties decided on a lot of things, that will say building permit will be issued in the counties, but will decide the mayor who will put some solutions in the drawer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144715	Mrs. Voter's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144716	Ma, you're right there, I think Croatia is in terms of the strength of the Zagreb budget, powers and powers of a highly centralised country and the victim of actually one city, I think it's a fact and it's true. Now, this behaviour of the office of the state administration office by the City of Zagreb which has the status of the county is also, I do not see that there has been any decentralisation, I think it is a classic example of centralisation, centralisation of powers, centralization of power. And I hope it's not, I think we should give more power to the county if we already have them, but it's not a good abuse of power, it's not a good abuse of power, it's something we have to prevent, give authority, but look for responsibility. We see in Zagreb that he has powers, but no one can ask him for responsibility, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144717	Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144718	Thank you very much, Vice President. You said that to implement this law, you would need to change 75 laws, 9 regulations, and that it would cost 150 million kuna, and it has political will, it is not a problem because taxpayers would pay in the state budget, and here there was no political will to accept the proposal of the HSS Club to tax illegally acquired property. The reason for this should be to amend 15 laws and several regulations. Here you see when it is created through this law the possibility of increasing the income of the state then there is no political will to change 15 laws and to comply with the Taxation Act of illegally acquired property and it is obviously better to act that model, which the bailer is, and here when it comes to politicising the administration can be found 150 million kuna, and I believe it will need more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144719	Mrs. Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144720	A colleague of Vlaovic's that you are surprised, and he apologizes for not passing anything, so it doesn't matter what is proposed, but who is proposing. So you can see that they are also arguing with themselves, according to the assessment of the state of their law, the law amending this law replaces one or more state secretaries to state officials who, in accordance with the minister's findings, have been detained by auxiliary ministers as state officials who directly manage administrative organisations in the formation of the ministry, leading to the fact that the ministries currently manage three levels of government officials for which it is difficult to find a comparative example in another EU Member State. After four years, the Trnoroz woke up and saw that it was amazing what they had, like it's nowhere in Europe, and because it's their turn to translate these politically appointed assistants into some professional management directors and leave them in the system, is it as employees?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144721	Okay, thank you. Now it's Mr. Lenart's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144722	Thank you, dear Vice President. My fellow Glasovac your suspicions are justified, here I come from one of the poorest counties, where Mayor Ivo Žinić HDZ, who arrested one of his son as mayor in Glina, arrested the other in the prison system in Glina, and then Djurdzica Klancir wrote, sent the police not to write, so he also hired his daughter-in-law, founded a development agency that has more employees today than the entire county administration in 2005, that I am not talking about the number of employees in Sisak-Moslavina County in his term. So now that he's given the opportunity to do it with this part of the state administration, I'm getting angry about what's going to happen because unfortunately they're not doing anything except walking around in parties, events and dealing with who they're going to hire. Do they hire it in a nice way or racketeering I don't know, but there's a lot of talk going on around the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144723	Mrs. Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144724	A fellow Lenart, means that this mayor of yours will not be sheriff now, but as of January 1, 2020, he becomes Obersherif, and his county administration becomes a real political crowd, or if he wants to be nicer on French soufflé, it means there will be more new employment. And that's what we're going to bring under cover and desire and intensity to actually strengthen the counties, to decentralize them, to professionalize them, to lead to soufflé, political soufflé, HDZ soufflé, to most.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144725	Thank you very much, soufflé. Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144726	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Glasovac, you mentioned how it was actually forgiven for the year that we had to discuss so many laws here and were only adopted to form a new, therefore a new entire inspectorate and to actually arrest one, the only man. Well, you should have said that last year we spent so much time actually discussing what all agencies are actually going to be abolished, seduced, state institutions or other offices, all under cover that there will be huge savings, huge rationalization, actually huge savings, and of that the entire maneuver, of which, these savings are actually only one, the only number left, and that is j0. So, no savings whatsoever. It wasn't. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144727	Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144728	Not that there's no savings, but when we talk about these political entourages, they've taken us to the expense. And why did they take us to the expense? For the sake of, among other things, that incarceration of the political but also of their intra-party turmoil. So Mr. Mikulić did not become a state inspector just like that, we did not have to pass those laws in order to get rid of him from Zagreb's organisation, from the Zagreb Assembly. And all of this was exhausted by this Croatian Parliament and, of course, by the Croatian public. And that, all these turmoils of them, and battles, that they, and their court plots actually account is exposed to Croatian tax bonds and through our, our backs. That's what the whole tragedy is, what I have to do is get rid of little Andrija because it bothers me where I'm going to put him, I'm going to put him as chief state inspector, and that's why we're going to have to change 30 laws here instead of passing some laws that go in favour of Croatian citizens. We're solving internal issues. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144729	Time, time, time. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144730	Thank you very much. Comrade Glasovac, just to discuss your claim that this was the only government that had 3 levels of officials this one in its system of state administration, and then I wonder if you were deliberately forgetting it, whether you were being ignorant or not knowing that you were part of a government that inherited it means 2 levels, so she introduced what counterpart Bauk said and before establishing 3 levels, assistants, and you were one of those assistants now courageously 5 years later, find that this was the only government that had 3 levels because the deputies became state secretaries, and the assistants were the other assistants. You deliberately lie to people or think you're allowed to forget as well as your colleague Leonard that he was a state secretary and he even managed to forget that it was the way he was doing tourism back then in one HDZ government and now he's surprised at everything like he's never been anywhere, he's never seen anything, he's done anything. And you deliberately deceive people. [[Intruder: Time.]] You were a three-level government, an entire term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144731	Time, time. Mrs. Voter's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144732	I haven't forgotten that I've been in that government, and I'm on time, and you're arguing at my expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144733	I, I would beg you, Mrs. Voter, we will stop time and you can continue, but don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144734	Thank you very much. I did not forget my colleague, Boric, that I was part of a government and assistant of two ministers at the Ministry of Education, but I am proud of that part of my life and everything we have tried to do to bring order and work into that system. We're in the good part, and we've done some things, and we haven't arrived. I may have been a little wrong about this part here, but I was actually going to say that you're the only government with a record number of government officials and that those three levels we've had, at your three levels, are almost a sublime number. So that's almost double, let's say the 20 deputy ministers that you've abolished that we've had, you've replaced with 50 state secretaries. So, your level of Croatian taxpayers has hit the pocket twice as much as our level and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144735	Here, I gave you a little more time for interrupting. Let's move on, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that 60 and a few laws had to be changed in order for a certain person to be appointed to a function, and you forgot that 5 years before that, 60 and some other law had changed so that 20 and some other individuals would be appointed to some function, and we instead of talking today about whether the system works or doesn't work, we're hitting on ourselves like this. And when we talk about changing these 60 and some other laws, you know what year the State Inspectorate was founded, and you know that it was supported by the first SDP coalition government and the HDZ government, and then you did what you did. And I'll talk about some other things more in my individual debate.0 So, that you haven't changed in 2013. 60 and some other law to name 20 and some other person then we wouldn't have to change 60 and some other law if we were to name One person. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144737	Mrs. Voter's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144738	My colleague Shuker, everything I said here in an individual debate, I said under my full consciousness and a clear conscience the only mistake I made was when I said that for the entanglement of Andrija Mikulić, I had to change 30 laws, and I was wrong because it wasn't 30 but 57.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144739	Quiet, quiet, no please, please. Now it's Mr. Maras' turn. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Even under the impression of this replica of Mr. Shucker, where he is justified, that, due to the change of 20 laws five years ago, they must now employ 500 new people in the State Inspectorate and resolve Mikulić's status, I must begin to make a small remark and a secretary of the plenary session that you have not united these two laws. So this law that defines Mikulic's salary and this law on a new definition of state administration. Because that's basically what it is, it's a classic entanglement and care of those who, until yesterday, swore that it would be a state administration professional, that it would work the way it should work in every normal country, and today, today, we have a debate with a single amendment to the Law on State officials, which is that Mr. Mikulic defines the salary that will be in the rank of the minister. It's what's only interested in HDZ and that's what we only change in these laws. And I'm not surprised that Mr. Boric scratches where it it itches, when he tells his colleague that she was an assistant because he probably remembers his successful mandate as assistant to Mr. Calmeta when it leaks everywhere, the Fimi Media, the painting of the highway, etc., and then that, too, I understand that problem because it's hard to solve these memories and perhaps sleepless nights when the media and similar things were thought about. But what I can't accept is that here we are explained that it is essentially the professionalization of public administration, the transfer of 150 or ministerial assistants to the status of director forever, meaning retirement, the status of director with the same salaries and the same rights as they have today. Tell me State Secretary what professionalism is, what kind of experts are they? Well, they're government officials. You named them without a public competition. So these are government officials that we're going to translate tomorrow into directors and that no one can ever touch them in their seats again, and yesterday, on the 30th anniversary of HDZ, they were skating at the Lisinski Hall. So if we could simplify that a little bit, the reward for that clapping, the activation yesterday at the Lisinski Hall is basically going to get a lifetime state service, with the salary of the minister's rank. So we rewarded them, what professionalism it is, you'll be able to contact the secretary of state, and then you'll say what you have to say, don't shout out of the bench because it obviously bothers you what I said and what's true. Billy wasn't gonna get those people's unlimited life with the government that's going to leave in 1.5 years, but they're going to get a job up to retirement, with a salary that's identical to the one they have today. What kind of professionalism is this, what is it about honesty and justice, what is it about the quality of the work of these people? On the other hand, we are moving to the county level for just one single reason, that the mayors have 200 more people under control so that these HDZ sheriffs, in each county of 200 under control, so that these local sheriffs can control whether they have any more or any less votes in the elections, employ people and have an even greater influence than they have so far. So there's no concern about efficiency, there's no concern about meeting professional criteria, expertise, there's only concern that people get caught by those who, at the moment, decide to do it. And it should be opposed and immediately said in the beginning that these people you arrest today should not be cemented there forever, that this should be brought into question by the first possible next time, which means when the next elections come and when the new majority in the Croatian Parliament agree. So this is already the second attempt by HDZ, it's not now on their way to work, it's done in 2010 by the same idea, the same kind of change of law, identical, directors instead of assistants. And we all know who we were doing that most of these people, most of them those people were connected to HDZ, I know that because I saw it firsthand, and I believe many other colleagues who would be working by the ministries. And then they explained to people that when it was done it had something to do with them that somebody wanted to make it up to HDZ or that they were trying to do something against HDZ. No, we were just correcting and we're going to correct that kind of injustice that HDZ wants to do at the moment, which is to cement its 150 people in places that have high coefficients and that I think are very important to the public administration, but I can't handle this way as the HDZ solves. On the other hand, we saw the issue of State Secretarys getting rid of it instead of one deputy minister we got 3.4 State Secretary by ministry and here, that kind of awakening of the administration has been changed to lower levels. I am sorry what our countries are going in this direction, I am sorry what is probably and the reason why people leave Croatia because they see not what way this all works together and I am sorry that HDZ does not understand that people should respect the law and work in the interests of their country and the efficiency of work, the efficiency of the work of institutions in this country. Now I'm going to say one more thing, I'm using the opportunity of what Mr. Nekic is here, that it's a shame, that it's a shame what on my application for illegal work in the Croatian Parliament didn't come out of the inspection, that no inspection from the Ministry of Administration came out to determine what happened at all. That's embarrassing. So, they said they have too much to do and that they can't go out on the ground to establish that people, what can be very simply checked and on the footage of the session were doing over 40 hours in continuity, I'm talking about tenants in the Croatian Parliament, but they asked about those who are de facto state officials and who manage the entire system and who are basically responsible for not organising jobs in the Croatian Parliament. So this, all of this shows you how unfortunately the state administration works, that HDZ behaves as if everything was allowed, but fortunately, it was not because then if black swan syndrome had not happened in European elections, the black swan would not have brought HDZ the worst result in the last 29 years and HDZ would not have lost those elections. So people see it all and it's good to see it, and it's good to see who treats them and who takes care of people and who loves people and who deals with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And on that side, no black swan gentlemen from HDZ but a lot of Croatian voters who see the affairs and irregularities that you do as Government, and one of these things is certainly this law. Many who watch today's meeting are appalled by the HDZ suffering 150 to 200 of its officials in the state administration until retirement on high wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144741	The first replica of Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144742	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Maras, you said it was 1.5 years, that, but it's not 1.5 years, it's years and 3 months, so the election has to be, we have to disband by the end of next year, so when we add it up, it's years and 3 months, but it's less important. What I wanted to do in this replica, I wanted to point out the fact, this law refers to 92 assistants not being assistants, but what will be directors of new administrations will not be 92 will certainly be twice as many because in a certain way we need to and catch the people who are there and certainly will, they remain permanent and they will lead to the next dissatisfaction we have already had the opportunity to see. But maybe let's think about it, in 2010, HDZ did it for a reason that he was aware that in 2011, he was losing the election, maybe now he's aware of it and he's doing it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144743	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144744	Surely they are aware, surely, if they weren't aware until yesterday when they were blinded by certain things, the results of the election were sobered. And people just punish things that are illegal. For example, the Croatian Football Federation, 200,000 kunas have been given to people to sit on the Executive Board of the Croatian Football Union, what do you think the parties from which most of the people are from, whose 3 commissioners have received 200 000 kuna for the success of the national team in Russia, Malta is not as if they were throwing and giving assistance to Manjukic and society. Well, it's embarrassing behavior. So why don't they condemn here, the HDZ people, that behavior, why don't they come out and say no, those aren't our colleagues, why don't they kick them out of HDZ to show that they don't agree? Two hundred thousand kunas took people for what? For sitting at meetings at meetings of the HNS Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144745	I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm afraid I'm undermining. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144746	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you know what is unworthy of the presentation of this law, which is that HDZ colleagues say that this is a depolitisation of the state administration, and in fact our citizens, when they look at every day the haizeisation of the institutions of this country where the HDZ releases its paws on all the institutions in the country, from the HNS that you mentioned earlier, from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests which they have encountered recently, from the State Inspectorate that we are going to discuss behind this point, it is completely, citizens see that they are unworthy and that they are falsely saying that this is depoliticalisation and in practice they are acting according to that "I can do what I want" and HDZ one Croatia and HDZ, it's me, Croatia it's me. Now, that's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144747	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144748	Thank you very much. I would also like the Ministry of Administration to have certain supervision of the business and should have the business of the associations, and thus also the CNS to determine how the three HDZ chiefs got the £200,000 there and for which work was done in 2018. What job did they earn 200,000 nets for? Divide that by 12, that's 18,000 almost kuna, or 17,000 kuna a month, for what job? What were they doing there? How did their work contribute to success or what would have happened if the Croatian team hadn't entered the second round of competition or semifinals, perhaps they would have guaranteed their houses or something for failure? How this contributes to the HDZ HNS [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] That they pay them $200,000 a year? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144749	Third time, time. Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144750	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Maras, it's obvious that this is the way to control the government at all levels, have the greatest impact on all processes of governance, making a solution, or I don't know what, the witness is that and this united inspection, simply wants to set up its own people who, if some government comes, won't be able to remove a certain amount of time, there will be some obstructions, and then any government that comes in one term can't move anywhere because there's always some brakes. Unfortunately, HDZ says that if you are not with us, then you are against us, if you are against us, you will find it difficult to live in Croatia, you better go somewhere, not create a problem, and people have accepted it, which is why 350,000 people have gone. 350 gone, 350 blocked, 700,000 not to list all the difficulties that people live in, so only those who have HDZ's card live well and all of us take pictures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144751	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's scandalous that in this way under the company of efficiency and better work of the state administration, someone here wants to explain to us that in fact what's true, they're going to hire over a hundred of their people at places for the rest of their lives. Now who will be transferred from assistant to director, he is calm to the end, according to this law, for the rest of his career. Well, he doesn't have a problem with 67, 65, it's such a job that people can do 75 in that way and receive top salary for the job. So it's clear what HDZ wants to achieve here, but it's scandalous that it won't tell us openly, but they're still explaining to us that they're working as for our benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144753	And finally, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144754	Dear Representative Maras, HDZ and the SDP are accusing each other of more people, however, the truth is that they are both, that they are both, that they are both, that they are, that they are, that they are, and that they are also true, that you did not love them because you loved them out of your good feelings for them than you did only because you did so that you could be held in power, and in fact with that network of listeners you created a network of people who are actually your hostages and who depend on you. I think that both of you have reversed and ruined Croatia and the Croatian people at the moment I call for them to wake up from hypnosis and reject the dilemma of a false choice between Kolinda and Milanovic and to choose the only candidate who will actually fight for the majority in our society, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144755	Okay. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144756	Thank you very much. I'm glad you woke up from hypnosis after what, 5, 6 years when Palfi hypnotized you and now free, the detached shackles of Vladimir Palfi you went into battle for the Croatian people. Imagine how much you would have done if Vladimira Palfi hadn't tied you up? Well, in Croatia, it would have been beautiful. In Croatia, flowers would have flourished if Vladimira Palfi hadn't shackled Ivan Pernar. So now you are free, so you have all the energy, all the leprosy, after Palfi has pushed you for five years. And more than that. [[Intruder: And more.]] So, in front of you, when you've been able to do so much with Palfi's chains, you'll probably do a lot more without them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144757	Okay, so he introduced himself, just to remind you that hypnosis is a serious method and that you're playing with those terms a little bit, and I wouldn't play with those terms if I were you, so maybe I'd pick some other ones, but let's move on. I would like to welcome the directors and directors of the cultural and presidential institutions and the presidents of the cultural associations from the area of the town of Križevci who today with us and thank you for sharing with us this morning, thank you very much and one round of applause please. Let's move on, now it's Mr. Sinisha Varga who I'm sure won't talk about hypnosis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I would start with one assumption that I absolutely support any option that takes over the executive power that has the right to regulate its own way of ruling in the next, in the term of office for which it has assumed responsibility. What he could then do right now, and he's in disdain within what time this government, at which point of its term of office, introduces such a change. Such a change should then be introduced in the first six months and then no longer be mentioned, and then I appeal also to the Ministry of Administration to create a legal framework where all such legal proposals for what my colleague Glasovac mentioned are united, a whole tract of legal regulations that must continue to be implemented and changed in order to introduce this change. I believe that it is not technically that this area is much better arranged that it is the authority that assumes the executive function when it wants to edit the way of forming civil servants and subsistence that it can do it in a simpler way than the one that we are doing today and what is just waiting for us in the next year. So in my debate, I would like to de facto mention one, one of my personal experiences regarding this issue that we are discussing today. In 2002, I was elected state official assistant health minister's assistant public tender. So what was said then was what were then state officials, but I was elected to that position in a public tender, therefore it is possible that today is not foreseen here by this legislative proposal or at all that function is being abolished. When I talk about my experience as assistant minister then I was 36 years old and I have to admit that this work 7 days in the morning until dark was very demanding, but all the while with the awareness that there was a certain time course and that the decisions I make or decisions I am in charge of fighting with the state administration, in the battle with the opponents, and all I have to do then, especially, I have to stress then started informing the health system in the Republic of Croatia which has brought all the benefits that we enjoy today amongst ourselves and the electronic recipe that we in Europe are 7 in terms of information in the health system, and the great opponents were there then. The state service, our civil servants and officials in the ministry themselves, I must admit they don't see it as their job to push and implement reforms. State officials and tenants are here to advise, and these are official and titles are de facto advisory where they advise what can, what can't be done, and the advice is the most common reason why something can't be carried out which is the wish of state officials. This legislative proposal reduces the number of state officials, replaces assistants with directors of the administration, and in 2012, when I was acting as chief secretary of the Ministry of Health, I was then directors of the administration. I went to the management directors to see which projects they were running, which were the outcome of these projects, how they acted on them, and I realized de facto that these directors of these administrations were, precisely that they were government officials who were giving advice, advice to former ministers and state secretaries as much as they could and could not be implemented there. So instead of being part of the solution, they became an integral part of the problem. There has been a change in the structure and the institution of the assistant minister has returned, I would personally like it to be in a public competition and all elected, without being appointed, but the very institution of short-termness and timing de facto revolving the status of assistant minister is something that should be absolutely maintained. By reading the law of Article 46(2), I cannot read whether it is an undetermined or certain employment of the state or director of the administration, whether they are on those on a specific or undefined basis because they are called upon by the Law on civil servants. Therefore, if it is a permanent position, then I personally believe that it is being downgraded, or on the scale of the problem, which is the ineffectiveness of the state administration, the system of civil servants and substitutes does not, unfortunately, give us the factor that should be in the implementation of something that we discussed yesterday on the Committee on European Affairs on the National Reform Programme, the national reform programme has very decident project objectives that must be implemented, I cannot talk about all the resolutions, but what we also know from the European Commission report that the Ministry of Health is not implementing what is written in the National Reform Programme. It was not implemented in 20017, did not implement 2018, most likely there will be no results in 2019 because national reform programmes are not implemented. Who is directly in charge of implementing these reforms? Is that the state official, the minister, the secretary of state? It is, responsible, political responsibility. If I say it's the assistant minister's job... do not implement, I guarantee with my previous experience that directors of the administration will be factors that will even more hinder the implementation of these reforms than before because it has been such an institution previously seen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Again, I stress, I cannot generalise, I cannot speak about individuals either, and of course I cannot talk about all the authorities of the state administration, but in particular about implementing reforms in the Ministry of Health, they do not implement because such a structure is a state-run official and a tenant, and this requires a more extensive reform, and finally here I am stressing once again, every government has the right to establish its own behaviour as it deems most meaningful,... I prefer that this was done rather in the term of office, but I reiterate the need to preserve the principle, to know the shortness of the position, the more people in the ministry, and thus the national reform programme and all other reforms needed in the health system can be implemented more effectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144759	Thank you. Mr. Demetlik is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Varga, I cannot fully agree with your finding that any authority after each election can make its full structure. The aim of this law, as well as all those laws concerning the organisation of public administration, means from the state, county and local level at the level of municipalities and cities should be such that no matter who is in power to ensure the efficiency, rationality and rapid development of the economy. So I agree that the minister or secretary of state, however, all services below must be so organised that no change in government will occur. We have examples of when the SDP government, whose partners we were, in particular, agricultural land was taken up by municipalities and cities, the counties to the ministry again, came another government, changed. We have x examples like that where to this day we're wandering from election to election, so I think this is exactly the kind of law that we should all be in order to get to public administration that's going to be more efficient and rational.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144761	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144762	Here, fellow I can agree with you, yesterday when we discussed Minister Maric himself about tax reform, one general winged is that who is the best tax law is the one who gets older. So stability, perseverance and traceability is something that is constantly sought in everything and in the administrations, so someone mentioned the Medvescak municipality in an earlier debate... Yes, I know a colleague next to me, so it's something that people get used to and know is something that brings stability and in their own life, and it's something everyone expects, but we also know that we have a very large number of problems, I would personally like to see the deep reform of civil servants and deputies, vice president of the government and before as an opposition, parliamentary representative, Minister Dalic advocated a new fashion, I believe there can be a lot of heads on the pile and make a system that is better sustainable, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144763	Thank you very much. No more replicas, Mr. Miranda Mrsic will have his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So today's law that is before us is a law that I have already said is a law that has the title "All Lady, County doesn't give" and an attempt to decentralize the state administration in a way that what was in the coverage of the state, will eventually lead to what we had in the 1990s, and this is an obstruction in the area of the county when we talk about the flow of decisions and when we talk about the efficiency of the state administration, because the authorities of the state administration need to grow into a body of supervision, legal treatment and increasingly help citizens to achieve their rights and the way the HDZ works, to turn it into such a type of state administration with a drop to the level of county de fact that it will be as in the city of Zagreb where we see that the system of state administration is completely under control of the mayor or not be under control of the mayor. The current territorial structure of Croatia is completely inadequate and expensive and irrational, resulting in political interest, in the first row of HDZ, because it ensures in the counties the place where its personnel are caught and the insurance that the voting machine goes to elections and votes for HDZ, not the public interest that we should be in first place when we decide what kind of territorial structure in Croatia we need. Croatia must change, the territorial structure must change, the counties should be abolished, the regions should move on, because this is the only way for Croatia to move on. In this way as Croatia is now going to stay there, while standing at the beginning of Europe. You see what Poland has done, Poland has reduced the number of its dukeships, so what might have been ours at the county level, and this has led to the greater usability of EU funds and to the growth of Poland, which is the economy itself, but also as regards the efficiency of the state administration itself. So instead of the current 20 counties, 127 cities, 429 municipalities of Croatia should be organised in 5-7 regions, about 200 cities and municipalities. Because in 576 units of local self-government there are almost 70,000 employees of it in municipal companies is 26,000, in the users of state budget money which the municipalities and local administration only distributes, we talk about schools, kindergartens, etc. The total annual cost amounts to as much as 25 billion kunas, of which the salaries, fees, fees and fees to the council had 6.5 billion kuna. And that's what's important is to disburse the price of the state, that the state would be cheaper then, that the wages are lower and that the salaries are higher, that our workers remain and our citizens stay in Croatia, not to go to Ireland or Germany. Let me just point out that '90s. Before the independence of Croatia, Croatia had only 102 municipalities, today there are more than 400 of them. In this law other than what is written that the state administration will decentralize in the way that it is transferred to the county is one part that is quite dubious and smells of political corruption within the system itself. And this is the transfer of ministerial assistants to directors of state administrations, so to the directors of the ministry's administration, which will lead to the capture of personnel now placed by HDZ in assistant posts. Locally, the ministries operate in a way that is determined by law and Article 47, which states that the system will be introduced by people who will come with a minister based on an ad and a minister's decision that they will be subject to the Labour Act, that they will be there while the minister is there, so while the ruling majority is in the assembly, doubt that there will be any further politicisation of the system itself and I'm not sure that it will be in the Constitutional Court as you know the revolving door has been abolished by the Constitutional Court and this, regardless of what the alleging some kind of competition and finging that it is about to come and go with the Minister, I'm not sure how it will withstand the test of constitutionality or equality that all in the state system have equal conditions and employment and work, and quite certain that advertising in the newspaper and decision of the minister that it will be the final hope that it will be carried out in the way that it should be carried out. Apparently that the revolving door that was tried at the time of the left, the left SDP government did not withstand the constitutionality test, HDZ was fierce against it, HDZ is here and from this pay phone fiercely criticised it and now suddenly when it is in power then it returns, it returns. And it returns with one fixed path in a way that there will be some kind of contest, these people will be at a certain time while the minister is there, when the minister goes away then they will go with him. Doubt that the HDZ clearly wants to catch even more of its personnel there, which will then likely remain in certain administrations as therefore state officials, or that it will turn into official calls. I'm not sure that this will withstand the constitutionality test, and we will certainly send this law to the Constitutional Court, so let the Constitutional Court determine around this HDZ revolving door, as it was determined according to that revolving door we had at the time of the SDP government. That this is politically intrinsically speaking and an article of the law that says that up to 3 every minister can take an assistant, an advisor, let's call these people whatever we want but the Prime Minister and President can 4. Why exactly four, why don't we five, why don't we six, why don't we seven? So the law makes it very clear which law is written for. It's written for the President of Parliament and the Prime Minister because they can get 4, 4 and persons while everyone else can get to 3. In what way it is determined and how that quota is determined, neither is it written in the reasoning of the law, nor is it seen in the reasoning of the law. The real reform would be a reform that would go towards full depoliticalisation of the administration, to know which level the authorities change to, change certain positions and people come new to those positions. What HDZ is doing now is just identifying the situation and preparing to lose power because these people will leave within the ministries to then wait when HDZ will return to power. This is a law that goes towards HDZ fully politicising the state administration, not to be depolitised and certainly by those promises that Prime Minister Plenkovic made in his credible campaign through this law does not have a "v" of credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144765	Before the replica, there's a break for, no, I mean so-called. a pause of position. The first replica of Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144766	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Mrsic, reforms do not live in either the Ban Courts or come here or in certain ministries. If this government, together with the Ministry of Administration, had wanted to make a reform, then a similar or different law would have come at the beginning of the mandate and not come to an end. So it's absolutely clear why it comes at the end. It comes at the end only to entangle as many people as permanently. It's already been seen before, it's already been done once, by which surprise, but if there was really an idea to make a reform then it would have been a much stronger message, a much stronger law, and it would have been in the first year of office, not at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144767	Here's your answer, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144768	Dear counterpart Mrak Taritas, exactly if the law were at the beginning of the mandate, then they would take off their hat and say HDZ was preparing for power and has prepared a good decentralisation of Croatia. The decentralisation everyone is talking about, but no one, no one can see it, no one dares to spend it until the end, nor does the government of the SDP in which I was, but the HDZ government of the Croatian 2/3 of the period of independence and apparently that the motto is to keep the county as a pupil of our eye, we do not give the county all the other lady, because the counties are ours, we have our own personnel who are there as they change power or go there when we change power and we add now another part that is tied up with the people who come with the ministers who are going to choose with some strange public tenders where apparently the HDZ membership card will be the main monet that will open all the doors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144769	Thank you. Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144770	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in your discussion, you mentioned that Croatia needs a territorial reconstruction and a regional one, but you must have thought of local self-government. I will agree in this section with you anyway, we need a smaller number of counties, but regionalisation should be carried out in a way that respects certain historical, geographical, geographical elements that exist in Croatia. And as for the territorial reconstruction of local self-government, I'm going to say that Croatia has certainly too many units of local self-government in this form, but I'm not saying for the removal of small municipalities, but I am for the fact that these small municipalities no longer serve in love, that we don't have a professional apparatus in them because looking at people means a lot that they have their own community, it certainly means a lot to them, but we don't need a professional chief, we don't need a professional headmaster, but we need to go to one reunion. more local units. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144771	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144772	A respected colleague of the Vesligaj, therefore, should not go with fire and sword and now by mathematics this so great of the municipality, so much that the municipality may be, if it is smaller then it can't, you should see historical, economic cost-effectiveness, you should see what and how, because if one Denmark that had over 1,000 municipalities a year ago has now landed on about 130 to 150 municipalities, it means you can, but you don't need to go with fire and sword, but you need to start. The HDZ obviously doesn't want that, because if it wanted to, the territorial reconstruction would have been long ago Croatia. But what I'm saying all the time, this kind of Croatia is a brake to the development of Croatia, and that's what you can see. It's obvious that the county's places where we spend money are completely unnecessary, and in order to get that money back to the economy to raise our salaries, it costs us 25 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144773	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] An individual debate was registered by a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so the first contact of citizens and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia with the state is the state administration. And if we looked at it and thought about it that way then probably our discussions today wouldn't go into one total polarization, we're right about what we did, and what you did is wrong and vice versa. But probably based on the government's draft law, if the government is considering that certain functions that are now in the state offices of the administrations deployed by the counties should be brought down to the level of the counties and probably large cities to ask ourselves how it will be organised and how it will be implemented financially, whether it will be direct funds, direct revenues from the counties and cities that will take over these functions or be something else. So that's the topic we should be discussing if it's really true in our interest for this state administration to really be at the service of our citizens and entrepreneurs. Because look, unfortunately in this high house, we very often discuss the diametric opposite of what we're saying ourselves, depending on the point of the agenda. Let's say we had this yesterday, about bureaucratic problems that citizens and entrepreneurs face, then the story would be one, today the story is quite different. But to take the order, therefore, when we talk about certain jobs being transferred to the county and cities, there may be Zagreb County in a specific position because Zagreb County has its head office exteriorally. So while the other counties have the county centre there are basically dispersable. So that's one of the problems to talk about. But I would have left nine years ago. In 2010, an economic recovery programme was adopted and was defined in it, then everyone welcomed it, all the left and right sides of opposition and economics, all to go into one deprofessionalisation of the state administration, that ministerial assistants would turn into professionals who would be professional professionals doing their job and it wasn't just one step, the second step was to make public business directors in the majority ownership of the state or where the state had and minority property chosen through a public tender. Also directors, actually members of the Supervisory Board. It was pathetic of the packages so the administration should be different. In 2012, there was a change and one of the first statements of today's candidate for president of the state, and then the Prime Minister was me politically won the election and I have the right to choose who I want to lead the country with and answer for the state. It's his legitimate political right, he said it, we objected here, we disagreed, but he did it in the act. And it should be respected, he took political responsibility, as he ended up in the next election we saw it. Perhaps it would have been better if the then government had thought about how to improve the system. Because when someone says, it doesn't matter what a public tender is again a political appointment, look at every public tender, every participant of that public tender has the right to complain. As long as the appointment is made, no one has the right to complain. And no one has said that here today in the debate, because when you hold a public tender for something, then whoever participates in that public competition can complain. So we went back to what we had before with one supplement, which is that both the Prime Minister and the Minister have the right to choose their closest associates, practically who will be with them while they are in power, and when they leave the government they will no longer be. Today it's a disaster, and today it's not acceptable. Today, however, we also heard a story about the need to reduce the number of counties and the number of cities. Many of those who debated today were once in governments and had this suggestion, make it, but very interesting that when they're in government when they're in a position to do something then there's no such story. And that's what's not good. And then again, I have to go back to that first sentence of mys whether it is really in our interest for the state administration to be at the service of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen, or whether it is in our interest to engage politically who offers a smarter solution. Because if it is really in our interest to raise this state of administration to a higher level, then today we should think about how much the state administration has been informing us, how connected it is, how eliminated we have been that Croatian citizens must collect 10 certificates for when they want to do something and walk from door to door, then they would talk about it today if we were really in the interest of reforming the state administration. But we didn't talk about it today. Is the Croatian state administration so informed and interlinked that the exchange of all this data can go on, whether people working in the state administration are so educated and whether we invest in their education that they are not only the ones who will give, but also the service to the citizens. There are people who are ignorant who don't have that much information, but when it comes to a counter of state administration to help him out what and how it should be done to get to what his goal is and what he would want to do. Now that's the state administration we should talk about in the Croatian Parliament, purely on human level, and then on a political level. But also talk about such officers, not talking about how they must be paid is not over either. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, you tomorrow when you transfer this official from the state administration to the county's authority, his colleague who works at the county office for the economy, let's say he has a 30% salary. It's something that just can't happen. We in this country end up having to solve the pay problem. From the smallest municipality to the largest ministry, according to the same criteria, jobs must be paid. Because without that, we're not keeping quality and educated people in the state administration. Without quality and educated people in the state administration, we can't expect quality. And we can talk about it as much as we want and bring here laws on reducing bureaucratic barriers to this, that, if you don't have people who can put it on the ground when someone submits it all falls into the water. Take just one example, there was a lot of pomp about these taxi services, etc., apply you to open a company for 2-3 minutes, but later on, that you might start working from the Ministry of Justice to get two confirmations, one about impunity, one to conduct the procedure with you, until it is sent in writing, so by the time it returns, it is procedure of 15, 20 or a month. Or a building permit, in one city it should wait 15, 20 or a month, and in the other it should wait 1, 1.5 years. It's something that just doesn't have to happen, can't happen. And that's what we were supposed to discuss today and discuss with the secretary of state how they predicted it and how they envisioned it to settle the sublaws. I was reading this law looking at it that way, because if we don't look at it that way, if we're going to be colleagues Mrak Taritaš or colleagues Mrsic and I are going to throw what was in their government, what was when it was in the government while I was the machine we're not going to do anything constructive, but if we're going to discuss certain provisions that are in this law, then we're going to be responsible as people, no matter what political options we're talking about and the basis of our life and professional experience what we should do in the state administration to make it more efficient. However, we unfortunately did not have such a discussion today. Or, say, Article 47, I think that we need to answer our first question here, whether the Minister and the Prime Minister have the right to 2.3 of the closest associates to bring them with them and that, after the term of office, they are leaving, they are not both left and right, because both will be in this situation. No, we don't talk that way. And I'm going to finish the State Inspectorate, an institution that worked. But someone didn't pass it, they changed 70 laws to name 20 people, and today we've been telling all morning that 70 laws have changed because of one man, and we haven't said whether this very important institution of state administration works or doesn't work. We were unable to control the undeclared facilities until today to amend this State Inspectorate Act whether they are staying guests or not. You've had your chance, I'm afraid I haven't seen anything but you like to talk a lot and do a little work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144775	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker. And he would ask his colleagues not to speak to their colleagues as they argue, to be parliamentary. We have replicas, dear colleague Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144776	You were just saying that some MPs said that local and regional self-government should be abolished, but you can see for yourself that this comes from those people who were never at the head of regional or local self-government, so I also agree with your finding that this is not good. Exactly the model that has been for regional and local self-government in this past time has shown its power and strength where we have just, especially small regional self-government, been built, given the foundation and entry of Croatia into the EU so many resources and those who were a little resourceful, who were wise indeed could have made in their midst very much. The abolition of local self-government would lead to mass, so in the region as proposed, this is the best model, and therefore, here are congratulations and colleagues to Mark Vedligaj of SDP who has a small municipality and who said not to be abolished, and his colleague Mrsic says should be abolished, he needs mass And mass is a disaster. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144777	I thank my colleague Lucic. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144778	Thank you very much. A fellow Lucic, this territorial structure, so to speak, the Republic of Croatia has its own historical background. Those who have not actively participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia and do not know why some decisions have been made I do not think they need to hold an hour of history today, and whether a single unit of local self-government is successful, the failure depends solely on the leader. He won't hire more people than he needs, many small units of local self-government will withdraw a lot of funds because they know what to do and how to do. So everything depends solely on people, and that's the same story when we talk about government. Therefore, anyone who believes that a territorial reshuffle of the Republic of Croatia should say so in the election campaign and be one of his main electoral slogans, and we will see how it goes in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144779	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144780	When you have no arguments, you usually refer to the former government, but to the SDP government. Here I was offered the replica of your position on Article 47, which has 8 or 10, 12 items, which is the reintroduction of the revolving door into our system. HDZ was fierce against it, he criticized the former government here in the assembly we listened to everything and everything, the Constitutional Court eventually ruled out what he had ruled and now you're doing the same thing, you're returning it again, you've just put up a contest. So there's no difference between what was in the SDP period and this right now. The only difference is that some kind of contest has been launched, again decided by the minister, and not only that, but you've put the Prime Minister in charge of having four, and the ministers up to three, so you did the same thing, which is the credibility you've been talking about all along?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144781	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144782	Dear Mrs., you know that what you were just talking about was a crumb on the ice dream that you changed, so this wasn't so controversial, this was totally on the margins of what you did, which is that you called a bunch of your assistants political, because that's how you wanted to politically control the administration, and that was problematic, this was just like this. Secondly, I would suggest that you read article 47, paragraph 3, so you will see that you are mistaken for saying something is named, but I have said rhetorically let's all here say whether we believe that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, should have his three, four men in the cabinet as the closest associates, and let's agree on that by political consensus, not by political bickering, and there's no need for someone to throw it out like this anyway, all of us who were ministers know that you need one or two people with whom you can, not work some, but simply who will be your closest associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144783	Thank you, thank you, fellow Shuker. The next replica is a respected colleague of Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned a fellow Shuker during your debate about equating personal incomes from the municipality to the highest ministry level, so you expressed yourself, now I hope you think it's equalising wages by classes or by, by types of work, not equalizing absolutely well, businesses, because then you would be, then you would call yourself Mao Schuker, not Ivo Shuker, right? So one thing, which is, my comment is to equalise it, I think we should also reform the valorisation system of success at work, and introduce stimulation to those workers in civil servants and tenants who give more than others, and thus stimulate better and better quality work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144785	I thank my colleague, Vargo. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144786	Thank you very much. Comrade Varga, you know that I may be the greatest supporter of the Payments Law in this House by which only work is paid, not formational membership. And when I was talking about it, then I thought only in that way, but look, some secretary or some kind of reference, I don't want to offend anyone, there's a town you've got right now with a middle expert. They pay six, seven thousand kuna, and at the same time in the state administration there are five thousand kunas, and now that man from the state administration or the lady, will come to work in that City or County, and now his colleague in the next office has two thousand kunas more salary, but if we bring a system of pay classes where we will pay for work, not hate and where we will be able to punish those who don't work, then I think there's no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just look, in 2010, this law was practically before the adoption, some of them were here leaving the Party because this law does not go into procedure, but here it has been nine years, unfortunately we have not moved away, and we need to be aware that this is the only way we can solve the award problem in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144787	Thank you. I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144788	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you spoke of organising a local administration, which I can agree with you that the law, article, item, I don't want to talk about it, but the organization is certainly not easy. If we're looking, and I'm looking from my perspective, from a craftsman, so far we've had a lot of problems, probably even today, we have a lot in local communities when you're looking for some confirmations, some kind of solutions that craftsmen or entrepreneurs need, it's a procedure, it's waiting, one man is working, and up there, is that in the MUP, is that in the municipality, is fifty of them sitting down, how do we organize to get it faster, to be more efficient, I'm talking from a micro-level, you're looking at the macro level that's organized in the state, but in the small environment it's not. I know it's hard, I'm not against doing it on some kind of law or something, but it's very important how effective it is to be and solve it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144789	Thank you, thank you, fellow Misic. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144790	Thank you very much. My colleague Misic, most of these certificates you're talking about, the issue of state services, the very little issue of local, and I, when I talked about these certificates and when I talked about informing the state administration, then I thought that you, for those needs, wouldn't need a ic at all, but where you filed that request to get something, this exactly signed protocol will require everything from you, and then we'll be able to say that we have an efficient administration. As long as we do not do so, as we depend on the will of the individual, and therefore we have introduced the OIB, precisely because we can withdraw all data from the central register and that Croatian citizens are not walking in the halls, but where they are asking for some kind of confirmation to submit, and this Service obtains all the other information, and the citizen or entrepreneur gets home a written solution from the Service that needs to be issued to him. So that's exactly the kind of management that little Hansel imagines.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144791	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Next debate, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144792	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am looking at this Law, so the State Administration System Act as another law that should be part of a decentralisation policy of this government. So decentralisation as a concept is often used in campaigns, we're all the principle of decentralisation, we need to decentralize everything, we need to lower it to the lower levels, but in practice it's not being implemented, it's just a concept, and the decentralisation is, the truth is, it should be one process that can honestly be carried out in the mandate of a government, and it's really one of the policies that should be found, let's just say the principle consensus, of changing territorial structure, it shouldn't run from it, it's nowhere written as some kind of sacred letter. I said before that I wasn't up for the removal of the municipalities, but I'm not in the sense that we have, we have one structure that refers to, say, the municipalities that already existed before. The municipalities are actually local communities, but I'm not even for municipalities like they are now that every municipality has a professional chief, deputy, that there's a management department and then in that management department that you have to have a headmaster, you have to have an employee communal director, you have to have accounting. So that's not what I'm for. I'm definitely here for one business rationalization and one merger of those jobs that's already going on in the field somewhere. For example, agricultural monks, whom a lot of local self-government units have hired together. Therefore, it should certainly go to smaller municipalities that they cannot have the possibility of neither this professional chief nor that they have professionals within the management department, but they should be together. Of course, financial autonomy should be defined when we talk about decentralisation and certainly there should be some administrative capacity that every unit of local, local self-government should have. Is that what we have in Croatia? I don't think we have, and why we don't, so we don't have that because we don't approach it strategically, because we don't approach it planically, but we have one intuitive approach all the time, let's do something to make it happen, and then it turns out that we're wandering around looking for some kind of institutional solution that maybe part of the local units will be satisfied with that, and most unfortunately they're suffering from it by citizens. So we're all gonna say we're wandering. We had in that system a very decentralised approach to local self-government, at least in the last phase where it was strong, extremely strong financial autonomy up to about 70, 80% of income remained at local level, even too, because decentralisation also has its own certain ceilings. Then we're in the '90s. by creating an independent Croatian state made a centralized system of local self-government, centralized I will say a lot in one financial sense, even though then we have local self-government delivery and fragmented, because very new local units were founded, they are established in the end line of the county. At least once again, the cities are actually the headquarters of former municipalities mostly, and the municipalities are former local communities. Then in 2000 we started with that process of primarily administrative decentralisation, it was initiated by the government of Ivica Racan who had never fully experienced precisely because I said that I found it difficult to implement this in the term of one government, even though here today is the county, those who took over those decentralised functions in the fields of education and health and large cities that remained with them. And now we come in 2013 when we should move towards a European local self-government, so according to europeanisation and unfortunately on that plan we have done almost nothing. Even though we have some good examples, we are even going there in '97 with Europeanization. the years when we ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government, even before some, I have mentioned here, before some Western countries of Great Britain, Belgium, Switzerland, France etc. And what is really the main point of this European Charter to local self-government, one concept that says, the concept of actually political decentralisation. So, decentralisation where local self-government is, I'm going to say counterweight to the central state. In Croatia, the counterweight has never become, but it is only a tool through which the central state seeks to achieve some of its interests. It has never experienced a subsidiarity that it says, of course, that local self-government should be as close to the citizens as possible and that decisions should be made at that level. I believe that in the future, however, this process must somehow run, because it is true that the good part of today's system in this form, which, with this number of employees, is a good part of asphyxiating certain, certain processes. We will have to turn to local self-government, which will mostly go after the participation of citizens, who will be, going to make it more functional, you will see in practice what will happen now. Many local units have achieved EU funds, so these projects will be implemented, but the sustainability issue of some of the projects obtained from EU funds will be realised. It's a question of children's kindergartens in smaller municipalities. It's actually going to become intolerable for them from a financial point of view. Only if we don't decide on a policy to provide them with more financial, larger finances for them, more financial resources. They depend again, of course, on the economy, on the economic cycles that we know they always have some kind of cyclical movement. One approach that we need on, about local self-government, as I said before and before the consensus requires a clear policy of decentralisation, the experience of the Western countries that have reduced that number of local units. It's a fact, it's a fact and they didn't do it for nothing and it's something that I'm sure of in the Republic of Croatia, it's not so important now whether something is going to be called a community, a local community or a local committee, I think it's extremely important that this local unit that's going to be in any form, and we need a transformation I'll honestly tell you at all levels, from regional self-government, local and local self-government to which we haven't really defined ourselves and where a total nightmare rules. Some local units have established, say, their local committees, others have absolutely not established them, and then you have some legal status, some have no legal status, and they are some kind of first form of government that citizens come in contact with, and certainly should also include them with one of the legal solutions within the Law on Local Self-Government that I'm not talking about here, but I'm focusing on this because this is kind of the closest thing to me, but without it, I think that Croatia as one country that should go forward that needs a modern, strong local self-government because it's proven, we don't need to go, this one we don't need to invent something special, because public investment, big public investment will require some kind of merger, it's going to require a certain circulation, and it's inevitable. Here it is in this direction I'm actually going to finish this debate, with a lot of old people in this law, I don't think the citizens are that much, they haven't even figured out exactly what it is exactly, I haven't been going in about these things now, about the assistant ministers and changing all that. I can see that's coming down, and I'm going to say the shootings, but it's the structure of a functional, strong self-government because local self-government is the first one that citizens will address at all times. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144793	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. We have replicas, dear colleague Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vesligaj himself was the head of the municipality that built 1,500 jobs in 2012 through 2015, and had investments of around 2 billion kuna. Before that in that system we were the last of the last, we had a GDP of 18%, now the top ten by a lot of economic indicators that are relevant and measurable. So I want to make it very clear here that I will never raise my hand to abolish and a small community that is self-sustainable. The second thing is this part of what you said, hiring people in these small municipalities, and then doping, which jobs dotage from the state. We can talk about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144795	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144796	Thank you very much. Look, you have the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which tells you that citizens have the right to decide on the establishment of government, so at a certain level. So much of this aspect would be very difficult to go break and go on to eliminate the municipalities themselves. However, if you ask citizens if there are still several employees in the municipality who have a salary of 12,000 kuna, that you have a head who has 8,000 kuna, that you have several more employees in that municipality who have a salary between I don't know 6 and 7,000 kuna and that you are now spending 20% of how lawfully you are allowed to function in that municipality, and let's just say the price of kindergarten is far higher than any average that exists in that municipality, you can't build a municipal infrastructure, then I'm sure that citizens will be in favour of going to a full deprofessionalization of these functions. in smaller municipalities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144797	Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144798	Thank you very much. I honestly expected the debate today to follow up on a part of what you were saying, but in fact that we will only and most of all fight with arguments about Article 33, 34 and Article 66, 67, because it simply opens up the possibility of these decentralised things, so that many administrative matters from the level of the ministry descend to the local level. And we just, instead of discussing it today, I tried to do it in my own individual words, we're fighting over something that's already spilled milk a long time ago. And today, on the basis of this Article 33, 34 and Article 66, 67, we could open up the issue of both the functioning of municipalities and cities and counties. Because look if we bring these functions down to the county level, then these counties get things meaning and citizens will see in them some kind of substance that offers some quality and better service. But informing the state administration is a prerequisite for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144799	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144800	Thank you. Well, I think there are a number of laws I know from practice where you have overlaps often between the municipal or city level, county and all the way to the state. Look around the county, I used to and said in the replica that this is too many counties, or too many units of regional self-government, even though Croatia is in some kind of limbo we actually have a regional, regional self-government. We haven't exactly figured out what we want. I'm going to do it again, okay, let's get rid of the county, even though the termological du will remain the county, if something will be called the region, but I think it's certainly too many of them, for a country that has less than 4 million inhabitants today, some historical units, historical regions, determine, of course, by the number of inhabitants that this region and other parameters will have, of course, respecting certain historical geographical reasons, which is why some smaller regions should survive, whether in the form of these regions or in some modern European micro regions, which are also good examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144801	Thank you. The next replica is a respected colleague of Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144802	Thank you. Here you mentioned the word subsidiarity during your debate of fellow Vesligaj and this prompted me to think how the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines that primary health care takes place at the level of cities and municipalities, and hospitals for the level of regional administration and self-government. In reality, we have a situation that regional self-government or county determines the issue of health homes which is primary health care and now the question is, I then asked these administrative experts at the Faculty of Law, so they explained to me that it was a conflict between subsidiarity and competence. So, when we don't have enough competences, then we stop applying the subsidiarity rule, and then there's the level of cities, the municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, the high variety of competences and what can be brought down to the level and there should be criteria to clearly measure who can implement what administrative measures at the level.../incomprehensible/... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144803	I thank my colleague, Vargo. Come in, Mr. Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144804	So here's what you mentioned about this health care issue, so you had a few other important things that I think should be in, in the power of cities, let's say that. The cities are actually the centers of the former municipalities and I say those municipalities that I mentioned earlier have developed in a good part in a come-on communal sense, but you are left with education, health institutions, tax administration, state geodetic administration, police stations, right in the centres, right in the cities, so in the centers of the former municipalities, and I think you should go after one functional, strengthening, financial strengthening of even larger cities, which is even partially achieved now through this Law on the financing of local self-government units, so that you can just assume these certain functions in which certainly the primary health care which is here I will say that there is one large space for progress, even a number of cities among which my city of Pregrad also has for this primary health care and health care work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144805	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. Next debate, respected counterpart Miradno Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144806	Dear Mr. Vice President, very shortly at the end of today, my colleague Shucker scored in a way that we should have agreed on this law, we should have agreed on a law like we should have agreed on all the other laws before, but obviously we didn't agree because if we had agreed then this law would have seemed different. There are some things in the state that need to be agreed on by agreement, and apparently it's still not time for both opposition and ruling to settle some things. One of these issues is the issue of the county and it is absolutely certain that Croatia has too many counties, quite certain that the counties are a limiting factor in the development of Croatia, it is seen and this will come clearly when these things will have to be resolved. Countys or regions are something Croatia should have because of the way it works and the organisation of the state, but in any case 20 counties in Croatia are too much and it is definitely a ballast that burdens the economy, burdens the citizens and in some ways makes it impossible for us to have higher salaries in Croatia than we should have. The state needs to be cheap, the state needs to be cheaper, and one of the roads is exactly that. At this point, we're over-extracting funds for the county, and they're not giving citizens what service they are, who are supposed to be. They act as a flow water heater, as much as funds from the state comes in, then deploys to local self-government, something remains for some function at the county level, but citizens don't feel the county as their own. Because despite the fact that it has been almost 30 years since the introduction of counties in Croatia. Minister Kustević was pompously announcing that this law would introduce itself, lead to depoliticalisation and rationalisation of the state administration, but according to the final version of this law, I definitely don't think there will be any of it. HDZ attacked the revolving door, and here's another thing that we're saying is that we need to agree on, attack the revolving door, it was a good idea for the ministers to come and go people, HDZ was fiercely against it in the debate, and now all of a sudden it's going back. Why, then, when that was the case, it wasn't on HDZ's side that was discussed differently than it was. These people will come to the ministries, they'll come to the council, they'll come to the prime minister, I wonder why people won't come to the president or president of the state because they don't mention it as a possibility to be there. This law does not provide for depolitisation or professionalisation of the administration because here it is contrary to the announcements, it is not prescribed which is a limited number of state secretaries that can have ministries, so it is said to be one or more, so it can be 1, 2, 3, 5, 10 as long as it takes the minister. On the other hand, it is clear that Croatia needs a cheaper state, so it needs a small and efficient public administration that will not serve to imprison the like. Once again, the proposed law builds up a huge state apparatus. As long as we're going to seriously reduce the number of counties, cities and municipalities we can't talk about an effective state. As long as we don't go into serious reorganisation, Croatia will choke with arrests and privileges, and that's what I've been saying all along in my discussion, Croatia needs a new local self-government, the state must be cheaper and it must not be an ATM machine to draw votes for the elections, but this law also shows this because there is nothing in this law that will lead to people who are depolitised in the state administration doing the work that is being paid, and that means that the state apparatus must be in the service of citizens. Like all of this, what HDZ has been doing so far, this law serves to secure electoral votes, to ensure voters and that the counties continue to be bassions in which HDZ will engulf its personnel during the time they are in power, but also after it comes down from power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144807	Thank you, dear fellow Mrsic. Final word on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144808	Thank you very much. I am pleased to hear that the territorial structure provides votes to some kind of political option, no, the vote is by Croatian gunmen who definitely or support something or do not support it. However, I will repeat what I said several times today, I expected the debate on Article 33, 35, 66, 67, that clearly everyone here, regardless of what political options we are from, from which part of Croatia we come, shows what we want and that we want the county to look like tomorrow, which is what bigger cities should do, in fact big cities, 30 of them and what the municipalities should be doing and that we are having this debate in this home today, believe that we would come to a very, very high degree and consensus, a high degree of consent, but I am frantic about this story of the number of counties and cities. While the SDP and others are in opposition, it is always talking about reducing the number of counties, the number of cities and municipalities, as soon as they are in power, it is a taboo topic that is not discussed. So you could suggest a territorial structure, a new one in the Republic of Croatia, all of which could have changed from 2000 to 2015, as you took a billion kuna and a logical thing by tax reforming the units of local self-government and a logical thing that citizens would not reward and become a bonus. I have made it clear today as to the revolving door that obviously from the current government proposal and what was proposed before, something that people who are headed by the state, so ministers, president, vice-president of the government, feel like they need to have, and now I don't understand if the SDP ministers were fighting very hard for it while they were in power, that now the apriors are against it when they're not in power. So if I think it's something good while I'm a minister, then I can't be against it when tomorrow someone else, from another political post, is acting on that duty. I said as far as paying classes are concerned, whichever political option supports them, proposes to this House, I will support them, because, because I consider it to be the only fair way and model of rewarding in the state administration. And why did I mention wages? So why do we all stare at the fact that wages in local self-government units are much higher than in the state administration? And now we should, certain jobs should be brought down to local self-government units, we have two practically identical jobs, one is local self-government so far, it has a salary of, say, 7000 kuna, it comes from the state administration, it has a salary of 5000 kuna. Well, that's the topic that we were supposed to talk about today, not whether something or not needs to be lifted. Let's take a chance on something so if it doesn't work, let's change it and not apriorius something's wrong just because HDZ suggested it. That's why we don't even have a public administration reform, so we haven't been able to do a decentralisation either, so we haven't been able to bring in certain taxes that would strengthen local self-government units precisely because we're looking at the bewitched depending on whether we're in power or we're in opposition. So this bill offers a new step towards depoliticalisation and professionalisation of state administration, offers a new step to bring the state administration closer to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I sincerely hope that this is the first step towards when citizens of the Republic of Croatia or entrepreneurs will come to the Office of State Administration, ask for some solution, and they will submit a request and that all accompanying documents and certificates will be obtained by official means, online lines with other state services and that the applicant will receive a solution within 15 or a month. Now that's the state administration that I sincerely hope for, and which HDZ advocates to be, and not that citizens have to go to a hundred doors to get one certificate, it's a state administration that we simply don't want. And one more thing, when we talk about the state administration, the state clerk has about eight and a half thousand. Public services are somewhere around 180,000. State officials need to be counted by members of the MUP, members of the military, judicial police, members of customs and members of the tax administration who are practically prescribed in terms of their jobs and these many civil servants, there are around 8500, 9,000 of them, that's the number that we break but public services about, and that's what needs to be decentralised, in fact, education is decentralised towards local and regional self-government units, one part of health care is 180 000 practically employees, and that's what we need to talk about, and that's what makes the budget cost of 28 billion kuna, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144809	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Final word on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Mr. Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to use this final word of my own, and given that the vast majority of MPs who have asked some questions or commented on the law itself have no, so I will not even answer those questions, I would like to use it to thank all of you who have participated in your constructive proposals in this debate. So, once this law and the law that follows behind is actually one package of this reform, it is only then waiting for the right job and that means in the second half of 2019 that all these laws that have been mentioned here today, of course and sublegal acts, should be implemented new competitions for new directors of the administration, it is necessary to sign agreements with the counties or mayors in which all the things I spoke about today will be defined to the end. So I'm sure after this summer break we'll come to this high house with this whole package of laws and this whole reform will come to life, which means from 1. 1. 2020. Well, here's another thanks to you, I've stayed in debt, and there's one piece of esteemed representative, there's 45 state secretaries in the ministries, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144811	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for the final word. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on this point when the conditions are met. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 617. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, counterpart Nikola Grmoi, SDP Representatives' Club, HDZ Representatives' Club, HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I'd like the Secretary of State of the Department of Administration to give us an indication of the amendments submitted. It is the first amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Here you go, colleague Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144813	Excuse me. I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I welcome all present MPs and MPs. The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 17 shall be adopted in part in the amended form. The amendment shall be adopted in an amended form in order to ensure the nomotechnical consistency and terminology of other provisions of the final draft law but without intervention on material legal terms, since the objective and purpose of the amendment in question as well as its justification are fully supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144814	Thank you. A statement from respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144815	Thank you very much, Vice President. So we accept the proposal as outlined by the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144816	Thank you. We accept the amendment as amended. We are moving to the Second Amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144817	The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144818	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the Third Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144819	The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 32 shall be accepted in part in the amended form with the same explanation as that of Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144820	Thank you. Dear colleague Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144821	Thank you very much. We accept the proposal as stated by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144822	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144823	Vice-President, I apologize, but I really didn't realize, usually when the amendment is accepted in a changed form, it is read in what form it is accepted to know about the text. I didn't hear the secretary of state say in what form the amended amendment was accepted. If I'm wrong, if I'm wrong, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144824	You're right, colleague, I'm asking the Secretary of State to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144825	I apologize, so I said in my explanation that we accept the meaning of the harmonisation and the terminology that we have aligned with the law, but I can read if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144826	Please read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144827	So the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 17 reads, now I'm talking about the first. In Article 17(2), a new indent 3 is added, which reads: ‘- evaluation of the effectiveness of the laws, regulations and other acts of the Government’. The amendment in the amended form reads: ‘Article 17(2) adds a new subparagraph of 3 which reads as follows: ‘the monitoring of the effectiveness of the implementation of the law, regulations and other acts of government, so far subparagraphs 3 and 4 becomes subparagraphs 4 and 5’ and as regards the amendment means the number, in Article 32 it is a little longer, and it reads: ‘Article 32(1) adds a new paragraph 2 which reads: State officials may file a submission requesting an opinion for the effectiveness of the application of the law and other rules on the work of the State administration.’. Therefore, the amendment is accepted by the argument that I have already mentioned, and in the amended form, it reads: ‘Article 32(3) behind the word ‘state administration business’ adds the words ‘including the concepts of ineffectiveness in the application of the law and other regulations or ineffectiveness in the work of the body of the state administration’.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144828	Thank you. We are moving to the Fourth Amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144829	Thank you. So the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144830	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. We're moving on to the Fifth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144831	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The amendment cannot be accepted in view of the fact that the setting up of closer conditions for the appointment of management civil servants, which includes, with the necessary working experience and the appropriate degree of education, are not subject to the law on the system of state administration but to the rules governing the official system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144832	Thank you. Dear colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144833	Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, is not prohibited and this is the law to regulate what is proposed, and it is proposed to prescribe that the work of administrative organisations in the composition and it is therefore proposed to prescribe that the work of management organisations in the composition of the ministries is handled by civil servants who have previously carried out in the public service for at least 10 years if the special law is not different, and then the special law you have mentioned may be different but should not be different, so the intensity of this amendment, as I said in the case of the law, is that it prevents the possible conversion of current assistants of ministers who are officials and that you say political persons, therefore, is being depolitised, into officials, which would turn politicians into officials, and which would instead be depolitised, repolitise the state service. That's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144834	Thank you. We move to the sixth amendment of the Association of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144835	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted, namely it is not a revolving door as it says in the amendment but rather a completely new system that is not similar to that mentioned and cannot be accepted because it is not properly explained, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144836	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144837	Dear Secretary, that this is the revolving door that you have attacked so much because everything is the same except that you have added the competition and this competition will be announced and whoever chooses, is re-elected by the minister, and on the other hand you have defined that among those people who leave and come with the minister should be between 1 and 3 but see the devil, for the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister can and for the 4th, why shouldn't it take 5, 6, 10, as long as it takes? Obviously, with this, you admitted that our intensity when we were together with the ministers in the cabinets came from people who worked with them for their term of office was a good move that you were attacking and that your credibility is seen through this amendment that there is no such credibility at all. You're doing the same thing here, and I'm not sure this will pass in the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court has already brought that down, and we're going to put this in the Constitutional Court to see if this goes through. On the other hand, you interfere in the same cabinet, you have civil servants in which the Civil Service Act applies, you have a minister to whom the State Officials Act applies, and now you have a third group of people to whom the Labour Act applies. And what about when you give the contract to three months? Or the 6th month. or at 3 years, the minister goes away, will they then be interrupted, will not be interrupted, therefore it is quite unclear and what you just wanted to continue, what we have started but now only with the competition to avoid, that the law goes back to the Constitutional Court but the law will go back to the Constitutional Court because the Constitutional Court will believe and bring this down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144838	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Mrssic: Yes.]] We're moving on to the seventh amendment of the esteemed colleague, Nikola Grumoje, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144839	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted, the amendment cannot be accepted as the provisions of Article 64 are satisfied. The final proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration does not contribute to the same material and legal and nomotechnical terms and does not reduce the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration by such a bill or article as we have proposed, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144840	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144841	Therefore, according to this proposed article in 64, the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration in the supervision of other ministries would be reduced and the space for political will would be opened, we have the situation that the Ministry of Administration, for example, failed to prevent the violation of the law and the Constitution when our Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric passed the rule, so much I would say is invisible in modern democratic Europe after the collapse of the communist system because it has denied, restricting the freedom of private expression to all employees if they do not seek official consent. This represents not only a violation of the law but a violation of the Constitution, meaning an infringement of Article 127. KZ's over six months ago. diplomat Sablak, chief state attorney Jelinić filed a criminal complaint against the minister, I am informed, and here we must inform our colleagues that the DORH again and in this case refuses to request a hearing by the applicant of a criminal application and once again the State's Attorney's office has exceeded the legal deadline of 6 months. to make a decision on a criminal application submitted by the Government, which is now not a candidate but a new Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, means by making such a regulation. This example is an additional confirmation of the need to maintain the wider political and professional responsibility of the Ministry of Administration in the adoption of the rules to other ministries as provided for in Article 40. Law on civil servants. So we have a situation that the Ministry of Administration has done the job for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for the minister who broke both the Constitution and the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144842	Are you asking for a vote? ... Thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We are moving on to the eighth amendment of the SDP Representatives' Club, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144843	Thank you. So the amendment is not accepted. The amendment cannot be accepted because, in our court, it is not duly justified and, in addition, such a proposal for a law has enabled faster depoliticalisation to be implemented immediately and rationalisation or reduction of the number of government officials by 96, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144844	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144845	As we've already said, rationalizing isn't that you're someone who did one job as an official to do the same job as an officer, it's not rationalization, it's a man who stays working where he worked. Our amendment went as well as the first amendment in order to avoid the repolitisation of the state administration in a way that current assistants who are officials become officials and that this provision on officials headed by management organisations in the form of the ministry has been applied since the next elections, so on from some so-called. zero point or new beginnings of the situation. But let's caricate now. The intensity of this amendment was that the current assistant ministers in this best government of all time were protected from the shift because if they were ministerial servants, if they were going to come to their posts, you would have to resolve them and I don't believe that someone came to the government after two and a half years to go to his post, so I'm sorry that you didn't see that desire of the current government's continuity and to help the officials you yourself appointed as assistant minister and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144846	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144847	Final proposal of the Law on the State Administration System, second reading, P.Z. Number 617. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Nikola Grmoi, SDP Representatives' Club, HDZ Representatives' Club, HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So let's go, the first club of HDZ representatives has been accepted in a changed form. The second has been adopted by the Legislative Committee. Third HDZ Representatives Club accepted in amended form. Fourth Legislative Committee adopted. The fifth club of SDP representatives has not been accepted, so we must vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The club of representatives of the HSS and Democrats is the Sixth Amendment, also not accepted, so we must vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 7, MP Nikola Grmoy, also not accepted, should be voted on. Please, let's vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the last Club of Representatives of the SDP that's the eighth amendment, it's not accepted, so we have to vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. I would like to stress that Article 252 does not apply. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the State Administration System. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 76 votes to pass the State Administration System Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144848	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, second reading, P.Z. No. 618 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the motionary, the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration, Mr. Darko Nekic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144849	Thank you. So before you is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. The proposal was adopted in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament on 11 April 2019, and on this basis this final draft law on amendments and additions was drawn up. The final draft of the law proposes that officials, within the meaning of this law, be established, therefore, by the Chief State Inspector and the Chief Fire Commander, be the heads of the new authorities of the State Administration, the State Inspectorate and the Croatian Fire Department, established as central state offices under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration. It is important to note that, when it comes to the State Inspectorate, which started on 1 April of this year in accordance with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, that a large number of inspections operations have been carried out in different central authorities of the state administration are now in one place. This final proposal also proposes to align with the Proposal for a State Administration System Act and to delete the current position of ministerial assistants, and the current name of the directors of state administrations is replaced by the name of the principal directors of state administrations, state offices and state directors. It is also proposed to comply with the Law on Courts and to delete the names and corresponding coefficients for the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia since the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts entered into force on 1 January 2019 and put out of force Article 36. The law on courts, which abolished the position of the Registrar of the Court, is now being carried out by the Director of the Judicial Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144850	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nejdić. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144851	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am interested in how you came to the coefficient for the main state inspector in the amount of 6.21 bearing in mind that the coefficient for the minister is 6.42, bearing in mind that the coefficient of the Deputy Prime Minister is 7.14, and making sure that the Chief State Inspector has around 1,500 employees at the moment is directly responsible for his work, so it was somehow expected that the coefficient would be between the prime minister, between the deputy prime minister, so I am interested in the exact coefficient of 6.21, which you managed to choose that coefficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144852	Thank you. State Secretary Nekic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144853	So when we determined the coefficient for the Chief State Inspector, we kept an eye on the complexity of the affairs that the State Inspectorate is taking over. So, since he took over all those inspections that I was talking about in the previous reading, because when the law was on the first reading, we think that the coefficient means it's work-friendly, job-sized, complex business and certainly the responsibility of the Chief State Inspector.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144854	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144855	Dear Secretary of State, here's an answer to a very simple question. Will Mr. Mikulić as chief state inspector, therefore, also those leaders of the central sports office, public procurement, Croatians outside the country, renovation and housing will have at their disposal except for the very high salaries of the driver 24 per day and the car? So, in this very clear statement, that by listing these state officials in this group they will have first on so-called other benefits these are only one that are most written, and that means that they will also have the right to have a car and a driver 24 hours a day along with the previous salary. Thank you very much, just answer me yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144856	Thank you. State Secretary Nekic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144857	So, I can't answer you with yes or no because it's not the subject of this law, it's the subject of the government's decision. So, which and what rights and obligations a single official will have means is determined by that government decision, I am currently unable to prejudge what will stand in the government's decision and what will this one have to say the privileges of a certain official.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144858	Thank you for your response. The next replica is a respected colleague of Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144859	Thank you. According to our earlier discussion on HZZO, I have eight assistant directors, and I believe that the position that needs to be depolitised and if we already have the position of the political director and deputy director who are then determined by the coefficients that are determined here by ranking between government secretary states and parliament, etc., the assistants for my concept should be highly professionalised, but ultimately I urge HZZO to move them as an extra budget fund to the state and professionalise them, because when banks from other insurance companies say that the HZZO director has about 11, 12, 13,000 kunas, and manages 23 billion kunas, they are then talking about extremely small incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144860	I thank my colleague, Vargo. Thank you very much. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144861	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. As the State Secretary pointed out in the opening statement, the second reading of the Amendment Law and the additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials is a second reading. It is interesting and important to point out that amendments to the Law on the formation and detour of the Ministry and other central bodies have been established by a new body of the state administration, which is the State Inspectorate, which is also established as a central state office and which is the administrative chief state inspector who is now a state official. Following this proposal, the main state inspector is proposed to determine the official as well as the state's secret note, the coefficient of the billing of the pay itself is also determined. The rest of these amendments and the additions are the removal of a provision laying down the names of the salary accounting coefficient for the Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate and the establishment and part-round of the Ministry relating to the Croatian Fire Department where this proposal proposes that the Chief Fire Commander be identified as an officer and the same is proposed to determine the pay coefficient of 5.70. The difference between two readings has been added in Article 1 of the new paragraph 4 which deletes the name of the Supreme Court secretary. It is important to stress that these coefficients are harmonised and these two new ones become state officials. The HDZ Club will support these changes and additions, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144862	Thank you, colleague Bacic. Next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144863	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague. Before us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, which follows as a consequence of the fact that we have the Chief Fire Commander and that we have the Chief State Inspector, therefore the coefficients related to the Chief State Inspector in the amount of 6,21, the Chief Fire Commander in the amount of 5,70 are introduced. So when it was decided to be the State Inspectorate, then, among other things, the law was in two readings in this House and since 1 April of this year, we have the State Inspectorate. Of course, the debate on this inspectorate has sparked on several occasions I would say a lot of interest between all of us for the simple reason that the State Inspectorate is being reintroduced and for the reason that 57 laws that have been changed more or less so far are still missing some laws where someone in the vault has forgotten. We had the State Inspectorate who was decided to abolish, the inspections to go to the level of individual ministries, then in the debate I said that it was not good to solve the mess with a new mess. Today we have a State Inspectorate in approximately 1,500 people, announcing that we should be employed, but what really are a few things. This is not hypocritical but the state's chief inspector at this time has the biggest portfolio in his authority, not only has there in the central body but there are also a series of inspections that are at the local level, a very sensitive portfolio that must be extremely professional, it must be in a way that can be consulted and equally so that it can act on the ground and the chief state inspector in terms of its responsibility for its work corresponds to the prime minister and what I have said indeed and in the replica state secretary, this coefficient of 6,21 actually speaks to the fact that it would not yet fully understand the role and importance of this chief state inspector and that its coefficient should have come between the coefficient of one minister and the vice-president of the government, that I do not yet say that he is directly relevant to the Prime Minister and his role and the importance should now be significantly greater than it is seen from this coefficient, so that I may have a sense ofdeception , that this state inspector would not yet be known to be in terms with regard to the importance of theother , but the fact that in which weare , infact , infact , infact , infact , infact , infact , infact , infact , infact , that thiscase , in order to thefact , in order that I do notnecessarily , and in order to the otherstate, What would be good, and I really take this opportunity when it comes to inspectorate, would be minimal to expect that inspectorate to work and, when it comes to the field, it works even less on the ground. I had the opportunity to see all together not so long ago when there was a request from the minister who was in charge of the construction area, related to the bridges in Zagreb where it happened during the reconstruction of the hole in the sidewalk, well that no one was killed, when the state inspector told that same minister, because his responsibilities were then building inspectors, about two, when it came to order, would be examined, so here we are really coming to the fact that we had to make sure that the same place at the State Inspectorate didn't put everything and everything, but had to be taken care of only one process, but we have what we have. I am deeply hoping for the safety of this country's legal system that the State Inspectorate will at least work by the end of the year, but I'm afraid it won't be so. So this law has really a couple of articles, so the articles are that when you exempt the last one, it has 3 articles, it defines what the salaries of these people are, but what they will always cause in a certain way is the debate, which is this State Inspectorate. If it was decided to go into this together, then it would have to be prepared much earlier in quality. It couldn't be brought to the situation that we're seeing today, so it's secured space, all the people haven't moved there yet, the chief state inspector still doesn't know who his people are, he got from the material, so he got from the car just what some ministries managed to give him, and they still haven't even got the laws stored in a way that he can function, and to the ground and how it's going to work on the ground we haven't even come to yet. And indeed, I repeat, if such a great work was to be done, if it was to be given to the importance, then this coefficient actually points to the fact that on the one hand it satisfies the form, but on the other hand it does not satisfy the content. This, of course, goes into the sin of the Ministry of Administration, but it goes into the sin of everything else if it was intended to be so, then it should have been seen and what is the meaning of this chief state inspector, and not in the way that someone has a desire, that someone wanted to play and be the chief state inspector so that he could somehow share twos with individual ministers to tell them that they don't know what to do, but really go to the favourite man he worked with, and that's Mr. Bandic. We at the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144864	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144865	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, this law could call as opposed to the one where we said it was, we suggested that it be called, all of which we don't give to the county, this law could call HDZ acquittal, because the announced abolition of the ministerial assistant's duties will not lead to the fact that only one politician, the minister, will continue to exist in the ministries as political appointed persons or officials. According to that law, which we have already discussed, the ministry may have one or more State Secretarys, and they are planned to be abolished, although it is possible to be state secretaries as well, and so far practice has shown that the ministries are generally opting for more than one State Secretary, although they should be a substitute for the abolished post of deputy minister, so one deputy by minister or by the ministry. Today, the secretary of state said that we have 45 state secretaries, so annually we set aside about 9 million kunas for them, and despite all the announcements about rationalisation that could be kept silent in Plenkovic's campaign to get a mandate in the assembly, none of this rationalisation was seen either in this previous law or in this law. The replacement of ministerial assistants to directors as officials selected in a public tender that is set for the most senior management officers so that, in addition to the professional conditions, a conversation and an interview in 4 eyes with a minister or a person appointed by him does not mean that directors will be professionals and persons deprived of the policy that has set them up, let alone that such trust will be enjoyed after the change of government. The HDZ is returning to Sanader's model which proved not to be effective because then the directors of the state administration were appointed according to political function, political power, and did not justify the trust of the new furniture that came to power, and it will happen again because HDZ will not be in power and it will happen again that the furniture that comes after the current HDZ furniture will not have confidence in the directors of the administration that they are apolitical and that these are people who guard the function of the system and who keep the system functioning impeccable, regardless of who is in power and that the shift of power goes without, without major earthquakes. It's something that has long been determined in the Western world, in the West already knows who the civil servants are protected, there aren't many of them, they're the ones who are there to ensure the transfer of power and to ensure that the government works well. Look at Austria, look at Germany, but unfortunately neither this law is up, nor indicated that it is heading towards that path, and that means to ensure one level of civil servants being touched, regardless of who is in power and who is chosen by the criteria that are criteria outside, outside of politics. I would like to remind you that the HDZ in its state administration campaign has already abolished the deputy and assistant ministers' functions once, and this has led to the inflation of the secretary of state who at one point in history has 60 now had 45 of them, but there will probably be another one, so I expect that there will be around 50 state secretaries. It will clearly be on the side of the criticism of the left centre government which reset the entire system of state administration in such a way that it abolished the state secretaries and returned the deputy and assistant ministers, and turned the directors back into officials, while they are currently parallelizing the functions of the assistant minister and secretary of state, so that at this point HDZ is holding on to the budget nodes somewhere around 150 officials and if they swore to rationalise the systems themselves. And what they're proposing right now is definitely not going to lead to the depoliticalization of the state administration. The very idea of depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the state administration is certainly to be welcomed, but its implementation depends on whether it represents a real or qualitative shift or a mere dissemination of political personnel, which in the event of changes of government will cause new legal intervention and replacement of one into quotes of professionals, others. Under this law, the political functions of ministerial assistants who are state officials appointed by the government on a proposal by the ministers are abolished, they have numerous privileges, paid apartment if they are outside of Zagreb, official cell phone, official journals and some of them and the official driver, but I will mention here Article 45 of the Law that we have already discussed, which in its part introduced yet another state officials, and these are state secretaries of the central state office. So, we've brought in another new official who I'm very interested in, how many new officials are going to have coefficients here now we're already for the state, chief state inspector mentioned that it's going to be 6,21 I'm very interested in how much it's going to be in the central state sports office, public procurement, Croats out of country, rebuilding housing, I'm interested in how many coefficients they're going to be. So, what will be their salary? I note that by introducing these categories into the law they also have the right to benefits that go with state officials, which means car, driver, 24-hour car, maybe cards and everything else that goes with it. It is said in this law, in the light of the motion itself, that the administration will be rationalised and that the number of people who are politically appointed will be reduced. Today we have about 90 assistants and ministers, many of them are very nervous now, which is how they will continue with their careers when the law passes, because they thought in peace to do another two years in their seats, but here the HDZ obviously wants to take care of them and take care of them at the director's office. They say in HDZ that the election of directors should not be influenced by a minister in the ministry where they were elected, so who else will believe it will be so. It's just one floscule that will try to defend the fact that it's indefensible, which means that directors of the administration are appointed by their abilities as professional careers, and not because they were ministerial assistants, I'll be very interested when the law is applied to how many ministerial assistants they'll suddenly become directors of the administration. When this law is passed, their fate will depend on political will, but it is certainly certain that some will be able to carry out the mandate by the end because it will be personnel that will be extremely useful to individual ministries, I say it will be interesting to see how many of the 90 assistant ministers will be appointed director of the administration. This law is yet another thing to be passed, and that is that there is the salary of the Chief State Inspector will be in the coefficient of 6.21. I note that the salary of the chief state inspector was 5.27 before the break-up. The difference is somewhere around 3500 kuna, his salary net if we take that in Zagreb and with all the benefits was about 15 thousand kuna, and Mr. Mikulić as chief state inspector will have about 18,500 kuna pay, which is not small. The explanation is that there are a large number of people and a large number of big jobs and tasks, I note that it is the same size of people, the same size of tasks was then in 2013 when we abolished the State Inspectorate and I see no reason why it is not a coefficient of 5.27 as it has been before, but probably the reason for Mr Mikulić to be a part of the fact that he is leaving the post of president of the Zagreb HDZ organisation as he is speculating in the media, but we will see it there. Mikulić in the inspectorate, someone else at the Croatian Water Institute, someone third as director and secretary of state and Plenkovic will settle his internal wars on the coat of arms of Croatian citizens and on the back of the Croatian State budget. Because the state is the HDZ's mother, and all the other stepmothers, and we've said more than once that the State Inspectorate is going to create one great mastodont of about 1,800 people, which means that instead of burning up the administration, we're already hearing that new employment is needed, but not the inspector, but the administration, apparently about 200 administrative employees of new ones inside the inspectorates, which means that instead of burning up the state, we're also buying this bill, so this is, by giving Mr. Mikulic 6,21 coefficients, 18,500 kuna net wages, we're not going to solve the main, main remark of the employers, and that's because of the lack of a single inspector, at the same time there's been 10 different inspections that didn't happen, let someone show me the employer that there were so many inspections. The state inspectorate is formed, he is now in the INA building and what we only see is that the furniture that could still be used to buy new furniture, that the chief state inspector will have a driver 24 hours a day, that he will probably have a grand office up on the top of the building and that nothing that has been declared that the State Inspectorate for unification will be, that it will be more efficient and it will work better, that we still don't see it, it's been six months now, I don't believe that the State Inspectorate will work before the next year, people are in places and where they have been and so far, but what was important is that there, buy new furniture and thus show that the State Inspectorate is functioning. What will certainly be that the state inspector will have a very high salary and that is 18 000 reasons to be obedient and faithful to Plenkovic and the team, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144866	I thank my colleague Mrsic. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144867	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear Secretary of State. And our position on voting on this law depends on the fate of our amendments to the State Administration System Act, so here in general, a united debate on this law and the State Administration System Act could be held, there are only 4 articles, and this is, now, difficult to list, but somewhere the 30th Amendment to the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials, so that the 1998 Act is already a senior that was amended in '98, '99, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017. Therefore, it did not change in 2012 and 2018 and in 2010, as counterpart Shuker correctly noted. So, apparently in the state service there is also an official or an official who knows and the consolidated text of this law, circulating legends, it's very difficult to actually follow. The basis of this amendment is to remove the assistant ministers, introduce the chief state inspector and chief fire commander and some more technical and nomotechnical changes that there is, serve to further work on it. As for the height of the salary of the Chief State Inspector, and generally as regards the arrangements of the salaries of state officials, I think that certain changes in which my government was involved, and myself personally, for certain reasons which were at the time for solidarity with officials who had reduced the coefficients of 3%, then reduced the base for state officials, then there was a change in the tax system or income tax system, and then it was to not increase the salary to the state officials, again reduced the base, and so several times the basis for state officials, which in 2010 was equal to the official one, is now one decent level lower and of course I do not expect it to be so nearly increased that at the end of the day we politicians may be guilty, but it is not so much of a subject. Should the Chief State Inspector have a higher salary than some secretary of state is a matter of discussion? Perhaps, perhaps not, therefore, it is somewhere a State Secretary or so it could be called, and also in this law comes the Chief Fire Commander at the level of the Secretary of State and some other provisions of this law are changing. In short, therefore, if the system proposed by the Government and as regards the introduction of the director of the administration as an official instead of an assistant minister will live up to the next parliamentary elections, we will support this bill and if it does not, then neither will we support this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144868	I thank my colleague, Bauk. We are moving on to individual debates, and counterpart Djujic is not present. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144869	Thank you very much. So I'd say the government with this law is sending three structural messages for three structural changes. The first is that it wants to depolitise and professionalise and decentralise the state administration and has offered a model of how it wants to do so, in order to implement this model, it is necessary to implement a change of decisions on state officials and their salaries. This is the government's political decision, completely legitimate, with certain experiences from 2010, 2011 where this proved effective and good. The second thing, we as a small country, and we don't have so many professional people who are just dealing with the affairs of the state administration, so that we can change how the political nomenclature changes so that people change, if they want an efficient and good state administration, then we have to have professionals who know the job perfectly. And that's the first message this government has sent. Another message is strengthening inspection services, the simple operation of a separate inspectorate from 2012 to today has shown that this is not an effective service. The government has opted for a concept that proved effective in previous years. And here for the sake of the Croatian public, I want to tell one truth, it is not true that the State Inspectorate employs 500 people, the State Inspectorate based on the systematicisation that inspection services have by various ministries have the right to so many employees. Just because 500 people are missing from the systematization doesn't mean that it's hiring 500 new people. Whether and how many new people will be employed will be decided by a new state inspector with his associates in accordance with the need for service. And that's the truth that needs to be told here because it's not fair and correct from the colleagues who literally broke up a state institution that worked well to be little gods because they did something that fit them. Propose the law, the Croatian Parliament adopts it, and then you have inspection under your control which controls this implementation, you have a practically completed story, so it is SDP with your partners, who else would. Now that we want to make an independent inspectorate again, so people control how laws are implemented on the ground, which we adopt in this high house, those who broke up an institution that worked say it was wrong, and one of the former SDP government has also supported such a concept of the inspection service. Secondly, we are all angry and angry here when we see the keys, we actually have the knowledge that keys change somewhere in Ljubljana, Budapest or somewhere else, that guests change, and taxes are not paid anywhere. Now the inspectors of the State Inspectorate will also be able to enter such facilities. It is simply that anyone who carries out any activity in the Republic of Croatia has the right to do so, but therefore must pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia. That's true. Who cares if he says it in public? So that's another message and this law defines the salary of a new chief state inspector. The third thing, colleagues and colleagues nobody mentions here today, and these are our firefighters. When it burns in the summer, when in the autumn and spring blue, when these people selflessly expose their lives to save lives and property, then they're full of mouths and everybody wants to paint with these people, and when the fire department finally has a job and a place in the state administration nobody mentions the chief fire inspector today, they don't mention his salary and don't mention a brand-new status of Croatian fire department, say later, so nobody's talking about it. The next thing we need to do is the Fire Department Act where we need to define the status of our voluntary fire departments and professional fire departments more clearly, better and better. And you know colleagues and colleagues why no one has referred to this fire department today? Because there's no courage to say that that's the case. Otherwise, they would say because if they mentioned all these functions that HDZ would arrest someone, but very interestingly, they wouldn't dare say they'd also arrest the chief fire chief. Why? Because they don't dare object to one population. Because look, if you're talking about the Chief State Inspector, then what's the difference between this, but I'm saying the government sent three messages with this law. How he wants certain systems to work, to know exactly in the summer when it happens, don't give God any kind of fire, who acts and what who does. And he thinks that in this way and this kind of organisational form will be able to function perfectly well, so it's all sublime in these few articles of this law if someone wants to read it fairly and correctly. If he doesn't want to read it, if he doesn't want to admit his failures while he's had the chance to manage the country, that's his problem. Because you can see that the State Inspectorate worked so perfectly then the colleagues who kicked him out and kicked him up today would convince us with the results that it was good, but the only argument regarding the State Inspectorate is the appointment of a leading man, that's the only argument why the State Inspectorate doesn't fit. Or let's say about the formation of the state administration, so look if someone, which is a future candidate, is actually already announced that the candidate for president says I've got the election, I've got the political responsibility for the state, I'll take the people who will do it with me, if you said it was good then, and we're saying that it's not good, and today we say that it's not good, because in all the analyses and speeches of entrepreneurs, we say that bureaucracy is holding us back towards stronger and better economic growth and that Croatia is one healthy and more favourable environment for investment. Well, that's what we listen to every day, so if we listen and we all say it's like that, then it's definitely a need to change government, but when we finally get to it, when the law is proposed, then we don't have the courage to say in Article 33, 35 or 66, 67. The law on the establishment of a state administration that this is not right and that should be different, but let's look for political reasons. Comrade Boric, do you remember that law of Lex Komadin or what's his name? So when they simply didn't know how to avoid elections in the Primorje-Gorski County, then they passed the law if someone passed 2 years of mandate that they shouldn't. But when the SDP does that, it's not an enquirement, it's not a submission, it's a high democratic achievement, and when you offer structural reform changes, and then it's because of the correctness of the colleagues we've been sitting with in these parliamentary benches and who've acted on certain functions, you wouldn't want to talk about the many members of their families who have been very well sent to various ministries, so colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ government and this majority have decided on such changes, with this law we're sending three clear messages, we're going to vote it, we're going to fight that the state administration will actually be at the service of Croatian citizens, that Croatian citizens are more around a hundred doors when they need something to gain than that they can simply do in a place where they request and an efficient and depolited state administration will obtain all the information and provide to that citizen and the entrepreneur with a solution on whether they have a right to support this right, or to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144870	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. We have replicas, dear colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144871	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, when we talk about the State Inspectorate, it's worth remembering, in fact, all the four years we've been through, and they were the reason that we were the only country that, well, it took 10 years to get back to the GDP that we had in 2008, 4 years. We simply watched the only program that they had achieved and it had just taken over all the possible chairs that were available and all the new ones that they had invented in those four years to listen today that they had simply done it etc., but I'm going to do it more in my individual debate. Let's just think of the inspectorates and the way the ministers wanted to be the ones who had their inspectors, so if one entrepreneur resented him or wasn't he, then you know what's waiting for you. That inspector was coming to the door the other day and there was a check to see what you were doing but these are the times that obviously they quickly forgot even though they knew that whatever they were doing was wrong and the whole story about the inspectorate itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144872	Thank you, colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144873	Yes, fellow Boric, today we have said several times here that they to break up the State Inspectorate have changed 60 and some laws. And we had to re-organize a body that worked effectively again, and we had to put those laws back into the form that belonged to not once, and when the State Inspectorate was abolished, and when we were making the decision again on its own and on behalf of the club then and now they were saying that the ministers wanted to become little gods with inspectors because there was nothing more beautiful than when you passed the law, then your inspector supervised it, when some entrepreneur resented you one way or another and accidentally called you somewhere at some rally and sent him an inspection and let him think what he was talking about next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144874	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144875	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, just answer me one question, you were the finance minister, when you read this law, is the creation of a super secretary, so the Secretary of State of State of Central State's office the only reason this super secretary is to separate them from the regular secretary of state and provide them with higher salaries, drivers, a car for 24 hours? And that's something you can see in this law, it's an emergency that's very clear because there's no reason why we're creating a super secretary now, so the secretary of state in the central state office because it's a secretary of state like any other. As far as the fire inspector is concerned, so the fire chief is absolutely certain that he should have entered this one and it is not disputed but why he has a coefficient that is slightly lower than the chief state inspector, so both have great responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144876	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144877	My colleague Mrsic, you have the State Office and you have the Office of State Administration, these are quite two body-building state administrations. The state office because you know exactly what, the Head of State's Office is practically something beneath the minister's rank and the Office of State Administration is somewhat lower. So, then, at least we should know about it. The second thing, the secretary of state at the ministry is a man who takes care of the ministry's operational functioning. He's looking to run care and if he really does his job under his authority is both hiring and implementing public procurement and the functioning of the ministry, then it's logical that this man has the status he has. But look, Mrsic, we dared to change things in public, but you went back to what was long ago chewed and that's what we're different about, so we offered something new. What everyone's been for since 2010, and now that we're proposing it, suddenly some are against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144878	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144879	In 2011, respected fellow Shuker, when the euphoria of the winning elections prevailed, they were then able to get a colleague of Šprema here in the Croatian Parliament to pass that law lex Šprem, after which comes a number of laws in the Croatian Parliament, 58, 59 how much they should have changed because they wanted to destroy the State Inspectorate because it was an inquisition institution of HDZ. Then I remember very well that the Chief State Inspector was saying how many problems and forests would create in the Republic of Croatia, really so, in fact, it happened that you in the county buildings had several records of various inspection services and ministries that people said they didn't need facades on these buildings counties but were sufficient records of a large number of inspectorates.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144880	I thank my colleague Babic. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144881	Thank you very much. A colleague, Babić, the first man in charge of the State Inspectorate, is a colleague of Jordanic, who on one show said I am left of the leftmost, so to speak, an idea maker of this State Inspector, a man who is the left-wing political option, and today, and the left-wing political option has torn apart this State Inspectorate. And why is that? Only because of the desire to have power and power in their hands, not because of anything else. And the entanglement in all together that we're as unfair to some colleagues as you are to us, so it would be very embarrassing if we started to mention names here who was working where, but we never discussed it like that, at least we at the HDZ Club, and we're not going to discuss it. But it's degutant already this story of art, here it's exclusively about the functioning or not of the state administration, who doesn't have the courage to admit it, all indicators macroeconomicly and everyone shows that the results are given And that obviously hurts someone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144882	Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144883	A fellow Shuker visited us on the so-called. The 2011 Lex Komadina with the argument you said to avoid elections in the Primorje-Gorski County. Now, let me read you a list, Gary Cappelli was the mayor of Mali Losinj since the Minister of Tourism replaced him with the deputy to avoid the elections in Mali Losinj, Mr. Lovro Kuscevic was the head of the municipality of Nerežić after the Minister of Civil Engineering replaced him to avoid the elections, Mr. Tomislav Tolusic was mayor became the minister of the refugee election, Mr. Ante Babic was the head of the state secretary of the refugee election, Mr. Oleg Butkovic was the mayor of the Minister of Refugee Elections, Mrs. Rimac was the mayor of his office and he resigned to run the campaign to avoid elections, but also Ivan Kovačić, Bozo Petrov, Tomislav Panenić, so it was enough that the law was changed, if you did not change him in so many cases, then you used him as not to talk bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144884	Thank you, colleague Bauk, and watch your time, yes, yes, yes, you can speak to others and you can't see yourself. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144885	Comrade Bauk, if you hadn't done this, this would never have happened, and I pray nicely to, look, you just gave people a module of how to do it and people liked it and why would you change it for the good God, but look, I just wanted to tell you on the trail of how great you could resort to certain legal changes when it suits you. And please nicely, we criticized it, but look, you could have changed it later, and you didn't, and we just used it. So why if it's something good SDP brings, so why for God's sake spoil it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144886	We're not at a debate club, so don't interrupt your colleagues while he's talking. Next debate, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144887	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. So here's something I want to say about this Law on the Rights of State Officials because I think, as we heard today, we should have put it together, maybe in one debate, so we'd probably already be done, and we'd say everything we wanted to say and connect to each other because unfortunately we heard today on the side of the opposition that they attacked their own system that they built, and all morning they've been trying to forget about such a system not, and they've chitted it at the highest level, thinking that forgetting practically means that you have the right to everything. And now we're trying again through this bill of law and the debate a little bit back to what time we had because in my debate on behalf of the club I said that we left the system, meaning director of state administrations, director of the administration in 2011. And listen today to the fact that HDZ entangles it is below the level of normal communication and debate in the Croatian Parliament because all those who spoke, the most former ministers from the government of Zoran Milanovic, were kicking over everything they were doing at the time, and above all, they raised their hands for all the legal regulations or acts that multiplied the state administration with all the personnel they could, but not only the state administration but also businesses. I will read only one title, best man, wife, friend and SDP youth of the only client of the party's government, and the director of the journey is crumbling 100,000 kunas, Apis, IT company which has suddenly increased the number of employees, but is not about ordinary mortals, but about members of the ruling SDP party, Apis. They were not ashamed to say publicly in an interview at least that director, that the first and basic condition to enter such a company was the SDP membership card, nothing left. And today we hear from them that here are the systems that some other people in the public competition can become directors of the administration. It bothers me again. And we heard that we were the only government with three levels of officials, and the SDP wasn't. We listened to it and very convincingly they convinced themselves that they did not have 3 levels, especially Mrs. Voter who unfortunately did not have. They forgot that they had 3 levels, that those after 2 left by the HDZ government introduced 3 are ministerial assistants. Because what was I supposed to do? Obviously, this broad coalition was to be rewarded and the only programme they had achieved from Plan 21 was to fill in all the chairs available and invent many new ones. They invented new agencies, CERRP, CEI, this one, agencies various, and then those people who were in the mandates in those agencies very simple amendments to the law increased the number of members, I don't know the board of directors from 5 to 7 to replace all of them and put their directors in charge, and they did it neatly for 4 years. The only program, everything else went negative, from GDP, borrowing, credit rating, didn't matter. And today we hear that HDZ is doing it, and that they were just so good, that it simply couldn't be believed that they had worked out so well, and even before they became a government, it was the former minister of the administration who confirmed it, had changed the law to first increase the number of ministries by 4, meaning they invented for some ministers of their ministry then and then started talking about how I can't know, the mayor becoming a minister, and the whole state service then already in the transitional period the government, between the two governments, had already written the acts that came here at the first session I remember before the constitution, constituting, to change it, so that they could set up their ministers the next day. Some of those ministers that had changed, unfortunately, lasted only 5.6 months. And they were probably wondering what we needed when we just made someone make it become him and he was already after six months. He left office, he just couldn't perform that function, and today we have what we have, and now we have an accusation of why we use it or why it doesn't change everything, so we don't know how to answer these accusations anymore because when we want to reduce the number of agencies, which you're reducing or if you cut it, nothing is worth it, and that's how everyone's going to stay. We're 54 down, they're ten, I think the difference is, there's a difference. Then it's no argument either, but now you have more officials than we do, now that we're going to cut the number of officials by 90, I guess we're going to have less than they had, but it's still not good, and now those who are going to show up at the competition are also politicians in advance, they've already defined themselves. So why are we discussing and we already have a threat that when they happen to happen again, they appear to be able to maybe form a government, that they will all return to the same state as they are now. And, of course, I guess we're spinning in the same circle again. Citizens have to, then it's kind of acceptive and say we don't want that kind of thing anymore, so let's just let the two governments see what kind of system works, why is some future CEO of the apriori administration already starting just a politician? why we don't trust these people who are still at the head of certain administrations or who are head of certain departments, services within the ministry, that their expertise is worth less than some membership card. Why is that the most important motive for even talking about it... Inspectorate, those divorces, we put together, we had to change the same laws and they so much, and we would have a body that we think should be different from the legs we had, that not every minister has his own army or the system of repression that abuses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When they were warned about it in opposition, they said what you were worried about, it would be great and it wasn't good. What's the main problem now? The problem is pay. It's always a problem because they're the only ones who know the right thing to do. Let's also think of those other options, let's say the abolition of those preferential pensions, all those who were the loudest of prime ministers, I don't know, colleagues from HSU, etc., left with them because they laid down such provisions that they still have the right, these are the different thinkings that were directed to them at that and such a moment. I think this story, the chief state inspector or fire commander who sets up a new system, which is quite clear, has shown this also the debate on national security and on the strategy of national security how different the system is today than it has been so far and of course those we have noticed happening to us, that it has changed times, especially in the summer season when we have fires but also in the winter when we have floods, that this system needs to be raised to a higher level and we have done so, not just people, equipment, chain of command, integrity. We hear how great it used to be and how nothing's ever been wrong until today. I think this kind of level of debate just like this law that we think is a good thing, we want to reduce the number of state officials, the SDP is against, I don't understand it. And all the time they're telling us that we have the most and now you want to cut it down, they say we're against it. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, when it doesn't make sense, the question is what it does to every law and how much money or how much money it pays, or how much pay it should be, I estimate you, you have too much, I make a little lower salary, no. Well, I guess there are some jobs that can add a certain level of responsibility to someone, and they need to be paid more for it. I support this law and I believe that we are finally ending the story of formation, meaning all the necessary acts so that the system of the State Inspectorate, the fire department and everything but also the reduction of the number of officials we promised at the beginning of the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144888	Thank you, we have a few replicas, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144889	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, someone would believe that what you're saying is true, first of all, that it is true then to the head of the State Inspectorate, so the person who is right under the Prime Minister, so the Prime Minister manages the State Inspectorate, that you put an apolitical person, so the person who is not politically bound, who has the confidence of the prime minister, who is professional, and you put your city organisation of HDZ. And by this no one can trust you to want the State Inspectorate to be apolitical, efficient and not to be under political control. Just when we separated the State Inspectorate, then we abolished the possibility of direct policy control over certain inspections, and if you know any example that someone was using it politically, say here today in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144890	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144891	Thank you very much. Dear Mrsic, the question of who should determine who is an apolitical person, whether you are from the opposition because you have already looked at your logic, you have already designated future directors as political, you have been doing it all morning. And now who is it that you think would be apolitical in any function that should be called I don't know in any way. Who's that? Are you the former SDP ministers, the party, who is it? In advance, the people who are to be selected in a public competition are to be defined as political. And then why are you still threatening to put all this back in the same state if it ever happens to you in the future, I hope you never, ever, ever get that chance back to the way it was. So, you want to deal with political staffing, you want a system where there are a lot of officials, you want a system where the political chairs are filled because you did it well, I've read the godfathers I don't know women, friends Only in one company, and where everything else was. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144892	I thank my colleague, Boric. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144893	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up the replica I signed up for an individual debate because I had so much to tell Mr. Boric not to stop for a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144894	Thank you very much. Do you have an answer to your resignation? You don't. Thank you. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144895	Thank you very much. If Boric had any concrete objections then his colleagues would have called on the provisions of the law, and when you had no objections then all the art is like this, it is like that. Well, it would be convenient to see how many different ministries employ people after this election in 2011. But when it does SDP then it's not art, it's quality, it's expertise, it's knowledge and it's going to bring something great, and what brought great that we saw. However, it is definitely that we in this assembly can no longer discuss the problem that the law wants to solve but we are calling on some kind of doormaids and I don't know what else, but I say all the happiness, so in the habitat of HDZ MPs, it's not that we call our colleagues and begin to list who they are from.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144896	Answer. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144897	I mean, I don't know how many times we need to repeat it, so they didn't get used to seeing each other these days, all the legal means to achieve some of their political goals, they didn't take advantage of the opportunities that gave them the laws to lay down their own architecture, they were supposed to make up for it in these relationships, 4 ministries more than they did in the end, over 140 I think all together. And they simply all the time claimed there were fewer of them than that government that was before. We were saying one thing, the other one, they were saying it was a legitimate right. Now that we have the legitimate right to reduce the number of officials, they say we don't want it, we want it to continue to be 160 officials, but we're going to tell you every time there are a lot of them. And so on every subject, complete unbelief, people who, they didn't slip into their cabinets through that famous revolver door to bring either wives or godfathers, etc., and in that case, some of them got along and stayed permanently somewhere. In other competitions, not everyone escaped or left. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144898	... a colleague, Boric. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144899	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, please don't help us like this again. He says they reduce the number of officials and transfer them to officials but with higher salaries, yes, with higher salaries because state officials don't have the right to master's degree, doctorate etc., so you'll transform the coefficient of assistants into employees and then eventually these HDZ officials will all, and we'll make a table to see how many assistants have become directors and there we'll present it to the public, believe me, they'll probably all be assistants plus, minus one, two, if anyone moves to Croatian roads or highways or to some state firm. And then you'll see how much you're telling the truth and how much we're telling the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144900	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144901	Comrade Maras, we said, I remember the speech of the prime minister who said it right away in his opening speech that we would have assistants for 2 years and that we would pass the law and professionalise it, we now heard the party determine what is a politic, so their opinion is only credible. So if Mrsic says he's either you, that he's a politician, then he's a politician, if you say he's apolitical, maybe he can pass. It's your right that you've always taken for yourself. You weren't here when I said in my debate that you were one of the ministers to whom we had to, one small minister i.e. The great minister of the small ministry of entrepreneurship, not that he had to take care of himself in the cabinet of the wife of one of his SDP mayors and travel with him around the world in Las Vegas, to try to look at some of this boxing match then, so it didn't arrive, but the use of all the privileges then was clear. [[Please don't come in, colleagues.]] cross every line, and people know it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that's why they told you twice. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144902	... a colleague, Boric. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144903	Thank you very much, Kolega Boric hurt 238, he didn't tell the truth about me hiring and that someone told me to hire the mayor's husband, so nobody told me, I hired him myself, and at that point, Mrs. Ikić Banic was not even mayor. So, you've completely missed as the black swan strep missed the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144904	Thank you. My colleague Maras would kindly ask you not to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, if we were found somewhere in Article 238 that a parliamentary representative should not speak or speak or speak false then you can refer to this article. So, I ask you nicely not to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because you have called on the wrong article of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144905	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, you spoke of the number of ministries, so I'm interested in what government's call was more than 20 ministries as we do today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144906	Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash, answer, colleague Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144907	In your assembly, as I recall, there were 20 ministries and they were created from 16 to 20 because some of them were likely to split up to become ministers in that programme of embezzling or meeting all needs. And you were created in one ministry that was unique before, so there were two of them, if I remember well, and now it turns out that you're some kind of earring that I don't want to say because you've been doing your own job correctly, but when we've been listening to a story like this all day, then it's going to go back a little bit to figure out that you've been using some kind of morning debate here to attack the system that you've created, and that when we've been listening to it all day, we want to change it now and we're going to change it, and we're going to change it without you, and then there's a third, and we're going to have more officials or less, we're going to say that we're going to have less but you're also not satisfied, and you've said twice that you don't support these laws, which I think, which means that you don't support a small number of officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144908	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So during the last two individual discussions, I've heard a few formulas that I absolutely disagree with and are factually incorrect, so I took a little bit more time to sort of analyze it in more detail. Therefore, the first sentence was “toppled by the State Inspectorate”. It's a small too sharp formulation, all the officers who worked at the State Inspectorate remained officials and worked in other institutions. They worked according to laws that were in force and if they worked correctly, an institution whose seal was only a matter of organisations. Whether this organization is better or not, it's a matter of some kind of debate, interpretation, but the word was torn apart, which means that all the officers who were there were driven home and that didn't really happen. Secondly, I would stand in the defense of Mr. Mikulic, his bill has reduced his salary compared to what he has in the House, he was the chairman of the board, the coefficient of 6.42, now he is 6.21, right, Mr. Secretary of State, see, so, yes, and he can't even be in the assembly by that, I think he should go back to 6.42 and not 6.21, and then that would be fine. As for the reduction of the number of state officials, it is formally true but it is formally true, but those jobs are not abolished, so the administrations of the ministries will continue to manage and they will receive the salary, whether it will be that person who is now managing and will become an official, it will be one of the existing officials who will advance or be someone who is not now in the system, it is a question but in no case the costs for ducks are reduced by either officials or officials. Third, a rhetorical question as to how busy it has been since the 2011 elections, it has been employed so much that at the end of the government's mandate from 2011 to 2015, respectively, it is until 1 m. In 2016, the number of those who receive salaries from the state budget decreased by 3500 compared to the data I have in my report on the implemented Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities where that number was reduced by 700 in state bodies, I saw that the other day. So, in this sense, the law really has nothing to do with it because government officials are leaving the ministries after the term of office. Now, as far as this story goes, how many ministries were there, colleague Boric, now a short historical display. So the new Law on Number and Fraction of Ministrys and Other Central Authorities of State Administration in 2011 has made an increase in the number of ministries, and you said 4, though that does not mean that the composition of the Government has been increased by 4 because in that, no, no, no, slow down, we are going systematically, because that last one is being convened by Mrs. Adlesic and Mr. Zelec and Mr. Milosevic Domagoj were vice-presidents of the government without a ministry, so there is no big difference. And well, so the government was formed, which was the same, in the number of ministries, and it ended its mandate and then came the new government of Tihomir Oreskovic. At the end of our term, we had one vice president who had no portfolio, Mr Mimicu, he went to the European Commission in 2013, and then we ended up with zero vice presidents without portfolios and then the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic and, behold, we got two vice presidents who didn't have their own ministry plus all those ministries that were made in the term of our government, so you were in relation to this huge government, as soon as you came to power, you increased the number of members of the government by 2 and that by two vice presidents. Therefore, you left our law, our composition as well as this Lex Komadin, so if that's good, don't criticise it, if you haven't changed it in 8 years or 3 years, I guess it's good. And then this government fell apart, new elections came and finally came a new law on the system of the number of ministries, and then there was a magic trick. So, you chose first the minister without a portfolio, Mr. Goran Maric, and then a month later you founded him a ministry. At least before we agreed which ministers we would be, and then we founded a ministry for them and you first appointed a man as a member of the government and then you set up a ministry for him because a man said if I lost the ministry, I would leave the government. So it really sounds so nice sometimes when it's just a little bit going into the depths, in analysis, it's not like that. So, of course, I don't think, and even today, I'm not clear whether the inspectorate should have been independent or should have been in various ministries, that's, for me it's an organisational issue, sometimes it's good that power and responsibility has been scattered, then it crosses, sometimes it can go into anarchy, so it's good to go back, it's a dynamic process and I don't argue that this solution is better either, but as far as political circumstances are concerned, so now we've seen that not only so if you haven't been able to reduce the number of ministries in the first government because there's MOST as well as who's going to end up with them, it's much easier to fill out new things than to do new homes, who knows what can happen, and then you just increased the number of vice presidents by two, but in this second step when you've had a solid majority, you've brought the law, you've made the ministries, formed the ministries, given the ministers, gave them without portfolios, and then made him a new minister, and then made him a post ministry. So I think here's my brief analysis, it took me seven minutes to answer your line instead of one and thank Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144910	I thank my colleague, Bauk. We have a replica, dear colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144911	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk, you and I have never been able to agree on any issues, so we're not gonna get around this one. You were the secretary of the administration, I didn't, you lied to your own system, I said before you became minister of administration, so you're a little bit more of the work of civil servants who did it for you without a problem and you came to the session and before the constitution you created this one yourself. What makes us different when we talk about governments is that you had the first vice president of the government, this government doesn't have it and it was a big fight who's going to be the first vice president and such a government, who's more important than all the other vice presidents, and that was your thinking that it was allowed then. And as for the total number of officials, we're going to show that we're behind what we said, the prime minister said, at the end of this government's term, we're going to have 60 less than you had and you can talk whatever you want and whatever it looks good, bad or wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144912	I thank my colleague, Boric. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144913	Thank you. Yes, we had the first Deputy Prime Minister but he also had the Ministry. Mr. Cacic was Minister of Economy until he stopped being Minister of Economy but then he was Mrs. Pusic's first vice president, but she had a ministry, too. As for the number of officials, so look, you've currently increased the number of officials compared to our government because there was a deputy and there were several state secretaries. And the rest of them are assistants. Now you're going to reduce the number of assistants, that's okay, and then you're going to be one part of them if not all of them, but at least one part of them are going to name the officers, so the number of employees is going to grow up, these people are going to stay working, and you're going to say that you've reduced the number of officials and we're going to tell you that you've politicized the administration or we're not, depending on who you name on those duties, but I suspect those who came for the assistants are willing to go home after 2 years, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144914	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144915	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course he won't go home after 2 years, but all those who are now assistants will replace his job as assistant minister from the post of director as they did in 2010 and as HDZ did and will do in the future and so far in a way that takes care of the staff, that he preys on people and ultimately does not do benefit and save the state budget, but on the contrary, to trom and to do inefficient and ineconclusive state administration. As far as this ridiculous thing is concerned, because of one man, we are changing the State Officials Act in order to get his salary in there, so now that someone is analyzing whether it's closer to the Secretary of State or to the Minister or to someone else, it just shows how this government works, the compromises that within the HDZ need to be served in order to reconcile the conflicts and problems that this party has, we see yesterday, for example, that it calls out for the prime minister and practically begs Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic to run, HDZ at this time has no candidate for president and we do not know what is going on for the current president and why she is afraid to run in the presidential elections, something has been hinted at by counterpart Seks in his interview on Sunday night but the point is that these conflicts, as we said before European elections and now continue in the HDZ, paralyze the entire state, in order to solve Mikulić, we are changing the law to determine his salary, tomorrow someone third, perhaps President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, will come again the day after the third one not to mention names now, little is that and in some way incorrect towards colleagues who are now in a kind of war within HDZ, but what I want to say, Croatia and Croatian citizens did not deserve to be managed by the Republic, and therefore we can say that they will be able to be able to change them all this year in advance, so that they will be aware of the state and so that they will be able to change them in advance. to the director of the administration, I can't think in a way that will stay in that place for life as Andrew Plenkovic or HDZ imagined because it's not fair, it's not fair, it's not fair that now all the people who were appointed assistant ministers are getting a life job tomorrow just because that's what HDZ decided. Who would dare to act in that way if he were responsible for this country to simply prey on over 100 people so that you would have more wages than they have today, because I said earlier they and exercise the rights to certain allowances that the ministerial assistants or government officials did not have. And on this side Croatia is at this point in the position of a stalemate position i.e. I would say that the hostage of these situations, the authorities gathered from the hills from the valley, bought by refugees from other parties or other political options, and it simply has to work that way. But it all comes to a charge, not as it comes to the charge of confidence in the European elections, so the elections are lost, after which it will come to a charge almost certain victory by some opinions in the presidential elections, I guarantee you that at this point, according to my assessment, the HDZ candidate is only the third who can count on winning those presidential elections. So I think the candidate who announces Miroslav Skoro is much stronger than the HDZ candidates and more dangerous than HDZ candidates in these next elections. So that after these two defeats will come soon and parliamentary elections and you don't have to be afraid of colleagues in general, you will do as you deserve. So, it's very, very simple, I don't see how HDZ would even be able to exercise power no matter how many mandates he won because potential partners who are now in the coalition won't even get close to the electoral threshold, and on the other hand HDZ is far from coming into position alone to form power. So, on that side, I can easily say once again that these things that HDZ is trying to cement won't stay like that forever, it's going to take a year, a year and a half, and then this one finally needs to make the administration depolitized what HDZ is doing right now, and basically wants to further politicize the administration and make it so that some people stay inside for life, just because of what HDZ has. So, clapping in Lisinski should not be so expensive, nor should Croatia pay so expensively for the activists of the party that HDZ so well applies in its practice. In itself, it's embarrassing that because of one man we've been discussing here for the first time, of course it's also very well recognised by the citizens in the elections in Zagreb where HDZ got 13%, a really high score, so I think that, in fact, the black swan is hiding somewhere on Jarun, swimming, it's been seen there somewhere, so try to understand that on the other hand, all of what you're doing is going to be part of the fee or not, it's going to be fined in every next election. Fortunately, the elections are close, presidential and then very quickly and parliamentary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144916	Thank you, colleague Maras. We have a replica, dear colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144917	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, speaking of these choices, etc., just recently passed one. And I can say first that I was unhappy that you were 7, because I think that given the effort you've put into being at least a little bit ahead of you, but when you were already 7 and when you took as protector James Bond, I think that in these elections you simply questioned his name, he's a man who fights evil, he's a man who wins, you're not, you were 6 per number of mandates, even some lady who later got into that SDP got more votes than you. This effort of yours simply cannot bear fruit, except that in Zagreb you defeated a man whom no one has ever heard of, at least I did not. So simple as it will be when it is, it will show time. That story of yours about you being some big party now, you've lost almost 50,000 votes now. Do not treat citizens and yourself in this way Raise your wings when I say you went bad with all.../incomprehensible.... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144918	I thank my colleague, Boric. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144919	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric is not the problem that I won in Zagreb at all, but the problem is that you would probably get the same result as that colleague who doesn't do so much public work, so that we can take you out to Mark's square, in the same way you'd probably recognize the citizens as a fellow non-public worker, and on the other hand, when you win any election of 10,000 votes or more, then contact me. You haven't done it yet, and believe me, you won't make it. I can only tell you that. So you're not gonna make it, this time when you first get to that position, feel free to come forward and then comment, comment on the others. So you get 10,0000 votes and 10 once more once 13 and then you get a nice call and comment, while you get 1,000 2 votes, I don't think it's appropriate to give these replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144920	Thank you, colleague Maras. I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues to stick to the agenda and keep the debate at one decent level, no disrespect and no humiliation to anyone. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Injured Article 238 because Mr. Maras is false at the expense of his colleagues, Boric says he should answer the word when he gets 10,000 votes at Croatia's level. Mr. Boric received 35,000 votes for information to Mr. Maras at the level of the Primorje-Gorski County. So Mr. Maras would have to ask Mr. Boric every time he got up, if he could say something because his score was 3 and a half times smaller, and the unit was all over Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144922	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. I have already told Mr. Maras that Article 238 does not speak of Mr. Maras, that Article 238 does not speak of any untrueness by MPs when debated, so that I think you are wrong and please do not abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We have a final word of respect, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144923	Thank you very much. My colleague Bacic insulted me, and this is really an insult to my colleague Bačić, no. So to say that when I get the result as a colleague, it means not that I have achieved such results but every time I get more votes than my colleague, Boric, in all parliamentary elections that have voted preferentially so far, no, so please don't insult you, and we don't know what really elections you mean, 35 thousand votes that's who I am to drum up like this, what's inside the HDZ for the leader of the PGZ, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144924	Thank you, colleague Maras. Since the second time you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning. We have the final word, on behalf of Club HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Dr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144925	Mr. Vice President. So let's clear some things up, here's the final, say where HDZ entangles it, so the State Inspectorate, first of all, let's say that in most European Union countries there is no such mastodon, there is no State Inspectorate with thousands and a half of people. The State Inspectorate is currently at the level of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute by number, by number of people. Everywhere in Europe it is the State Inspectorate or the State Inspectorate is a small functionally organised unit of state administration which aims to prevent illegal activity, in the first place it is related to customs, that the second part of the inspection and the third part is, therefore, labour rights, and that is, in all countries it is related to the Ministry, the competent ministry, that is, the ministers who want to influence the work of the Ministry, if one Germany is not the problem for years that even the Minister of Labour does not affect the work of the Inspectorate there, I speak from my example, obviously that neither in Croatia would be a problem, but it is obvious that it is important to arrest a certain number of people, so in the new State Inspectorate’s office there is 18 new jobs, four times more than Mr. Jordanić had at the time when he was head of the State Inspectorate. Mr. Mikulic will be joined by another deputy and four assistants, but this is not the only thing that is hypertrophy unlike Mr. Jordanic, code, Mr. Mikulic will have five times the human potentials sector. One hundred and three new jobs are foreseen in this Sector for new human potentials, it will have a single accounting of 30 employees, the IT sector 27, the 30-seat supply sector, and it will be filled with 80%, which is the average fill-up of the Regulation, it's too God's. There are too many people who are going to get caught up in this state, state inspectorate. I note that, when we disbanded the State Inspectorate that we then saw that in that State Inspectorate in 2013, the State Audit was not the only time, and it was obtained from chairs, from cars, that I wasn't saying everything else, and that was one of the reasons why we disbanded the State Inspectorate because it was the location of corruption, nepotism, membership cards, the moss of HDZ cards, and that was why the State Inspectorate was disbanded. And now HDZ is bringing it back in the same form, setting up a political person, so the person who heads the HDZ organisation in the City of Zagreb, so you can't say it's apolitical. Mr. Jordanic was a left-handed man but he was never a member of any party, but I would understand that you put the head of the State Inspectorate person who is right-wing, who is here for Mr. Stier's apology, that he is not offended, that a rigid right-wing man, but that has nothing to do with either HDZ or anyone else, and that would be okay with me, the decision is like that, but put on the head of the State Inspectorate a person who is highly politically exposed to HDZ, says HDZ wants to control the State Inspectorate and nothing more. And one last thing, it creates HDZ super secretary of state because the secretary of state has been without a car so far, without being able to have a 24-hour driver at their disposal because to mention that MOST abolished the deputy ministers, and then abolished the secretary of state, and now we return these super secretaries where we enable them with good pay, we allow them to have a car and a driver 24 hours a day, which is rather than kissing people the way HDZ does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144926	The Honorable Representative Shuker has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What is the injured Rules of Procedure, and what is the point?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144927	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is the chairman of the Croatian Parliament, because when you are a former minister and parliamentary representative, he lets you say behind the Croatian Parliament's pay phone that the body in which he works a thousand and a few more inspectors were subjected to corruption and crime, that is the bottom of his colleague Mrsic. That's the bottom of the line, because you as a minister, if that's true what you said against who you filed a criminal report against? It's a shame and you can be ashamed that you insulted so many honest and honest people. ... [[People speak in the same voice, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144928	Thank you. Thank you. No, I'm guessing this one didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and please don't... Let's not go from the bench, let's not go from the bench... [[People speak in the same voice, they don't understand.]] Please. [[People speak in the same voice, they don't understand.]] Please, this one please don't come from the bench. Enough. No, please don't do both. This concludes the debate on this point and we're crossing... Good, 'cause we can stop fighting from the bench? Let's go, come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144929	We move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 618. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. We move to the first amendment of the Legislative Committee, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144930	Thank you. The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144931	Thank you, it becomes an integral part of the law. We move to the 2nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144932	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the coefficient for the calculation of the salary of the Chief State Inspector established in the final draft law is considered justified in view of the width of the section and the number of different administrative areas of the State Inspectorate and the number of employees in that body and the associated responsibility of the head of that body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144933	Thank you, dear fellow Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144934	We consider it unwarranted because Mr. Mikulić does not have a number of employees, nor a wider part of the work as Mr. Jordanic, who was headed by that inspectorate or as Mr. Markt who was last at the head of that inspectorate, therefore it does not stand for what you said but, it is only a whole of the people because you want Mikulić to pay a salary that will be more than 18 thousand kuna net with the aim of putting him away in those January of the State Inspectorate, and it was also seen yesterday that the State Inspectorate is working because when they asked the chief state inspector whether the construction inspection would go out on the ground to see where these villas are, Minister Kušević, did not answer that question, which means that this function is deeply, deeply politicised and that this award is Mr. Mikulić for going to leave the president of the Zagreb branch office of the HDZ. There's no reason for him to have a salary of 18 thousand kuna. I note that Mr. Jordanic and Mr. Markt had nothing wider, they had nothing less, and they had a coefficient of 5.27. Four thousand reasons why Mr. Mikulić accepted this function, obviously it was an agreement that he had a higher salary than he would have had if he had remained this coefficient which is the coefficient so far. All this is a sign that the State Inspectorate is politicized and that it will be one who the State Inspectorate and HDZ loves, you will have no inspection, and those who do not love him will have inspections every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144935	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Are you looking for a vote? Thank you very much. We are moving on to the amendments to the HDZ Representatives Club. 1st Amendment to Art. One, here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144936	The amendment shall be accepted in part in the amended form. Namely, art. 1st to be applied, Article 1st to be accepted. 1. concerning the current subparagraph 29 and the current subparagraph 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144937	Can you read what it says?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144938	So it's in the subst so far. The 29th that becomes a subst. 28. Behind the words, the Director shall be deleted and the words of the Deputy Director and Assistant Director shall be deleted. In so far's subst. 31 that becomes a subst. 30 behind the word Director, the point is deleted and the words of the Deputy Director and Assistant Director, meaning it refers to HZMO and HZZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144939	Thank you. Do you accept the amended amendment? Dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144940	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144941	Thank you. We are moving on to the 2nd Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Art. Two, here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144942	Thank you. Art. 2 relating to point 8, subpoint. b, point 10. subpoint. ♪ and a touch ♪ 11th floor. And to the point. 12 is accepted, and the original article reads, in Art. 2 after chapter 10, new items, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 are added, and you have received in the materials, if you want to read it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144943	So you accept in the modified form. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144944	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144945	Thank you. We are moving to the 3rd Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, Art. Three, here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144946	Thank you. So, as far as the third amendment is concerned, it means in Art. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 1 shall be added, meaning that we accept that part of the salaries of HZMO Deputy and Assistant Directors and the salaries of HZZZ Directors who, on the date of entry into force of this Act, are found in those responsibilities, until they have ceased their duties, will be accounted for according to the following coefficients: Deputy Director of HZMO 4,98, Assistant Director of HZMO 4,55, Deputy Director of HZZ 4,26 and Assistant Director of HZZ 3,97. Deputy and Assistant Director of HZMO and Deputy and Assistant Director of HZZ as referred to in Article 4 of this Article. They shall cease to act within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144947	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144948	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144949	Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144950	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 618. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 91 votes for a decision to conduct a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to explain the amendments submitted, and we have the Secretary of State with us at the Ministry of Administration Darko Nekic, so I ask you to explain everything, all three amendments, and then we will conduct a united discussion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144951	I thank Mr. President and welcome all MPs and MPs. Therefore, Amendment 1 in Article 1(8) is amended and reads as follows: “The current subparagraph of Article 29 becomes subparagraph 28. The following paragraphs 9 and 10 shall be added: ‘In the current subparagraph of Article 30, which becomes the subheading 29: ‘director, Deputy Director and Assistant Director’, shall be replaced by the word ‘Employer’. This amendment proposes to delete the current position of deputy director and assistant director of HZZO, and is also replaced by the name of director in order to comply with the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which is prescribed in Article 105 that the HZZO is managed by the Director. By eradicating the current positions of deputies and assistants, it is possible to rationalise the costs and depolitisation of the public administration, as the deputies and assistant directors of the HZZO will have official status instead of the current status of the state official. Amendment 2 to Article 2(2) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 10 shall be added to the new paragraphs 11 and 12 which read as follows: ‘In point 8 point (c) shall be deleted. In point 10, point (a) is deleted.’ The reasons for this amendment propose to delete both the name and the Deputy and Assistant Director of the HZZO and the corresponding coefficients in accordance with the amendment to Article 1 which is proposed to delete the former positions of HZZO Deputy and Assistant Director. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So Deputy Director of HZZO 4.98, Assistant Director 4.55. This amendment shall regulate the remuneration of the Deputy and Assistant Director of the HZZO in the transitional period until the conduct of those duties has ceased, so as to establish it according to the current coefficients for those duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144952	I thank the Secretary of State and open a debate on the government's amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the debate, only representatives of representatives of the clubs may participate. He reported on behalf of SDP's representative, a colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One of the nice things to say on Fridays is to speak in front of a full assembly, especially in front of the ruling majority because it's impossible otherwise to see representatives of the ruling majority except at the vote, in the tracks you meet them. But when we talk about this law, it's important to highlight a few things. So the Croatian citizens have seen what is essential for the ruling majority, Prime Minister Plenkovic and those who should take care of and take care of their well-being for the past few months. So it is important for them to arrest forever their colleagues and colleagues from HDZ who are now ministerial assistants and under the form of transfers from state officials to directors as professional services who will work there until their retirement will essentially transfer more than 100 of their colleagues and colleagues from HDZ to people who will have salaries that will be as they are and now, means we are not talking about any savings, but 13, 14, 15,000 kunas to pensions without competitions and without what citizens want these people to prove themselves to say in their job as official in individual ministries. So, the vast majority of these people were not working there until 3 years ago, they weren't officials, and now, by law and decision of the HDZ, they're going to get a 100th and a few new employees who'll have a salary of EUR 2,000 or 14000 while our people leave Croatia. So this is a very clear picture of HDZ and Croatia as they see it. Let people go from Croatia to Ireland, Germany, Austria, but let our party colleagues and colleagues stay on good pay. Another paradox that we have seen here is how intra-party combinations and agreements cause a debate on more than 30 laws, and hence the laws that are related to the new official we have in the law, which is the chief state inspector. So which, in order to get out of the City of Zagreb from the seat of the president of the assembly, to free up the space for Mr. Prgomet who Prime Minister Plenkovic wanted to become president, we had to come up with a new law, a new place, a new coefficient, which, by the way, has paid almost as a minister's salary. So for one man we changed 35, 40 laws at the end of the day we invented his salary, or HDZ invented his salary, he folded it into a government official's bill, and we ended up losing a few months to solve the problem that is exclusively HDZ's problem. And when we are going to solve ladies and gentlemen the problem of the trust of Croatian citizens in our officials when we look at every day of Mr Kustević's new estate, which has surfaced for 60,000 kunas, and sold 20, 30 times more expensive during the time of man's change of plans, there is work for who knows who and it is amazing that Prime Minister Plenkovic defends people who have acquired millions of kunas and does not decide to make the only logical move to resolve and show the Croatian citizens that it is more important for him to have clean people in his government than those who have won millions and millions of kunas during their term of office for which they cannot explain in any way. Finally, they still make fun of Croatian citizens and share videos explaining to everyone in Croatia how it is possible to get 7-8 million kunas up to 44 years of age if they say college as if not a few hundred thousand of our citizens finished college, if you worked as if 100-and-100 thousand of our citizens were not tortured every day to eat from 1st to 1st and fail to make such a property for one simple reason only to a colleague, Bačić, for one simple reason, and that is what members and members of HDZ are not. Which did not allow them to work non-transparently, which do not have a political background, which they do not have the opportunity to avoid answering the questions logically given to them by the Croatian public. How is it possible for someone to pay the country during their principal term of office of 60,000 kuna, after which they are sold to know how much higher the price. If these are our capable HDZ chiefs we see every day someone comes out, here's the one that came out yesterday who also got rich and used the municipality's money, so USKOK picked up the charges, but it's amazing, so you can also have people who don't respect the laws because as you would say, such people exist, no, therefore there are laws, so there are investigative institutions to look for those who enforce the laws and who don't abide by the law. But it is amazing that the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia refers to what Mr. Lovro Kuštević did on Brač, a little more real estate to surface Mr. Kuštević's plot, someone joked about it, will get the status of the county as much as man succeeded, how many countries in Brac, on that one not-too-too-too-too-too-too-too-too-too-to-real island, land and how much he managed to multiply his property. So imagine, for example, that Kresso Beljak is in Samobor, imagine that someone who Kuščević was like Kresso Beljak in Samobor. Please, it's funny to you, I see it's funny to you, you're making fun of the fact that during the chief's term of office, every honor of yours, the principal's office had a country, he's re-scheduled and it's worth 20 times more than when he bought it. It's funny to you and you rule on behalf of Croatian citizens and you laugh at it. Well, you're laughing at every citizen in the face, you're not ashamed of yourself. People are leaving Croatia, 100,000 people are gone, and you're laughing and it's normal for you. Instead of you being the first to say that no such things are allowed. You laugh and talk about what you did and when you did. So your man Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the political secretary of the HDZ, can't explain where he got the money from. Is that funny to you? Come on, Boric. He's laughing now. What's not funny to you? Smile. You think that's funny? So laugh if you think it's funny, laugh. Let the man explain where his money came from. How can you support this man? We do. Thank you very much, Mr. President, I must admit that I've been a little upset, I'm usually calm, but I've been a little upset by this non-chalantness with my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. [[/Intruder President: You speak freely of your colleague Maras, but don't call people all the time, I calmed them down and don't call them names. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let Gordan Maras speak.]] It is amazing to me that someone can defend despite all the headlines, documents, reports, the value of the estimated asset, that man cannot explain to him how this property was multiplied during his term of office and that it is simply possible to follow a mockery. I realized don't be angry, Mr. President, as if people are laughing at Croatian citizens and saying they can do whatever they want. I am convinced that I can't, they saw it a few months ago, they will see it and when and if their vonabi candidate Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, so HDZ would want it, but Mrs. Kolinda doesn't want it, they will also see it in the presidential elections, and in the end they will see it in parliamentary elections. Because we are intransparency, not giving information from where you, not being honest with Croatian citizens, have to condemn irresponsibility to Croatian citizens in Croatia most strongly. The fact that HDZ learned this and while Mr. Boric was assistant and Mr. Kalmeta, who is now a senior HDZ official, this is not a problem for Croatian citizens, it is a problem for HDZ. The problem of Croatian citizens is that they have a government that has no legitimacy at this time, the support of Croatian citizens and that they have a government that immediately has such an apparent violation of the law. It means that a man while the mayor of the municipality as an official manages to multiply his property so much is amazing. It's amazing and even more amazing that Prime Minister Plenkovic supports it. I don't know why, there is no power likely to be dealt with with irregularities in HDZ because such a situation is after the loss of European elections. And now we have a status quo, a stalemate position that will probably last until the next parliamentary elections. Nothing in HDZ will happen but what happened during 2000 during the HDZ government that we have non-transparency, illegality who knows how much, that Croatian citizens leave Croatia and do not get the most basic answers and security that the state should give them. Gentlemen of the HDZ explain where your minister let you have a million kuna. Explain if you can, here is Mr. Boric talking behind me, let him explain here in front of the Croatian public from where and how it is possible for someone to acquire millions of kunas, that someone buys out their own business space and sells it twice as expensive, it's also about millions of kunas, that they manage to buy land, so through a spatial plan it's rescheduled and again for millions of kuna. As possible and as allowed by HDZ and not to be sanctioned at all, neither by criticism nor by criticism that the prime minister says that I am being rewarded if that is true, Lovro Kuščević will no longer be a minister. Not by still boasting here in front of HDZ, and we are proud of the HDZ political secretary who was able to achieve Croatia's HDZ dream in that way, which is to make you rich in a few years and nobody really knows which way. And that people are leaving Croatia and that they're not in the HDZ at all, and they don't care that most people are probably leaving the Republic of Croatia because of what the country is in this state that you brought it in. So today, instead of having on the cover some things that would give people optimism, we unfortunately have a situation where, on the front pages, a legitimate public is looking for answers that HDZ does not give and will get, I promise you Croatian citizens, the public and the answers because SDP will refer the recall of Minister Kuščević to the procedure because we will look for answers. If we don't get them now, we'll get them when we can get them. Because covering such non-transparentities and irregularities can only be harvested, only the mayor who trades with Prime Minister Plenkovic around Zagreb's GUP can he guard him, Mr Lovre Kuščević, and in return HDZ will support the changes of the general urban plan in the city of Zagreb, remove a large part of the green area on Velesajm and around Hippodrom and de facto devast our city. On the other hand, on the other hand, I urge you all here all together not to accept this law because this law is an equative example of how one party, members of a party, is eligible to get caught and not give answers to the ones you should. And that's that black on white shows us how the ministers of HDZ succeed in just a few years getting from the property of x to the property of y that is 10 or 20 times larger than it was yesterday. These are questions that interest our citizens and believe me, we'll get them eventually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144954	The second Club of Representatives is HDZ and respected counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144955	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here I want to be a little different from our colleagues on the other hand because the fact is that they've never done anything good in this country so that these situations too much would cause something other than trying to deal with each and every single one in every way, especially the Law on the State Administration System, which has very clearly shown that in both the first and second readings we want to professionalise public administration. And then when we spoke, we clearly said three goals of depoliticalisation and further professionalisation, another decentralisation or the approximation of the administration to citizens and third digitisation, the introduction of a single management post. We simply want a more professional, better, closer administration to Croatian citizens. To what it came down to, you heard from this side of the team that came in 2011 and had a law similar to that which was then in the application where the first directors of the administration existed and who for purely political reasons were to achieve the only programme they wanted, which was to fill out every chair and to invent a new one and fill it out changed that law and instead of the previous directors of the administrations elected in public tenders were reintroduced by the assistant ministers. And that was fine with them, they named hundreds of assistants and they didn't mind. As they looked, as it ended, the citizens said twice in the election, two compelling defeats. And of course our government's message was already the prime minister himself at the beginning, at a constitutional session that we wanted to have a system like this for a while and that we would eventually change the system and return what we had in 2009 to a professional public administration and that it would remain only for the minister and deputy minister. Of course, then in that segment, we have what's heard from fellow Maras. Who's Maras? The minister who used legal opportunities to take care of his office doesn't know the wife of some of his colleagues and travels around the world to Las Vegas, spends hundreds of thousands of kunas and tells the citizens that it was justified and how great it was because it was good to see Maras as a minister along with all his associates. And we have a situation that's very interesting, and it's been out there for several days, in Sisak, buying some real estate just from that mayor, but nobody cares, or it's not interesting why a house is worth 100,000 euros and everyone says it's worth 10,000 or 20,000 of some kind of euros, and it's okay for everyone, why, because SDP always thought they were allowed everything that someone else shouldn't be allowed to do, and that's how they acted. Why didn't a colleague of Maras have a problem with Jakovina and his pharmacy affair? Why didn't he bother you? He said it's a great thing, that it's okay and that such a man should be a full-aged minister for four years and that he shouldn't be replaced because it's possible in his term when you're a minister to sell your stakes in some kind of company, some close to your people, and that's how it works. And today we have the same situation. The story that he's been trying to name someone else all the time to try to be convincing. Catastri, who wrote down, so let's check out everyone, why just some minister, here, a colleague of the Beljak is mentioned here, maybe he should sign up or not, maybe a colleague of Maras bought something, so let him also say that if he bought it, right, we could check it all out, see if he's reported anything if he bought it, we hear that there are new apartments, so let the media then investigate exactly those who are the loudest and all the others are trying to find a certain mistake. Maybe there's stuff like that, I don't know, but since the media is very up-to-date today, let's check and stuff, if a colleague Maras bought a new apartment. Whether he reported it or something, whether he bought a car or some pasture, I don't know, but let's check it out so we can figure out who these people are, what they're offering us, and why we have to bring these laws that go in favor of the citizens into this atmosphere that's constantly trying to divide people into good and bad, and those bad ones who have been replaced, this kind of law that was in force, in 2010 so that, not in 2010, when they came to the first constitutive session, they can fill in all-powered chairs and invent new ones, and it's the only program they've ever achieved in those four years, and they've still put us in charge of 80 billion kuna. So this story about this law, I think, needs to be finished as soon as possible to finally say, we bring this public administration closer to the citizens and these directors are people who will be in the system for a long time, so that they can do their jobs normally and qualityly, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144956	Okay, I'd like to ask you now just to invite your colleagues back to the assembly so that we can approach the vote on amendments because we've exhausted the debate and she's gone. Okay, well, since he's dropped out of the Most Representatives' Club, probably some of them have gone out to eat as much as I know them, so he'll be back later, so we'll be back at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes. ANNIGHT IN 11.25 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:29 AM]] Comrade Bacic, please. I'm voting on the first amendment of the government, so please join us. So we're voting on the first amendment of the government. We'll wait one more second because there's a colleague called Batinic. I find that we unanimously accepted from 76 votes the first amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Now we're going to the second amendment of the government, I'm putting it to the vote. I find that we unanimously accept it, 76 votes, and I vote and the third amendment of the government. And he was accepted unanimously by 76 and becomes an integral part of the final bill. We are now going to decide on the other amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, and we have conducted the statement earlier in the session and now we will vote on those amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first amendment of the Legislative Committee was adopted. The second amendment of the HSS and Democrats club was not accepted, so we must vote, please vote. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We are now going to the Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the amendment one has been accepted in the amended form, Amendment two has also been accepted in the amended form and Amendment number three has also been accepted in the amended form. We will now say a vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, please vote. I find that 77 votes are in favour, 9 votes against and most votes are passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144958	This will go to the following point: - Report on the implementation of the Constitution on the rights of national minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 for the needs of national minorities The Report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 37. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the report? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State Darko Neknic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144959	Thank you, Mr. President. So once again, I welcome all MPs and MPs, as the Vice-President has told you before you a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for 2017. During 2017 activities were systematically undertaken in the fields of education, employment and inclusion in economic life, health care, social care, spatial arrangements, housing and environmental protection, including national minorities in social and cultural life, status solutions to combat discrimination and help in the exercise of rights, improving the collection of statistical data and compliance of programmes with international standards, as well as agreements adopted in the field of human and minority rights. In order to improve all these rights, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted operational programmes for national minorities for 2017 at its meeting on 24 August 2017. - 2020. Furthermore, in May 2017, a one-year project by the Ministry of Administration of IPA TAIB in 2012 was completed to support the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which established an electronic system for monitoring and reporting the rights of national minorities at national, regional and local level. For the first time in drawing up this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law for 2017, the data were collected through that e-system. In August 2017, a project of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities was also completed, supporting national minorities at local level, financed by the IPA 2012 programme. The project provides for conditions for the active participation of national minority councils in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the development of its own local communities in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The report also showed political participation of members of national minorities in the regular local elections held on 21 May 2017, and you also have data on the representation of members of national minorities in state administration bodies, professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2017, which shows that the proportion of national minorities at a level of 3.34% is slightly less by 0.06% than it was in the previous year. So here are colleagues from other ministries who will certainly say something from their portfolio if there are questions or comments related to this report. What I might have mentioned, in the end, is that we can conclude that the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out a number of activities through the competent authorities in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and for this purpose, so 144.191.391,85 kuna was spent in 2017, which is an increase of just over 13 million kuna compared to the previous year 2016. Here, I think that's quite enough for an introduction, and there will certainly be questions on this subject, as well as comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144960	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is the first respected representative of Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144961	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask you if it is possible, Mr State Secretary, only to comment on the data, on the number of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration and the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so on 31.12.2016, the total number of registered members of national minorities in the respective bodies is lower by 31 employees compared to the end of 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144962	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144963	Thank you. So, the exact data that you have provided is less than 31 employees or 0.06%, and in the total number of civil servants and tenants. However, it should also be taken into account that the total number of civil servants and subsistence employees also decreased by 95 and 0.19%, respectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144964	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Veljak Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144965	Thank you. You finally mentioned that 144 million kunas were allocated to national minorities. I just want to point out that out of the 144 million, it's only $20 million for members of the Roma community. Of these 20 million kunas, half a million kuna is only for concrete projects, which means when you have 60 Roma settlements, then half a million kunas are not visible that something could be done or realized. And all those other funds were just... projects where the Roma community, or my Roma from this government and I are very much expected to address burning issues within Roma settlements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when you have 60 Roma settlements and you divide it by 500 thousand kuna, then it turns out somewhere more than, I don't know, 8 thousand kunas that you can't do anything concrete to make it visible in Roma settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144966	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, so the first on behalf of the HDZ MP Klu will speak to the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144967	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. In order to further improve the existing level of protection of the rights of national minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an operational programme for national minorities for the period 2017 to 2020 at its meeting of 24 August 2017. The operational programmes were designed for the Serbian, Italian, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Albanian and Roma national minorities, and the programme set deadlines and holders of implementation activities in the protection and promotion of national minorities. Why aren't some other small-scale operational programs they know about. Since the adoption of the 2010 Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we have today come to the conclusion that an electronic system for monitoring and reporting the rights of national minorities has been established at regional and local level. The government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself once a year to submit a report to this Croatian Assembly and I wish that had happened before this was the report for 2017. And this report, as well as reports from previous years, actually show in an overall way the spending of funds in the equal use of language and letters of national minorities, access to means of public communication, cultural autonomy, bilateral co-operation, housing care and return. And since the report is about the state budget, in fact, all those institutions and all those bodies dealing with these issues were involved in the drafting of this report and the present representatives of the ministries here in the Croatian Parliament are actually talking about how much they care about national minorities or the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Education and education in the letter and language of national minorities is conducted both in primary and secondary schools with language and letter teaching, which are served under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the special programme of the Ministry of Education according to those three already models, according to model a, b and c. It should also be said that a high degree of implementation of the constitutional law has been achieved and further progress has been made in the field of education and education of children, especially Roma national minorities, by including them at all levels of the educational system. The pre-school programme, i.e. pre-school education, the preparation programme for primary school, has proved particularly necessary for the Roma population of pre-school age, has shown good results and also points to the obligation to organise pre-school educational groups and I think that there are also financial resources provided. The report speaks of a continuous increase in the coverage of adult members of the Roma national minority in the descriptive programme throughout general and professional education, so in 2017 about 382 Roma actually passed such descriptive courses, which is an extremely good sign and it all costs about 700 thousand kuna. For the very National Strategy for Roma inclusion for the period from 2013 to 2020, more than 11 million kunas were spent, partly at the beginning I took part in this national strategy, not much, but we had one p parenting cooperation with Mr. Katazi. With the right to demonstrate its faith and to establish the religious communities of the Republic of Croatia, the contracts were committed annually to be paid out of the state budget for salaries, so that for the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the coordination of Jewish municipalities, the Islamic community in Croatia was granted an amount of 14.8 million kuna. In the Republic of Croatia, a high level of right to manifest their faith as well as the right to establish religious communities along with other members of that faith has been reached. When accessing public communications means, it should be noted that contracts between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are contracted to produce, co-produce and publish programmes intended to inform members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia in the languages of national minorities, including programmes for children of 1.8 million kuna, have been allocated for 34 radio emissions, electronic publications and 900 thousand kuna for 6 television shows. Here we could mention certain cooperations with local TV networks but it is well known to you all and I think that in all those areas where national minorities live more or less all local, local television stations participate in such educational and other series related to members of national minorities. As regards political participation of members of national minorities in the regular local elections held at the time on 21 May 2017, members of national minorities were guaranteed the right to select 310 members of representative bodies in a total of 156 units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government. A total of 308 members of the representative bodies were elected in a total of 154 units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government. National minorities had the right to propose, elect 61 deputy municipal and city mayors, municipal mayors and mayors or mayors, a total of 60 units of local self-government, regional and regional, elected 49 deputy mayors or mayors and 12 deputy mayors from the ranks of members of national minorities. As for ethnically motivated crimes and discrimination proceedings, it should be said that in the area of PPDS involving 11 counties, from Vukovar-Srijem County to, say, Zadar County in the area where 1.5 million inhabitants live, 86% of Croats, 8.6% of Serbs and 4.4% of other nationalities, 4 000 51 crimes were reported in those areas, which is less than 140 parts in 2016, and the state of public order and peace is also done from a 15% decline in violations or 1542 violations recorded as well as the return of displaced persons, the crimes which fall by 3.3%. The Ministry of the Interior implements preventive programmes, praiseworthy certainly, of Living Life without Violence, Together, I have a choice, We can together more, which certainly contribute to reducing criminal and criminal acts and strengthening tolerance in society and reducing impatience. A specific review in this Report is given with an emphasis on the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion, which was adopted in 2013, by 2020, as I said, in which activities are being undertaken with the aim of involving Roma. For this purpose, €25.6 million has been provided, and the funds of the state budget, the European Social Fund, FEAD and IPA have been used. The Ministry of Science and Education completes the database for the Roma National Minority on Roma Children's Education, providing FEAD-related nutrition for those children, for over 900 Roma children, the Međimurje County provides funds for the transport of pupils. The trend of increasing students involved in the system of secondary education, which should be particularly commended, has been ensured for the year around 19 scholarships for Roma students. In the area of employment and inclusion in economic life, 4777 members of the Roma national minority were registered, a decline in the registered number of unemployed was observed. In the field of health care is to improve the health of the Roma population, and to reduce the gap between Roma health status and the rest of the population, so Roma who have civil status in the Republic of Croatia have all the same rights or rights as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Those Roma who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia are treated under the Law on the Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be said that one part of the Roma in the Republic of Croatia is health-free, achieving health care on the burden of budget funds. A major step in the legislation of illegally built buildings has been recorded in the area of spatial planning and housing, as this was a major problem with Roma settlements, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning provided funds for the production of geodetic and architectural recordings. In the field of involvement in political life, it is precisely in the County of Međimurje that the Roma have two deputy chiefs, in Pribislavac and Petrian, and that they have consumed the right to one member in the municipality's representative body. The government has also established the Committee for Monitoring the Strategy itself, I suppose, on your initiative, Mr. Keatazi, where, in fact, in that composition, the Deputy Prime Minister, you, ten members of the Roma national minority, as well as ten members of the competent state bodies, are all due to better monitoring and coordination of the implementation of the National Strategy. However, it should also be said that Roma within the Roma community, and by Roma to other nationalities, they are unfortunately increased. So, 842 parts of the criminal offence were committed by Roma, a total of 1146 perpetrators of Roma national minorities to the detriment of 658 persons of other nationalities, and to the detriment of 232 legal persons, 154 criminal offences are within the Roma community itself, and 71 criminal acts are to the detriment of the Roma. The offence is a 1571 violation by a total of 1190 perpetrators. The 2017 Ombudsman's report discusses 277 complaints based on discrimination, of 277 complaints, 47 based on race, ethnicity or skin color, and the rest are related to age, sex, religion, health, disability, property, language, sexual orientation and birth identity. This report discusses violence in society, with special reference to members of national minorities, and I think this is the moment, since this is the 2017 Report, and we have had discussions on this and in 2018, I think that we should be careful here, especially representatives of national minorities, and not have different archaics about violence, so violence is based on any basis, and as such should generally be condemned and so should be treated and have effective means for the perpetrator. So if we do it on that national basis, I don't think that's good. If we look at violence itself, whether a member of a national minority, a man or a woman, a child or an old man, thus sanctioning such violence, violence can only be increased. We should be united in condemning violence against the perpetrator or victim, whether it's an individual or a group. In relation to criminal cases relating to discrimination and the grounds for discrimination under which these cases are conducted in 2017, four new cases have been adopted, only two of which are related to discrimination based on ethicality and others due to their national origin in relation to civil cases, 56 of which only 2 referred to discrimination on the basis of ethnicity. So what needs to be pointed out here in particular is that there is a perception in the public space that, on these issues, the discrimination of the Republic of Croatia is an intolerant country and that it is a great impatience towards national minorities, and this data actually disproves it. As far as bilateral cooperation itself is concerned, I'll only be brief. So RS has signed contracts with Montenegro, the Italian Republic, Hungary, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia, and Austria have taken over the state contract from '55. A year. Therefore, it should be said that the intergovernmental mixed committee concerning Serbia in 2017 did not meet only at the beginning of 2018, with Macedonia, except, for example, with Montenegro where certain co-operation was achieved at the county and local level because of the co-operation itself among students, students, as well as the protection of the immaterial heritage of the Croatian national minority of the Bokelic Navy. In 2017, I don't think there was any more intergovernmental mixed, mixed committee. As far as spending is concerned, it is at a level of 144 million divided by the Ministry of Science, Education, Culture, the Agency for Electronic Media, National Minorities Councils, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Councils and local level representatives. The national anti-discrimination plan is a strategic document by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia sets priorities based on analysis and state, proposes objectives and directs efforts in the protection of discrimination in the Republic of Croatia for a 6-year period, followed by an action plan as an operational document of the national plan itself. The HDZ Club will support this report. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144968	The next Club of Representatives is the national minority, and time will be shared by the respected representative and vice president of this high house Furio Radin and the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget for 2017 will be the theme of fellow Keatazi in the section concerning finance and money. I'm going to talk about the section relating to the first national minorities. To be clear, to be clear, I am not doing this to avoid the label of ethnobusiness that has been always nice to us lately, and the last one was a well-known singer who built his entire career on an ethnic or on a business basis, which is why he was banned from performing in many European countries, and now allegedly some candidates for the President of the Republic are running after him to gain his favor and certainly are not running behind him because of his tenoric skills to say so. No, I'm not afraid of it, and I'm not afraid of either those or those who take advantage of it. I'm going to talk about unfulfilled rights because they are the essence of everything, money is just a means. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted operational plans at its meeting on 24 August 2017, because if we want to talk a little more pragmatically about this Constitutional Law, we now need to talk about operational plans for the period 2017 to 2020, which sets deadlines and holders of implementing activities. The document is divided into two parts, general and special, for each specific national minority. There is also a previous document that is actually part of the integrated text on the work of the Government's Programme for the Resolution of the Rights of National Minorities. So he's part of the program, the government program. After that, the first report that was late is the second one that is now, which is now being prepared and which will be even more late. And it can be considered part of our Mediterranean mentality, which is so oriented orientatively fatalist, so what does that mean now if we're going to be 6 months or a year late. What is important is that the superficial inspection of such reports shows that the shifts in the implementation of these operational plans for which, I repeat, the pragmatic part of the Constitutional Law are minimal or non-existent. Despite the implementation report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the tightly related operational plans, there should be no great concentration without finding that the copy trap mechanism dominates mainly what they have achieved in the past, the county, as far as at least my region, or cities, or in some parts and states, and in some parts and states that were prior to the establishment of a sovereign Croatia in 1991. In short, what creates big problems is that there are at least us in our club that there are two kinds of actually representatives. Those who are forced to run around the ministries because simply no one responds to their phone calls to realize, of course, what has already been signed and those representatives of minorities who, where I belong, who believe that the Pacta sant servanda and what has been signed and signed to detail, should simply, simply, simply be realized. I've never, rather, received a call almost never from a minister or secretary of state to ask me what I think about what has been achieved so far, let alone what needs to be achieved. Look, it's very hard to say that, it's the second time I've talked about it that way because, if I'm talking like that, there's a reason because, as you know, I'm not one of those people who talks every five minutes. Why is it so, why aren't they responding? Because the operational plans in the drawers have been forgotten and neglected. Nothing or almost nothing moves, and I'm not going to apostrophe any ministry, but I'm going to say just that, let the operational plans get out of the drawers and let them be read. I'll finish this part of myself before I give Mr. Keatazi the word, a little bit atypically, the Prime Minister knows everything because I've handed him everything I've told you now I've given him twice, he knows everything, we've talked, I can say he agrees with me. For the minister, I don't know if they know or not, and I don't know if they've read the operational plans because it seems that way many times. We support the policy direction of Prime Minister Plenkovic, but we support our policies and the interests of our minority citizens even more strongly. There is therefore a conflict of interest between us in this case and individual ministries. And I have already delivered a compromise solution and I hope it will be accepted. I'm sorry to say all this, but time is running out, and as far as I'm concerned, it's not a figure of style, but the fact that we have to take what we're doing so far isn't so we run or walk together at least those last 400 meters. I'm just wondering if we're gonna be in any shape for that last round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144970	The Honorable representative of Kajtazi will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144971	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected representatives of the institution, respected colleagues and colleagues. In short, we must recognise and say that there has been an improvement in the working conditions and overall improvement of the position of national minorities. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that contrary to the applicable opinion that these allocations are not donations of national minorities in a way that does not correspond to social circumstances and the share of national minorities in our society. On the contrary, by looking at it, it can be said that it is too small. All funds have been spent in terms of purpose, programming and transparency and we have recorded a continuous increase in the isolation and rapidness of national minorities since the start of the term of office of this Government. Unfortunately, I've already said that's not enough. And secondly, it's unfortunately an additional... those in our society that would end national minorities, cancel if they didn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, I would like to say that a shift has been achieved but not enough around projects and funds targeted and towards concrete projects that improve the more developed areas of this project as infrastructure, investment in an area populated by national minorities representing minimal civil interventions of the central state, and such interventions affect both the majority and minorities. In this context, I would like to say that for the Roma National Minority Programmes, the central state has singled out 20 million kuna in the implementation of the budget and that by 2018 this has increased and we expect it to be in 2019. The same trend of growth is applicable to other national minorities, which is a prerequisite for open problems to be solved. In Međimurje, we are unfortunately witnessing what can happen if the problem is ignored, or if action plans and strategic documents do not cover certain financial plans. So it was in previous periods, which is why we have made the National Strategy for Roma inclusion, which ends next year a dead letter on paper with limited results in individual resolutions. However, it would be a mistake to say that the operational programme for national minorities is a document that we can so assess, i.e. it must be acknowledged that the modest and realistic objectives of the operational programme for national minorities have already produced certain results and that we expect to have completed most of the projects that have been launched since 2019. From this, I stress that we have finally launched a programme of living care and improving the living conditions of Roma for the first time, that we have completed the legalisation process and we are resolving property legal relations in Roma settlements as a prerequisite for their urbanisation that the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia KALI SARA in cooperation with local self-government units is already investing specifically in Roma settlements infrastructureically and that we will continue in this direction. It is a pity, however, that we have the greatest shifts in cooperation with bodies where leaders have felt a personal responsibility and a tendency to resolve the issue of minorities until those who do not think so bear any political or other responsibility if they engage less or less in the agreed commitments. The Committee for the Monitoring of the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion began to function after a longer break in 2016 but we still lack resources to work there. The commission sort of solves problems for which there is still no coordination or legal framework that specific ministries could do, and it is very important. That is why I have already stressed to both the prime minister and the ministers that we expect continued and significant support to help local self-government and individuals through the commission. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities headed by the Director is well-coordinated by most of the processes and provides significant support to minority, civil society, which also gives results. The Alliance for National Minorities has also followed this upcoming trend but we have also never had more interest and applications than in the previous period, and we believe that in the coming period we will get more support. In particular, I would like to highlight projects for the purpose of achieving cultural autonomy, which, with very few funds invested, give visible and clear shifts that the Roma feel. In conclusion, I'd like to say that all minorities next to... which I have praised cannot be satisfied with the results themselves because a large number of programmes are also repeated year by year without concrete results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For a large number of projects we are not familiar with until they are realised these minorities for which they are not always included. It continues to focus on so-called. ... projects and workshops while we are desperately lacking funds for concrete projects and from the mandate of one government to another we are transferring projects of urbanisation, completion of social homes, infrastructure in settlements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the 144 million kuna spent on the implementation of the constitutional law in 2017, 20 million relate to the Roma modal minority and of which the vast majority of the funds are invested in the mentioned... projects that leave very little room for more concrete and visible shifts in Roma settlements that are over 60 in our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have not invested in such projects in 2017, and we are just trying to change it. A small man, those in settlements, unfortunately very little or in no way feel the results of this report. And I would like to conclude with information that in 2017 we concluded with 8 Roma employees in the bodies of the state administration and government which, apart from stagnation in educational statistics, does not give hope that significant changes will soon be visible. It is my request that in the coming period we do more to employ Roma representatives, strengthen Roma councils and invest the more we invest in concrete projects and at the expense of various workshops and... to remove the causes of inequality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144972	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure by the respected representative Ante Babic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144973	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I assume you heard it or didn't hear it at first, so Article 7, Article 232, and Article 238, Article 7, which was not the subject of the debate. So fellow Furio Radin said, I'm not an ethnic businessman unlike some singers... A businessman called by some of the presidential candidates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is known that he alluded to Mr Mark Perkovic Thompson and the current president, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Since Furio Radin and the vice president of the Croatian Parliament took advantage and abused the Assembly's pay phone in an irresponsible, conscious and maligned manner. That's why I believe he's supposed to get actually a reminder from you and it hasn't got it. As a people, we have suffered certain labels for years, we do not need such labels, and so is the Vice President of the Parliament... Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144974	You've exceeded your time in 35 seconds, and I estimate no injured Rules of Procedure, so we'll move on. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144975	I thank the Vice President, the representatives of the ministries. For members of national minorities, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is the roof and most important legal framework in the exercise and application of minority rights. For the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, as we had the opportunity to hear in 2017, 144 million were spent which represents an increase compared to 2016, and this should be clearly said for this speaker. It is not to be ruled out that this is the 14th consecutive report submitted by the Government to the Parliament at the age of 15 since the application of the constitutional law, which prescribes a wide range of rights but still lacks its full implementation. The report discusses figures and figures in which areas are achieved satisfactory progress, which it is not, but I must say without measures and proposals to resolve and improve the situation. Unlike my esteemed colleague, Ante Babic, who summed up what was done, I'll tell you about what wasn't done. So the report certainly does not explain enough why in some segments, why there is no consistent application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in some segments. It continues to point out that minorities and their position are important and some of the moves and events in 2017 do not contribute, or have not gone as we speak since 2017. We certainly see positive shifts and steps in the adoption of operational programmes for national minorities, which is therefore a step towards improving the implementation of existing and raising levels of protection of minority rights with envisaged activities and deadlines. It is an opportunity to point out that in 2017 interethnic relations have therefore not changed significantly. The manifestations that are therefore to the Serbs and who want to be told that they, as well as their culture, language and letter, are not welcome in the Republic of Croatia, and at least their political action is not welcome in the Republic of Croatia. So a number of cases of damage and destruction of property were recorded, the sacral objects that we followed in 2017 through the table of violence. It is noted that cases of violence and hate speech against Serbs that occurred mainly in the former war-torn areas in 2017 have spread almost to all areas. In particular, they worry about statements and procedures that have characteristics of ethnic impatience by public figures and the lack of public conviction and sanctions for such treatment. In 2017 they marked hate shows against minority groups in general which were manifested in inappropriate speech and hate speech in public but also in acts of hatred versus what happened a few days ago, this now seems very benign. The problems still present and related to implementation, so when it comes to the official use of languages and letters, therefore, we still have resistance to the use of Cyrillic which was marked in 2017, while at the beginning of the bilingual panels, during 2017 on the existing and remaining bilingual plates of the court in Vukovar, I am talking about the county, municipal and criminal which also had Cyrillic inscriptions, are beautiful with the Croatian flag, the reason why the court plates are covered is the fact that on the existing plates with the latinic stand and the Cyrillic print called the court. So someone thought that the same effect could be achieved by beautifuling the contents of these panels, which, unlike their destruction, was not interpreted as a crime. Surely such an atmosphere and a low degree of tolerance have affected both members of the Serb minority and create a sense of fear from there and a reduced number of requests for the issue of personal documents in language and letter rather than indifference as stated in the report. The issue of equal and official use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter in the town of Vukovar is therefore not regulated in accordance with the law or finally settled despite the fact that the 5th anniversary of the publication of the census, based on which the Serb community, or 1/3 of the population in Vukovar, is entitled to the official use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. We recall that in August 2015, the decision of the majority in the city council of Vukovar adopted a statute and a constitutional decision on the use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter which is still in force today and which is not in accordance with the prescribed rights of the Serb national minority as seen by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The statute is still in force even though it is 14. 4. 2016 The Human Rights Committee of the Croatian Parliament launched a procedure to assess the constitutionality of the constitutional provisions that treat the need for Serbian language which has not been resolved so far. Of the 27 units of local self-government to comply with the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, it is evident that the units of local authorities have largely fulfilled their obligations, especially in the report, the municipality of Plaški, which has fulfilled this in this year, while the Municipality of Gracac has not yet complied with the provisions of this statute on the use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter in accordance with the Constitutional Law. The municipality of Donji Kukuruzari has a harmonised statute with the law but no progress has been made with regard to the application, no bilingual signboards of the municipality's bodies on the same building. The city of Vrbovska has a consistent status with the law but no progress has been made in applying bilingual signboards, therefore, to the city administration. In addition to what I have already pointed out, it is important to know that the Ministry of Administration has issued instructions on the obligation to comply with the law but the public institutions, or Croatian roads, do not want to respect it. For this reason, even today in the premises of units of local self-government where the right to use bilingual names of places is acquired especially in Cyrillic, this provision of the Constitutional Law does not apply, it is justified to ask the question of how is it possible that a state-owned company does not implement the Constitutional Law? The use of languages and letters in procedures and in front of low-level administrative bodies is unchanged compared to the previous period, the report states that members of national minorities do not use the right to use minority language due to the lack of interest of members of national minorities, with this finding sure that we cannot agree. So we have not achieved an adequate degree of social tolerance and respect for diversity in order to consume these individual rights so that people do not create discomfort, on the contrary, the increase of intolerance in society leads to fear and concrete manifestations of hatred that we have had the opportunity to see. When it comes to education and education, according to an official report in school 2016/2017, 3607 Serb national minorities were educated at all levels and by all educational models in 67 institutions. There remains a problem with unresolved school registrations, so the Serb community has been unsuccessfully trying for years to register schools in such a way as other minority communities education by model A, so as Czech Republic, Hungary or Italy. The Vukovar-Srem County is about primary schools in Negoslavci, Borovo, Brshadin, Trpinja, Bobota and Markusica. In places where teaching takes place according to model A, or entirely in Serbian and Cyrillic scripts with the obligation to learn Croatian language in the same number of hours or for those who do not know it is therefore a programme approved by the Ministry of Science and Education. Despite the obligations arising from the Law on Breeding and Education due to the obstruction of the authorities in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County and the lack of interest of the Ministry of Science and Education, this problem has not been solved in 2017. This issue of school registration in the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter was also covered by the Operational Programme, and it is envisaged that deadlines that are therefore not being implemented and that this is one of the 4 most important questions for the SDSS Club are certain that we will insist that this issue be resolved because nothing new is actually sought but a solution as well as other national minorities. We certainly welcome the formation of a specific and independent sector for national minorities and its leader, whose efforts and work can make us very happy. They would be even more satisfied if the independent sector, as its name says, enjoyed more independence, which I am sure would mean more results for minority education. When it comes to national minority councils, we still have several problems, so one of them is that they are not sufficiently informed and not involved in the decision-making process, and it is, and is certainly marginalised by the role of the council, the problem is in unequal financing of council work so that the funds for their work are secured from the JLS budget and there are great differences in the amount of support granted to them. One of the major shortcomings in the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities is because the standard of liability and sanctions for those who do not comply. So we have cases that in cities and councils there are significantly higher funds allocated while others are insufficient and therefore, or do not exist at all, especially in the areas of the PPDS. Another problem that the council points to is elections for the councils that are not in line with the local elections, we have talked about this before, and certainly from this time distance we have had the opportunity to see in the 5th month elections, so where we have had one complete media unaccompaniedness or not reporting at all about the conduct of minority elections. The conclusion would be that the financing of the councils should be evened at the level of the state, in order that it rather than depends on the leadership's will, as well as to even the time of elections for technical, economic and other legitimate reasons. The participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the administration and at national and local level and in judicial authorities, I said something about it. Therefore, the share of national minorities among public authorities employees remains significantly lower than their share in the total population. Employment plans carried out earlier years in order to achieve these 5.5 were ineffective, on the contrary, in the time for which the share of minorities in the total number of employees was passed has been further reduced. Therefore, the report concluded that a reduction in the number of members of national minorities as a reason for this highlighted a reduction in the total number of employees, a failure to call on Article 22 and a decision to ban new employment. Despite the ban, there are new employment, but not for the benefit of national minorities. There has been no significant progress in achieving the right of national minorities to take advantage of employment in state administration bodies, judicial and administrative authorities and there is no adequate mechanism for monitoring the exercise of that right. When it comes to public media access, despite the small shifts and the increase in budgets that are insufficient, the years-long problems repeated year-on-year remain unresolved. There is insufficient representation of national minorities in programmes at annual level, at national, regional and local level. No emissions in the languages of national minorities have been realised, excluding two emissions, and there are no redundancies for minorities. As far as housing is concerned, although the report mentions that investment in return infrastructure is still not sufficient and as far as funding is concerned over the past few years, a decline in national financing of housing has been observed. It is these things, like many other circumstances, that have stalled the return, that we also pointed to in the discussions on the budget both this and last year. The fact is that the return does not have or cannot be completed without the provision of additional appropriations. And to conclude the increase in funds is secured and commendable, however, no implementation of the scope and the way this organic law, in view of its specificities, is yet to be achieved, deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144976	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richenberg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144977	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues before us seem to be the 14th report of this type, which, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, tries to sum up what all states are doing to meet the obligations of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the state budget for that purpose. When we look at a total of 140 million about 140 million kunas spent for different purposes, it sounds very impressive. 18, 19 million euros in rare cases in the EU, rarely having such a issue resolved by constitutional law at all because in many countries this issue is not even raised because it has long been absorbed by the level and degree of civil, general, human rights where autonomy of minority, ethnic and linguistic groups is actually realized in some other ways. They don't have to be protected by constitutional law. However, it is also the fact that there is no single standard, criteria or criteria at EU level, and in this sense a very important initiative has recently emerged as a precedent, which has raised 1.3 million signatures and thus has become the official EU citizens' initiative recognised by the European Commission, it is the Minority Safe Pack initiative. It is a total of 9 issues that the European Commission will have to demonstrate and develop different models of protection of the rights of ethnic and linguistic communities in Europe in its new composition after October this year. Croatia has something to offer here because it has the experience of constitutional law, so in a legitimate sense it has a great framework and in practice it has a whole series of very good solutions that can offer as some standards and others, but it is also a fact that we must not look up to those of us who are worse, but if possible, our system that we have built, which we are building constantly improve. This report, which is before us, generally taking it correctly, is a general report that has a lot of data, at first glances you can't seem to know what to object to. But on the other hand, there are a whole series of issues to be asked, let's say after 14 years, one project should be launched in which it is necessary to evaluate what associations and members of national minorities themselves in the Republic of Croatia think about the implementation of constitutional law. It would actually be a real reading, to see all these money spent and whether the members of the national minorities themselves see progress in achieving their rights, stagnation or not give God back. Here is a number of rights that the Croatian legal framework has opened when it comes to the issue of the rights of national minorities, let's say we very much praise this system that allows for the selection of deputy mayors, mayors and mayors in certain units of local and regional self-government where the number of members of national minorities crosses a certain percentage. However, a qualitative analysis would show that it is one decoration. In many cases, deputies have absolutely no authority, in many cases their work comes down to protocol tasks. They are not among those deputies who directly receive from mayors, mayors or mayors certain important powers and do not carry out these tasks. It's a rare number of cases that it's actually a formal position-making thing. We have recently an eclant case in public mentioned where the chief, where the deputy head of a municipality doesn't come to work at all for months, but he's registered and works as a professional. So how effective is this system that we've inauguration. Have we installed any protective mechanisms that would really give these people some opportunities, then some responsibility? Furthermore, it is very interesting that this report provides a general positive picture, and we know that when it comes to rights, human rights, and then particularly about the rights of national minorities, an extremely important perception, an experience. The experience of those whose rights are rightful. There is no doubt that in the last 5 years the level of hate speech, impatience, conflict in a society that promotes someone's national, ethnic, racial origin and these are cases that we face in public, they are more and more frequent and end even with violence. I'm afraid there's going to be more and more because hate speech leads nothing but acts of hate. This is the 2017 report, it turns out that there are no criminal acts motivated by hatred on the basis of someone's national, ethnicity. Let's say we have a whole chapter that talks about criminal acts and proceedings related to discrimination on page 63, so there's not a single word actually about procedures, but only to be sure what the state of criminality is in areas of particular national interest. What difference does it make? We can only say that there is a percentage that, in which members of national minorities participate, a certain number of crimes can be more motivated by these motives. And what about the crimes in Zagreb, what about the threats in public space, what about the hate speech in the media, what about specific cases of committing hate crimes? We don't have any information here. Furthermore, when we see what the government's bodies are and what the edifications of the attorney general are, it's heaven and earth. The government authorities report that they are doing everything according to the law, that they meet all the obligations provided for, they are praised for the amounts they spend for certain purposes, but the attorney general has been tirelessly warning that the situation is getting worse and worse. Associations of national minorities warn the situation is getting worse and worse. The National Minorities Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia warns that the situation is getting worse and worse. In this document on page 56, the Council says, draws attention to the competent ministry, pardons, the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2017 assesses the satisfactoryness of the cultural autonomy of national minorities, while in areas of the exercise of the right to official and public use of language and letters, the right to access to public media, the role of councils and representatives, there are still obstacles and difficulties in implementation, and then follows several paragraphs in which the explicits are mentioned in concrete cases of pressure, threats, demands that a minority magazine be abolished, judicial proceedings conducted in that case where courts have rejected requests to abolish this inappropriate pressure on human rights and freedoms. In the council, representatives of national minorities, all MPs in the Croatian Assembly representing national minorities, this body is relevant when it comes to the assessment of the real impact of the implementation of the constitutional law and their assessments are negative. When it comes to the presence of topics and the rights of national minorities in the media, the assessment is very bad. On HRT, national minorities are forced into ghettos, these are two thematic emissions intended for members of national minorities. The purpose of the public service is not only to inform one part of the public, and these are members of national minorities about what national minorities are doing. The purpose of the public service is to meet all viewers and listeners, so the majority ethnic community with what national minorities are doing to reduce prejudice, to reduce the level of mutual ignorance and then to mean both fear and potential action against each other, this is unfortunately not happening to us because the balance offered by HRT assessing its own work shows that the number of minutes devoted to national minorities is critically small. I'd say scandalous kid. The assessment of the advice for national minorities is that these minutes are mainly used to attack representatives of national minorities, so that the whole national minorities are made fun of or to promote information that is at scandal and gossip level, that is not the role of public service. About a million and 700,000 kunas go to local radio stations and local, television, and it is generally estimated that they report much better and participate in the public reporting business of what national minorities do and how they live. Of the 140 million kuna, only 22% of the funds go directly to achieve cultural autonomy. So these are the funds available to associations based on the tenders and projects they have reported. But those 22% serve infrequently in order to fully differentiate this whole story of the care of the Republic of Croatia for its national minorities. These funds try to prove that they spend too much and are actually spent far too little because real problems are directed at them relatively little money. And this case recently in Međimurje shows by one, that the role of local self-government in many cases is crucial, that local self-government leaders, including their councils, are obliged to address the local problems of all their inhabitants and that means minority members, that means if the problems are higher levels, that they have to solve them according to special action plans and that means that they have to plan the funds, that means that they have to report on the procurement of ministries that have funds for these purposes and a large number of ministries in this sense of good will offer funds but they are looking for an action plan, so the plan in which these funds will be spent, and then what happens, most of them have no action plans, those they have, half of them do not use at all and do not withdraw funds at all. So no one imposes obligations and burdens on a small municipality that it cannot bear but is offered professional assistance from state institutions, minority associations, ministries and financial assistance, now it is only a question of how it is used. And will they really work on the welfare of their citizens or will they use it and abuse it for political purposes. There are a number of good and positive examples throughout Croatia where local self-governments are working hard and are able to achieve very high results, and this should be done to make sure that those who do not know, let's say, the most positive examples are in Slavonia. How is it possible that some Slavonian municipalities, therefore environments like Belišče, know and can and others do not know and cannot? So is it at the end of the world to go to Slavonia and ask your fellow mayors and mayors how they do it, what they did to legalize the settlements when we are talking specifically about the case of the Roma national community that is most pregnant, it has the biggest and most pronounced problems and as long as the Roma community is bad, we must all be bad, or we must all feel bad. So, what did they do to legalize, what they did to arrange the local infrastructure, why don't they take the trash and drive it everywhere else and when it's piled up, people blame themselves? Why don't you work more on the sanitary, health conditions, why aren't there hospitals in these Roma settlements, no kindergartens? Why are they just sending in, like, contact cops? Why does it always have to be a scandal and a problem and a fight to get someone to act? So there are positive examples and those who experience negative ones can look up to these better and better quality cases. All in all, the state of protection of minority rights relative to previous years is slowly collapsing. We must all be aware of this, which is being warned by relevant institutions from the Ombudsman, different national minority councils, minority associations, national minority councils. No one is interested in making this worse than just improving itself. There's funding, there's will, and I'm sure we can coordinate that positive approach well, but we have to work hard. And to those who spread the word of hatred, tell them where they belong. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144978	The next Club of Representatives of that SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, only with one, this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities could be described, sent in only one sentence, and that is to quote one of our colleagues. We're standing on a line we'll never get in the way. It's a finished quote. And it's something that's actually, from the perspective of someone who's in opposition pretty hard to talk about. So, on the one hand, we should be critical about the situation especially in these most fundamental parts of human rights, the state of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia in a situation where the Club of National Minorities is part of the ruling majority and you are in danger of any takeover over the line that I was just talking about, in fact, putting you in danger of being alone, let's say that someone who provides a better negotiating position to representatives who support the government in the debate with the rest of that government, and on the other hand you feel like some kind of human and political and any other duty to say something about it. In this report there are two types of rights, I would say they are visible and invisible. Visibles cost a little, but they're obviously a lot irritated, and invisibles cost a lot, but they're a little irritated. And my impression is that the government is doing much better in these invisible rights than in those visible rights. That is why we also had a discussion of a colleague from the SDSS who spoke about the use of language and letter not in Vukovar, which is one special case but also in all other municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia which, under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, would have to have equal use of the language and letters 20 years ago. Besides, I know how much I've had, how many obstacles I've faced, and some, in some ways, implementing this law. Representatives from the SDP Club will vote on their conscience on the adoption of a conclusion that accepts this report. In fact, there is no reason not to vote in favour of the report because it is relatively correct and it has apostrophe of some of the problems that we are aware of, and on the other hand, voting for this report without a reaction actually turns out that we are dealing with the existing situation. Therefore, in the vote, we will vote each way he believes we should. As far as the other segments of this report are concerned, I don't even want to talk about the allocations, about the funds, I don't even want to mention this example of the commissioner, the deputy chief of national minorities who didn't come to work because the mayor of Split didn't come to work either. So, not the deputy in one municipality that has no authority but the mayor of another city in Croatia, so almost 4 years later he was re-elected mayor, I mean from 2009 to 2013, and neither does he, that he was a representative who didn't come to the assembly, and I also don't want to single out particularly some segments. So, this is the 14th report, and I have my own, as the art skating says mandatory characters, it has a certain artistic impression, it's technical value, and our assessment is, about this kind of law is good for us and it's not fully implemented. What's visible and what might actually irritate, in alleged signs, we've put most of that in the seal, we compensate it with a little bit more money, so these don't get too loud, and that's about it. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities should actually be implemented for the sake of Croats, not for members of national minorities. I think the majority people must become aware of what it's like to be someone, so now we can speak Serbian, Roma, Italian, Hungarian or not to count further in Croatia. And that what we do not experience as members of the majority people, nor do we feel that someone else is experiencing because of ourselves or our fellow countrymen to react to it a little more and better. So let's show that basic human solidarity and, after all, we're aware that this law has not been passed by minority members. In 2002, 120 of them appeared to me to be representatives of at least 110 of them. That what they write in this law most of it is done by other EU countries, including, of course, certain specificities that are only present with us. And therefore, it would be good to read the first articles of this law on this occasion to remind them of what Croatian representatives said back then in 2002 that this law meant to them. In particular, he would read Article 3(2) in particular: Ethnic and multicultural diversity and a spirit of understanding, respect and tolerance contribute to promoting the development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's about the entire Republic of Croatia, our common country, all its citizens, regardless of their nationality. In Article 4(1) and (2), each citizen of the Republic of Croatia shall be free to declare that he or she is a member of a national minority in the Republic of Croatia, the right to exercise alone or together with other members of that minority or, together with members of national minorities, the rights and freedoms laid down by this constitutional law and other minority rights and freedoms prescribed by another law. Members of national minorities shall be granted the same as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia the rights and freedoms established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the rights and freedoms prescribed by this constitutional law and special rights. Paragraph 4, any discrimination based on membership of a national minority shall be prohibited. Members of national minorities shall be guaranteed equality against the law and equal legal protection. Article 4 is prohibited from taking measures which alter the proportion of the population in areas of resident persons belonging to national minorities, which are aimed at making it difficult to achieve or restrict the rights and freedoms laid down by this constitutional law and specific laws, etc. So, all of these MPs voted, supported and put together as their political programme. However, the atmosphere in some parts of Croatia or from some groups of Croatian citizens wants to bring us back a few decades at a time when they are or may be in the future, for some of the problems that the objective state encounters, it is always the second and different. This is actually the right point, the topic of the agenda to think of a sendable but actually quite true video of the top list of surrealists that I'm going to try to convince or read in a few sentences. I quote, “Unfortunately, all the news that has come to us today speaks of a great danger that has prevailed over our land. The danger we all know is called peace. Unresponsible individuals, and somewhere in a group of people, are suspending fire and thus seriously threatening the innocent population with a peaceful state, which would be a disaster for some parts of our country. The danger of peace endangers every port of our social life, threatens real disaster, tension in the people rises from hour to hour, it's madness, free people walk dangerously in the environment. How do you behave in case of peace? First, wake up at 6:30, kiss your wife and children, and wish them a “good morning. ” Second, do not panic to find a ride to the workplace. Third, work at work with other colleagues job from 7 to 15 or when it's working time. Fourthly, in most order to return home and preferably to lunch, five, dinner at night, turn on the light and open the rolls. I would add two more points, six, not to beat Serbs, gays, gypsies and others and seven, not to destroy the symbols of others and different ones." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144980	Now we're going to move to an individual debate that has been attended by a respected representative, Stevo Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144981	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected 23 Croatian national minorities. You are a flower, you are a decoration of Croatian society, your culture, your language, and what you do in Croatia helps Croatian society so much that we are recognizable and we have become the image of multiculturalism, we have become the image of co-existence after one of the most terrible wars of II. svt. The war. We became those who convey peace, truth, tolerance in their society. We, in 2017, singled out our modest resources, from our budget 144 million. Imagine, we even increased the funds intended for you in the hope that we would help you even more than ourselves so that someone might not feel hurt or threatened. I'm particularly pleased that you're making a smart investment. especially those national minorities who make contact with the majority people where they are respected, respect their environments but cannot help but notice that representatives of certain national minorities when this topic is in progress in their finals, that they do not listen to the final debate, they did not want to look into their conscience but went out of this assembly just to hear what the majority representative of the Croatian people told them. I am the voice of that silent majority who will never speak here because they are gone, because one of those minorities destroyed them, decimated them, destroyed the entire line of last-war names. They talk here from this pay phone, talk about the dangers in Croatian society, talk about violence, hate speech, attacks on their minority, talk about a catastrophic predication of their future and what they represent. Why do they say that? What's their problem? Do they suffer from remorse? No, I don't. They did not face their past but continued to transfer responsibility to the majority of the people the same ones who tried to enslave, destroy, subdue, commit and suppress by whom. They are the same ones who live in their lies from Dobraica Cosic, Grashanina and beyond. The Serbian community, the Serbian National Council, which represents our distinguished colleague Milorad Pupovac against whom I applied on Friday for possible complicity and concealment of the murder of Dr Ivan Schreter in the Camp of Buca, for his cooperation with the executioners of Dr Ivan Schreter, whom I came to with severe torment after many years, but we will also get results if the rule of law works in its own way. As for the Serb national minority, I welcome them, I welcome those honest and valuable people in Slavonia who are working in this fierce sun and atmospheres, working on the Croatian country, who contributes, I welcome those villages that do not mention the minority Serb, I welcome my Mirk, the mechanic from Ade, thank him, he is a good master, he has well fixed the tractor, a decent man, I welcome those who helped him, I welcome many others in other villages, there are honest, honest ones. I won't go to Trpinj to those who drove the dead in the bagger spoons, so one of them went half-lived out, so they beat him up and brought him back, such a representative of the Serb minority going to visit, to prison, he doesn't go to these peaceful Croatian citizens, our friends, no, to them no, but to these yes. If I could just look at how much resources are being allocated, I'm telling you that these peaceful, honest, valuable aren't on any of the lists, but these others, maybe you will, or some of theirs who have been paid for what some of them have done. I've been stuck for too long in one minority, I have to move quickly to another, but the problem is that the representative ran away, didn't want to hear what I have to say, because I'm Steve Culey, I'm a Roma ambassador you won't believe, there's exactly a group of Croatian Roma who told Steve, so at least you be our voice in the Croatian Parliament when we can't get there, and I'm going to read what's bothering them, and I'm going to protect our Italian national minority, especially you Furio, you know I will. This is how the National Coordination of the Councils of the Roma National Minority in the Republic of Croatia, the Vinograd Road, Slavonski Brod. Slavonski Brod, 11.11.2013, Committee for the Decision of Conflict of Interest, subject of Parliamentary Representative Veljko Kajtazi, 27.12., Association of Kali Sara, representative of the Parliamentary Representative Veljko Kajtazi, at the 66th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12.12.2012, decided to grant 5 million kuna to the Associations of the Serbian National Council, the Roma National Council and the Democratic Union of Hungary. At an extraordinary cabinet meeting, five million are allocated, out of the 23 national minorities, only three national minorities receive these funds. And why only three? Well, because at that point, the three national minorities needed SDP and Milanovic to carry out certain actions through them. Furthermore, there are a lot of pounds and more documents for our esteemed Mr. Kajtazi, who represents a Roma-threat national minority and despite all the funds he has received, there he managed to get four apartments, from Budapest, Gorica and to Zagreb two, fighting for his Roma Croatian people. I wouldn't, however, he was reported for a conflict of interest from his fellow countrymen who, like him, represent and who are calling for some counter-protest in Međimurje. Is he behind it morally and responsible for what he's trying to do? Mr Furio, the question to you whether you felt sorry or wrong for your countrymen when you did not get any of these five million Croatian kunas, did you ask then Prime Minister Zoran Milanović, stop, and where I am in this story, where our soil is, and where these others are of 23 national minorities that I welcome again, who are valuable, honest, love Croatian people, come to Vinkovic's autumn, imagine you Vinkovsky autumns, so that is the summation of all cultures and national minorities of Croatia that come to Vinkovec and the Vinkovci autumns show their culture, their costume, their tradition, dances and dictions, songs and no one does not mind, but only one national minority, which is the most endangered in Croatia has never come to Vinkovki autumn, and Vinkovci are encoved, they are bound with small towns. No, they don't dance in the world's largest round of shocks in the Vinkovci square, no, they dance somewhere far away, but in Croatia they don't. In Croatia, there are only Croatian kunas, and once again I welcome all representatives of 23 national minorities, as well as their members and fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144982	Thank you. The final one will now be spoken on behalf of the rapporteur, Honorable Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to refer to the presentation of Honorable Agent Goran Beus Richembergh, not present here, but I have to say. He said that the position of national minorities, especially their security, is being threatened, that it is getting worse and worse, and that this report, in this respect, is being made up of a bit unsuspecting and unskilled and not talking about the true state of the national minorities. It could always be talked about how the report is made up, as you yourself know the taste of individual reports of different ministries and other bodies, and then perhaps sometimes you can see that there is some kind of mechanical merger and it can certainly be some kind of technical disadvantage. But if he had read all of this report, he would have seen that on page 97 there were some data on, the Ministry of Hate Crimes, so it's the only thing that has been stated here when it comes to security, some MPs have been talking about it, but it explicitly states here that in 2017 a total of 25 crimes have been reported qualified as a hate crime. Compared to 2016, 35 such crimes were recorded, so there was a reduction in the number of hate-motivated crimes by 28.5%. It's not the point, so it's a good thing it's less, it's best if they're not at all. However, it is constantly working to sanction such offences and precisely because of numerous proceedings and judgments taken against the perpetrators of such criminal offences, I quote, from the previous period, as from other preventive activities aimed at strengthening the awareness of citizens and the need to report such offences is due to this reduction. I believe it will be less or less in the next period. Of these 25 hate-motivated crimes, 20 or 80% of them have been successfully resolved. Mr. Richembergh, and others often call for it to be so in recent years, say this is the last few years that there has been a significant deterioration in the situation, we have until a few years ago had another government, although in that period it was all wonderful and beautiful then it would be impossible for everything to be dark and black now. So there were problems then, there were problems now and we have to work on their solving, but that black-and-white picture that in one period was all bright and beautiful, and that now it's dark it's just not true. That's what the data says, but also common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144984	We have one replica, a respected representative and Vice President Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144985	Well, actually I remember that piece of Mr. Richembergh where he said that the report which report was good, and then he moved on to, uh, the taste of certain things. I'm also saying, you know how much I appreciate you, that the report was well done, I think it's.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... it says in Italian, so the ambassadors have no guilt for what they have left of the ministries to put together in this report. I was talking about how many ministries didn't actually get away with it, getting out of their drawers of plans, but I take that opportunity just to ask you one thing, Mr. Katic. When it comes to damages that one minority e.g. Roma Minority He works in Međimurje, I'd like to know if we quantify those damages in the money which is the difference between...? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144986	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144987	Can I just finish the question? No, not well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144988	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144989	I didn't hear the question, so I didn't realize it, I don't think a national minority is doing any harm but people by name and last name, so I'm saying that we always name people by name and by name who do crimes, violations or behavior against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144990	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144991	Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 for the needs of national minorities. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 for the needs of national minorities is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 78 for, 11 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144992	Now we move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Foreign Law, first reading, P.Z. 354 The promoter shall be the GOAS and HSU Representatives Club based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State and the most resilient colleagues and colleagues who are still here. It is one by the number of articles of a small law that may potentially produce significant effects not directly, but it would say indirectly in creating a more tolerated, civil atmosphere that generally promotes and takes care of the human rights of all. So, it's about amendments to the Foreign Law, and we're going to wait a little while until my colleague, Radin, finishes his conversation. All right, well, I know that he didn't quite hear the end, so this is about amendments and additions to the existing Foreign Law in two points, i.e. intervention in two articles, in particular Article 5 and Article 38 of the existing law. [[Intruder: Can we allow the respected representative Pusic to speak?]] In Article 5, the existing Law is defined, defined by a situation where, for reasons of national security, a stranger refuses or ceases to stay, or a stranger is expelled. This article defines that the legal provision in that Decision will be cited without an explanation of the reasons for the adoption of that Decision. Our proposal, therefore the proposal for these amendments and additions, is that, instead of without an explanation as set out in the existing Law, it is done with a written explanation, in other words, that a decision which for reasons of national security refuses to stay or ceases to be a stranger, or that a party is expelled will state a legal provision with a written explanation of the reasons which have been decisive for the adoption of that Decision. I'll explain it briefly. Some of the remarks, including the statement of the Government which does not accept this, these amendments and additions, were that since this is a matter of national security, it would have to be a violation of some of the rules of secrecy, but the argument against the fact that this written explanation does not need to state the information considered or which has been destabilised as a secret, therefore it is necessary to give instructions on how to address the Government's commission or the Court as provided for in the existing law, and some written document should be submitted which allows the person subject to such a decision to appeal, because the existing law provides for the possibility of appeal, even more than anticipated it at two levels, however, if you are thrown out of the country or do not allow you to enter the country, you will find it difficult to use those institutions of appeal or appeal to such a decision if you do not have it on the basis of which you do so. Therefore, by avoiding or abandoning everything it is, there is any mark of secrecy still possible to the person subject to such a decision, that this written explanation, or written document, on the basis of which such a person can then complain about such a decision. The second article to be amended or to be followed is Article 38, where it is said that a third-country national who does not fulfil the conditions for entry under the Schengen Borders Act will be refused entry into the Republic of Croatia, on which the Ministry of Police becomes competent to control the crossing of the state border by means of a decision. The solution shall be taken without hearings of third-country nationals and so on, except when it comes to unaccompanied minors. Our proposal is to bring the solution without hearings, to make the solution with a preliminary hearing of third-country nationals. Why? First in reason and Government, which rejects these proposals, it is said that it is not known whether such a solution, therefore the hearing of a person who is thus refused to enter the country whether anywhere is practiced, I know from personal experience that it is being practiced, so you can be refused entry into the country or at least question entry into the country, but you are being talked to. Therefore, such a decision may also be amended on the basis of this conversation. There are a number of formal legal reasons, let's say someone enters the country from which they need a visa, so there's no visa, or there's no valid passport, or anything like that, it's something that's automatically happening, but there's also the possibility that there's a person who meets all the formal legal conditions to get to her without any conversation and without any hearing, to refuse her the right to enter the country. This opens up space with various arbitration assessments, and various cultural, racial, ethnic, religious and similar prejudices, to enter into the legal system or the functioning of an institution called... profiling or defining a decision based on the prejudices that exist towards a particular nation, race and so on, and in order to avoid such a situation, we believe it is important to discuss with the person who has been refused entry into the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even those who have no visa or no valid passport, it is logical that at the border you will tell them you do not have a visa because of this you cannot, and you need, you cannot enter, or you do not have a valid passport. If a person has all of this, and still refuses the right to enter the country, talking to such a person is minimally required by some standards of civilised functioning of institutions. This amendment and supplementation concerns the Foreign Law and refers to foreigners. I would say that, of course, is important because the fact that we behave and behave in these situations is important, but important for another reason. Because when you release a certain type of practice or a certain type of behavior like this on a small door, it will easily spread to non-foreigners, it will easily spread to other groups of citizens, it will easily spread into a form of organisational culture. I'm the government, no one asks you anything, what I say is going on and there's no talking. It is the defence of course of people who would potentially come to Croatia as a site, but I think even more important defense of our own institutional culture. Our own way of conduct and relations between institutions and citizens, between those who represent the authorities and those who address them. And that is why we believe that this law which is really small in this regard and perhaps regulates a small segment and not a dramatic segment of our legal regulation. As far as political cultures are concerned, and as far as relations between institutions and citizens are concerned, the general ways in which institutions see, treat and treat citizens is more potentially important than only these amendments and additions that we have proposed here. Let me also say that the parent board, therefore the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which is the parent of these amendments and additions, supported this law and very detailedly discussed it, there is also a record and a written trail of debate that has been conducted there and where some of these things that I have repeated here are also said. The government has not accepted these amendments and additions, and I suggest, on behalf of the promoters, of course, that you consider them anyway, they are not dramatic, but I say they contribute to a positive institutional culture in Croatia that will eventually be used to all of us or to the head depending on how we develop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144994	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the Prime Minister want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I am opening a debate, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, the priority and position of the HDZ is the security of the Republic of Croatia and the security of all Croatian citizens. And from these positions, we believe that we cannot accept the proposal of the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU on amendments to the Foreign Law. It is proposed to amend Articles 5 and 38 of the existing Foreign Act in this proposal. Article 5 states in a decision which, for reasons of national security, refuses or ceases to be a foreigner or is expelled, a legal provision will be cited without an explanation of the reasons which have been decisive for the decision being taken and the proposer shall nevertheless request that a written explanation be given in that case. I would repeat here which reasons are, therefore, the reasons for national security for which it is rejected, so when the security of the Republic of Croatia or the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is compromised, and that assessment is done by our Security and Intelligence Agency, which is used in that assessment by the classified data, which uses data that it exchanges with other agencies to the security agencies of our partner or allied states and which it cannot simply expose because it would then expose either sources or national security itself. And therefore, of course, we know that our agency also has parliamentary supervision and civil oversight, so it is in the system where the work of the agency is supervised and through this way that it is in line with democratic standards, but we cannot compromise or bring legal acts that will loosen, weaken national security and the safety of Croatian citizens. That must be our priority. So respect for human rights absolutely but primarily respecting the human rights of our citizens to security that they can simply live safely in the Republic of Croatia and if there is a threat to that security then it is the duty of state institutions to protect Croatian citizens, it is her priority, it is the first thing a state institution must do. And therefore go to open up the data in which certain information, which is the reasons, all that our Security Agency is doing, opens up, exposes, that we could then actually face putting that national security at certain risk, is not acceptable because it would endanger the safety of our citizens. For this reason, we cannot accept this proposal. Clearly, there are mechanisms that can also challenge such a decision by the competent institutions, there is a first degree and a second degree, so it ends in a administrative process, so there is a mechanism to ensure that democratic standards are respected. There is, of course, what I said before and supervision of these institutions. And the Parliament has, of course, one important role to play. But we must put the safety of the Croatian state and the safety of Croatian citizens first. With the second proposal, Article 38 says to a third-country national who does not meet the conditions for entering the prescribed Schengen border code, he will refuse to enter the Republic of Croatia on which the ministry becomes responsible through the police station to control the crossing of the state border, a solution is made. The decision shall be taken without a hearing of third-country nationals unless a minor is accompanied. The way this is handled, the information that is why, therefore, is not the question if some formality is wrong, if simply with a visa something or if he forgot his passport, it is clear that in that case, but if there are certain and threatened, if there are certain information, the hearing would simply complicate the whole procedure, would not allow the flow across our borders, through the border crossings and simply have no purpose. Therefore, institutions do not do so on an arbitrary basis but on the basis of certain information, information that assesses the risks that a particular person may pose for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the role is for the police and every state institution to protect the safety of our citizens and our role as legislators is not to bind the role of our policeman, the one who cares about the safety of Croatian citizens rather than to help him do the job better and for that reason, the HDZ Club will not support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144996	The next club of MPs is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144997	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of the day is the proposal for a law amending the Foreign Act proposed by the GLAS and HSU. We all the time, the opposition and the ruling are playing one and the same game, so the opposition proposes certain changes, ruling right away, they decide not to bother, not even to let in another reading, but we immediately have a bunch of arguments why it can't, so in this case it's also about this law, there's not even an effort to say ok, maybe there's something there, maybe there's something that could but there's all the arguments why it should be. We proposed this law a year ago, 20 June 2018, so a little less than a year ago it was on the parent committee that discussed it and in the debate part of the board therefore was enough to support the draft law which considered that the provisions of the Foreigners Act could be amended and said, I will only read it, as well as for the reasons why the Republic of Croatia is a democratic state and should not be acted xenophobicly as the impression is gained. In recent days, you and I have had the opportunity to hear and see a great need for additional labour, where people in tourism cry out, as well as all entrepreneurs who are building, are also crying out for additional labour, those who deal with tourism say my people, there will be no tourists, there will be no one to work, those who are in construction say no matter what, we can meet certain conditions and withdraw EU funds, especially when it comes to investment, these investments will not be because they will not have anyone working. This is one of the laws that actually speaks and sends a message like us and how we treat someone who possibly wants to come here, wants to be there for a while, wants to work. We do not need to be a small xenophobic country that fears everything and everything, we need to be first and foremost friends to all our citizens but we need to be open to someone who is willing to come, work in Croatia, make money, possibly for a while and stay because that is the only way to show this one openness of the country. There is obviously a significant difference between the HDZ colleagues and us from GLAS. We deliberately went with this amendment and the addition of the law, estimating that something that just shows direction, shows idea, shows openness. If everyone really thought so, then surely this law would come to another reading, I'm afraid after the debate of the distinguished fellow Stier that it will not be like that, but you'll refuse to do it, but don't do it, show that we're not a small closed xenophobic country, that we're a country that we're willing to accept and some people who want to come here, who want to earn their bread here because simply in this way this country has a future, otherwise we'll be around all the time to show that we're on this continent that we love so much, only one small country that's afraid of everything that's not open as it's supposed to be, because it's already been over a year since we've proposed this law, we're absolutely clear ideas that this law should show the direction of a liberal democracy that should be with us and with us, unfortunately, obviously, there's a lot of those who put their feet in the door but don't put their feet in the door, leave, let them say, let them say, open to say, open to all those who are ready to come and work in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144998	Thank you. Of course, of course, on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Vesna Pusić, here you are, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u144999	Thank you very much, I won't... But just to say the final few words, first of all, I'm glad that we've talked about it at least a little bit, to respond to what my colleague Stier said in his debate, the same priority is security and freedom as you know, it's two concepts that are always in balance, and this is not in any way necessary, I'm also in the water, and it has to compromise any national security because with a written explanation that says for reasons of national security you're being denied or doped by your stay in the country, it's something with which a man can use other instruments that already exist by law, which is an objection, a complaint, which is the approach to these institutions that, and in which it would write where he can access, imagine now you come to a third country, don't let you in, where you know the legal provisions and in general mechanisms, legal remedy for what is decided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this does not require the swelling of any state secrets or the threat of national security, only requires the possibility of exploiting those instruments that already exist in the law, i.e. the right to appeal. As for Article 38, therefore, no special difficulty would have caused me, my own example long ago but still, in one EU country they stopped me at the border and they wouldn't let me in because I didn't have enough money on me but they talked to me. And my boyfriend, who I was traveling with, he had money and all the money was at his place, and I didn't even know it was some problem then that you didn't have any money on you, and after they talked to me, they let me go. So, there are situations where you just talk to a man, it's confirmed eventually that you can't, but if you talk to a man and you see that some benign or such reasons are the kind of guy I just told, there's no reason to stop him from entering the country because of something that can be explained and that's also an EU member. So I think that without any threat to national security and keeping the balance between security and freedom, we could do this, as I said, it's not dramatic in this law itself, but it is in our political culture, in that I think it's dramatic. Thank you very much, you will of course do as you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u145000	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u145001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pusic, this article here specifically states the reasons, so the reasons for national security, are not these other banals that you mentioned but is the reason when it is a threat to national security. Of course, this citizen can address his embassy that he knows well because it's their business, what laws are in the Republic of Croatia and instruct him to make and file a complaint if he needs some assistance. Therefore, the mechanism of appeal exists but what is important is that when we talk about this balance of freedom and security, yes, but primarily the freedom and security of Croatian citizens and that is what Croatian institutions must safeguard.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u145002	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now finish work today, here until 7 o'clock we worked, we will continue tomorrow, 19 June at 9:30 and the first point will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645, good night. The session was interrupted at 7:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u145003	Proposal for a Law amending the Foreign Law, first reading, P.Z. Number 354. The proposal is a club of representatives of GLAS and HSU, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Foreigners and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. I stress that the proposed conclusion is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the Committee on Legislatives. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the required number of votes, 73 is against, 5 abstentions and 17 for. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law, Comrade Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u145004	The president would ask for one explanation for this situation, so the council has not reached any conclusion because no conclusion has been reached. So neither to be accepted nor to what we had around the last law not to be accepted. So I would pray that, not today, but to make a statement once about this practice that the Assembly must make some kind of decision. Even if you don't accept the conclusion. Because otherwise this issue remains open and we can theoretically vote on the law in another conclusion next time. Well, here's the address.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-18-0.u145005	Well, I'm asking you to formulate it in writing or in writing, so let's see how we write it in writing.
