ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131235	The Law on veterinary medicinal products lays down the placing on the market, production, traffic on large and small, quality control and supervision of veterinary medicinal products in order to ensure their quality, safety and efficacy as animal health products, and thereby protect human health from resident veterinary medicinal products in food of animal origin. The Law on veterinary medicinal products has a major impact on several important sectors in the economic sectors of the Republic of Croatia, which are animal health and animal health, but also on livestock production and the domestic pharmaceuticals industry of veterinary medicinal products. Since Croatia is an extremely low market, the domestic pharmaceuticals industry of veterinary medicinal products can only survive if it is export-oriented. In accordance with the national programme of reforms of the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at uniting economic inspections, proposed amendments and additions to the Veterinary and Medical Products Act, inspection of the implementation of this law by the Ministry of Agriculture shall be taken by the State Inspectorate. In addition to the part of the surveillance related to the production of veterinary medicinal products on a large scale to be carried out by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices HALMED. HALMED also took over from the Ministry of Agriculture product approval, VMP and large-scale traffic. For these specific areas, neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the State Inspectorate, they have adequate professional administrative capacities that require a number of educated experts who possess very specific knowledge from production and transport of the VMP to a large extent. HALMED now performs these tasks in a segment of medicines, which are used in humans and has a sufficient number of necessary experts who continuously improve their skills in line with the current requirements of good manufacturing practice in the EU. Other proposed amendments to the law aim to enable a better business climate in the Republic of Croatia as it removes certain administrative barriers in business, which have been observed during the current law, which we believe will ultimately contribute to the progress of the aforementioned economic branches and the health sector in the Republic of Croatia. The amendments to the laws aim to enable manufacturers of veterinary medicinal products operating in the Republic of Croatia to grant authorisation for the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products as long as the manufacturer meets the prescribed conditions, instead of prescribed within 5 years. This will ensure that VMP producers in the Republic of Croatia are equated with other EU producers' rights. In the national procedure for issuing a marketing authorisation, the need to take the opinion of the Committee for Veterinary Products as an administrative barrier is lifted and, when extending the marketing authorisation, clear deadlines for supplementing the application are prescribed in the event that the applicant does not provide the requested documentation and does not answer the questions of the evaluator of the dossier. These barriers have now extended the time needed to issue national approvals for placing on the market, which will be implemented faster, more economically and more effectively in the future by national approval procedures. The proposed provisions of the law also delete provisions obliging the EU authorisation holder to make mandatory appointments of its representative in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the responsible person based in the Republic of Croatia, as this is an administrative barrier which financially burdens the business of the EU authorisation holder in the Republic of Croatia. Clearer regulation of the VMP transport area to a large extent will facilitate the work of scientific and research institutions that currently have restrictions on access to the VMP as it will enable them to obtain the necessary VMP more easily and will simplify and justify the import of VMP which does not have a marketing authorisation in the Republic of Croatia, which will help the veterinary profession react more quickly to the occurrence of infectious animal diseases. In the field of law enforcement, provisions relating to the means of reduction of micro-organisms with the use of veterinary medicinal products have also been deleted, as this area of legislation is governed by biocidal products within the competence of the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131236	We have four replicas, first mate Križanić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131237	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, this law should be very helpful in removing administrative barriers to registration and obtaining a solution to the introduction of the medicinal product into the market. But I'm curious, if we won't make it easier for the illegal intake of drugs more easily, we know that a lot of drugs are illegally introduced, where animal owners then treat their animals with these medicines, and we know that it's just these VMPs, veterinary medicinal products, a potential source of bio-residue in purpose... the origin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131238	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131239	I thank the Assembly's representative on the issue, on the contrary to the regulated law, we have arranged all the undefined procedures so far, when it comes to importing veterinary medicinal products into the Republic of Croatia, where, now, under this proposed law, HALMED, as an institution that already operates, which has a practice, which has certified inspectors, will oversee the entire process and production and transport of veterinary medicinal products on the market of the Republic of Croatia and thus clearly and better guarantee the security of food and human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131240	Second replica, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, when we talk about this subject, it is necessary to mention something that our people see, which is that from year to year, we are talking about veterinary, talking about how to help manufacturers, but the reason that you here, or the problem that you are solving or the work that you are improving, will not give any effect, because the continued decline of domestic animals in the Republic, i.e., the number of both cattle and pigs and all that our OPGs are growing. So the key to the problem we haven't solved, we've been dealing with cosmetics, quality agriculture strategies are still missing, the minister is dealing with who knows what, we see that he hasn't been in the Croatian Parliament at all in recent months, regardless of his private problems, I think he should show up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131242	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131243	Indeed, in your debate I cannot conclude what the question is, but I will just say that the Ministry of Agriculture, organised and professionally oversees the entire process of the transport of medicines and animal health in the Republic of Croatia, for the purpose of obtaining status at our stages, the Ministry of Agriculture allocates more than 180 million kuna per year, to implement all the orderly measures and thus guarantee the health care of domestic animals, and it is a prerequisite that you can ensure development in the local processing industry, because if you do not have health certificates in the stages, you can simply not work then either... An animal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131244	Thank you, dear colleague Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131245	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, one of the main objections of this bill is a vague provision, jurisdiction, to which the Croatian Veterinary Institute in its remarks, has made numerous remarks and pointed out. I am curious to whom will the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medicinal Products report, since the legal proposal does not make that clear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131246	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131247	The founder is the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131248	Comrade Bull, please, you are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131249	Thanks to well-respected secretaries, veterinarians and medical products, which are treated on animals, affecting health and the environment, above all, citizens' health, but the fact is that we are increasingly importing, examples of the most pigs, billions of kunas annually introduce pork, who controls, already talking about health, what they are treated with, which vaccines, medicines and import goods, pork, which is 10 kn on our drawers, which destroys domestic production, who controls it and how it is controlled, because we are aware that it is impossible for a kilo of pork to be 10 kn. This means something that has been produced not in a natural way, but is treated who knows what and how to implement and prohibit the import of these harmful, bad food, which is on our shelves, which directly affects our production, our domestic livestock production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131250	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131251	Thank you, Mr. MP, for asking the question. So the food safety system, at EU level, is defined through regulations and a number of laws, which we have also taken over, in national legislation, and the whole model is based on that all manufacturers, who place the product on the market, are responsible for health care and they must only carry out controls based on the casso system. National states, as well as the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of the official control programme, are working on extraordinary controls and controls and thus establishing this part of the quality of meat itself through monitoring and the Republic of Croatia, providing 20 million kunas only for the control of these bodies and these preparations of allergens and other ingredients in food, to ensure that our citizens eat healthy and proper food, and based on official controls, all irregularities are confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131252	Thank you. Comrade Prelec, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131253	Thank you, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, here I am pleased that this law has come to the Assembly and that this way we will control all the medicines used by domestic cattle producers. I am absolutely aware of this, however, and we know from the latest examples that domestic cattle producers are not pigs or cattle, but are importers. We have here, I would ask your comment, how is it possible that a really large amount of meat has come to Croatia and we know about the kebab case past all the veterinary inspections and the world of that together? Here I have to express concern on behalf of the citizens that we are protecting citizens from domestic meat which is mostly of good quality and satisfactory but in what way will we protect citizens from exactly this kind of meat and we know that the uncontrolled imports of meat into Croatia have come, for kebab it has been spent by Croatian producers of 500 kg, who is to blame for what happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131254	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131255	I will only, thank you for asking, only to repeat that the manufacturers who place the product on the EU market guarantee the health value of their product. Veterinary inspections in Slovenia, where a Polish manufacturer's facility is registered on the basis of official controls and controls in that facility, have established that there is a specific meat preparation that has been contaminated and is not in conformity with the standards set up and has then been notified by all EU members through a rapid food alarm system, the HACCP system. All our inspections and veterinary injections and sanitary inspections are through our... The system checked who imported this product into the Croatian market, we went through all the facilities, all the plants and all the meat in that producer that was not consistent with the market, and it only says how well we have an organised system that is able to fix all these things quickly on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131256	Thank you. Now let's see if the committee's reporters will take the floor. If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected colleague Josip Križanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131257	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is another law that we are passing in an emergency procedure for harmonising with the EU acquis, but we also need to pass it because of 1. 4. In 2019, the establishment of a State Inspectorate with which the adoption of this law is also closely linked. But before I talk about the scale of this law on behalf of the club, allow me and two, three of my personal observations regarding this matter. Since Croatia is a very small market for VMP, veterinary medicinal products, we often come into a situation where people who do this work do not know how to do it. For example, a technologist on a feeder farm sets an objective diagnosis of lektospirosis that makes huge economic damage from abortions and to the disease of animals on the farm, the problem would be largely resolved by vaccination but due to small amounts of fencing, the wholesalers are not worth asking for registration for small amounts of vaccines and in that case the cattlemen are left to themselves and to all possible ways of finding and inventing how to solve their problem and protect their herd. Another example is the problem of the registration and legalisation of human medicines in veterinary medicine, especially in the treatment of pets, sports horses or animals that are not used in human consumption. We know that analgesic, antihistamine, antiflogist or antibiotic is the same for both animals and humans. Furthermore, we all know that on dogs and horses everywhere in the world the most demanding medical procedures are being performed and it is also widely known that human medicines are being used to treat such animals. It would be good for such a law across the EU to regulate and provide answers to both this issue and these issues. But let's get to the text of the law. This law has a major impact on the economy of the Republic of Croatia, but more importantly, it regulates the public health of this country, animal protection and human health. From residuals, veterinary medicinal products in... the origin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This substance in recent days has become a day-to-day political issue because food that is imported or imported into the Republic of Croatia must always be constantly healthy and safe and high-quality impeccable. Therefore, the control of residuals or residues of medicinal products in food is one of the main tasks of the veterinary inspection on the occasion of the removal of samples for control. In accordance with this law on inspectorate, control and supervision of this takeover by the State Inspector while the supervision of production and subject matter on large veterinary medicinal products is taken over by the Croatian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, HALMED. Namely, neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Inspectorate have any administrative or professional and other capacities related to good manufacturing practice in the EU of the production of medicines such as HALMED which controls the production of human medicines. Perhaps this is the first step in solving the problem of using and human medicines in treating pets. Furthermore, this law aims to enable a better business climate in the Republic of Croatia by removing administrative barriers such as the approval for production that has lasted 5 years for us so far and is now changing this law as long as the manufacturer has the conditions for production as well as throughout the EU. The opinion of the VMP Commission on the placing of medicinal products on the market as well as the unnecessary long-term administration and completion of the national documentation that endlessly extended the procedures and I am purchasing the procedure. A clearer and simpler provision of VMPs to large and legal scientific institutions that have so far had limited access but will also simplify the import of medicines that do not have a marketing authorisation into the Republic of Croatia. So that veterinarians can act more quickly and efficiently in the event of infectious diseases. I hope now that this technologist from the beginning of my presentation will be able to legally introduce a vaccine that will split his animals and reduce the huge technological loss in production, all because of the illogical and unnecessary administrative barriers. On the other hand, it is very important to control strictly the illegal intake of medicines from abroad, without any control that the cattlemen themselves apply without the necessary knowledge to their animals, without taking care of the dose, let alone the withdrawals and.../incomprehensible/... veterinary medicinal products in foodstuffs of animal origin. However, I would like to make it very clear that this is still a much smaller problem than imported meat, which we unfortunately cannot control from field to table, as we do with our animals, or foods of animal origin that come from our slaughterhouses. This law is going in the right direction and the HDZ Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131258	We're going to another club now. This is SDSS Representatives' Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131259	I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr Secretary of State with his associates, so we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary and Medical Products Act, and I believe it is necessary to define first what veterinary medicinal products are. Therefore, these are substances or mixtures of a number of substances used in the treatment or prevention of diseases, research, production, approval, application, regulation, traffic and supervision of veterinary medicinal products, regulation of national rules, the Law on veterinary medicinal products and the rules governing certain chapters. The subject of the proposal for this law is the transfer of competence in the field of transport of VMP to large and production of VMPs to another public legal body, i.e. from one to the other and certainly that this law is in accordance with Directive 82/01. The reasons for its adoption are therefore the changes that occur and concerning the inspection provisions relating to the National Reform Programme and the tasks of carrying out inspection controls or official controls from the competent ministries shall be taken over by the State Inspectorate and in the part of the supervision of law enforcement. Exceptionally, as we have had the opportunity to hear in the section concerning inspection supervision related to the authorisation of the production of the VMP, the supervision of good manufacturing practice, the authorisation for large and large traffic surveillance, the competent authorities are taken over by inspectors, medicines and medical products, so HALMED because this is a specific area. The State Inspectorate and the Ministry have no professional, administrative capacity of their own, which the Secretary of State has pointed out several times. Since these areas requiring high expertise and very specific knowledge, due to insufficient administrative capacity, the competent authority or the ministry was unable to develop its capacities in order to be fully able to carry out its tasks on its own in time. Therefore, contracts with legal persons have been concluded for the performance of these transactions. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws of the implementation of operations in the manufacturing and transport segment are largely transferred to the competence of HALMED which have sufficient professional staff qualified to carry out those operations. In the light of this proposal, the law further states that it is considered prudent and responsible if there are jobs at the VMP and which ministry, which the Ministry of Agriculture cannot carry out because of the lack of capacity, so that the same trusts to institutions that are relevant to the area are included in the issues with the VMP. The production and transport of the VMP to large, therefore very specific and demanding, and they need special attention, which will be how we had the opportunity to hear it done by HALMED, and it is competent as the esteemed State Secretary taught me that it was the Ministry of Health. The good side of this bill is certainly because, as far as the law has been in force, the approval of the production of the VMP is therefore granted for 5 years, while in the EU Member States the approval is valid as long as the manufacturer of the VMP meets the prescribed conditions. In this way, VMP producers were indeed in an uninvisible situation in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore this bill will allow for the authorisation of production of the VMP without a limited period of validity. The provisions on international transport of VMPs which do not have a marketing authorisation in the Republic of Croatia were not clearly prescribed, making it difficult for the competent authority to implement emergency measures in the event of outbreaks of infectious diseases, and will now improve this proposal by law. Actually, that's what we're expecting. It is also an opportunity when we talk about this bill to say something about counterfeiting which is a serious problem that everyone at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health is increasingly facing. So in the EU, I am going to do something about counterfeiting and environment, in the EU there are production, approval and distribution of veterinary medicinal products, products governed by a number of regulations including a good manufacturer of the practice of the finished product as well as active substances, and there is a prescribed dossier on each product. However, the increase in counterfeiting becomes a growing problem and counterfeiting is present in almost all of these processes. Although there are many definitions for the counterfeit product, it is all in common that it is a deliberate deception for the purpose of obtaining material benefit. The share of counterfeit drugs on the market has increased in veterinary medicine for the last decade. Forged medicinal products are usually not produced in accordance with international requirements of good manufacturing practice which is mandatory for all manufacturers or are produced under poor hygiene conditions or from uncontrolled raw materials with an illicit proportion of impurities which may also be pharmacologically active. Such medicinal products are often placed on the market through intermediaries that determine the conditions and price, or with the help of distributors that have weak or almost no control, which is why they are found very often on the market under cover of so-called. parallel imports. The rise in standards in developed countries is an increasing concern for animal health, especially pets, and their owners are often just the victim of counterfeiting. The more frequent cases of drug counterfeiting are, in fact, the consequences of organised crime, and such drugs are linked even to terrorist activity, so according to the 2015 data. The World Health Organization estimates that as many as 10 to 15% of developed countries’ medicines are counterfeit and more undeveloped. This is why the European Parliament issued 1.7.2011. A directive relating to counterfeit medicinal products for human use. The World Health Organization continues to have data that 50% of medicines distributed online are actually falsified. The International Institute for the Control of the Forgery of Medicinal Products from 2015 A review of 430 drug-sale networks found that as much as 94.3% of the medicines offered were illegal. Therefore, medicines via the Internet should be considered or best not to be used. As internet sales are one of the biggest problems, in 2014, the European Commission presented a common logo for online pharmacies, for the time being only for human medicines that will be able to be checked, so they will be able to verify their credibility. The United Nations has also engaged in the fight against this organised crime, as well as the European Agency for Medical Products. Often, forgers are, therefore, those who use names that are the same or are reminded of the actual and legal names of medicinal products or producers, which additionally deceives potential customers, and from the available data cannot safely conclude their credibility, nor the country that is advertised, from which they are advertised or traded. There are now, of course, a series of recommendations on how to protect against counterfeiting, therefore, how to protect packaging, print single numbers, printing, it is recommended to become mandatory and 2D code on packaging, so these are all recommendations that would in some way reduce counterfeiting. The use of unknown origin and suspicious quality may increase the risk to human and animal health and the environment due to exposure to untested pharmacologically active substances and their residues, harmful impurities and packaging, and illicit amounts of micro-organisms. All of this can increase, of course, the potential for the development of antimicrobial resistance. In view of the real danger of counterfeiting, the Republic of Croatia should also be actively involved in all organisations and activities that can prevent the production, transport and use of such medicinal products, and should carry out joint actions with EU members, as well as countries in the environment. In the Republic of Croatia, there is a need to strengthen the control of VMP traffic and to monitor internet sales, and education and information by the public should affect the reduction of illegal purchases. It should also be encouraged to report any suspicion of counterfeiting to the competent authority. The use of modern technological solutions and the monitoring of the traceability of each VMP on the market can reduce the risk of counterfeiting and protect the rights of the manufacturer. Systemically, surveillance should be carried out, not only of the VMP wholesaler, but also of other entities which distribute or use the VMP. The introduction of a quality system into a whole chain involving production, distribution, application and supervision would reduce the possibility of counterfeited vehicles on the market. Before I finish, preparing for this debate, what I really did, which attracted my attention is the fact that the Croatian Veterinary Institute was actively involved in the drafting of this bill, so it had 41 comments in the consultation, of which 20 were rejected, 19 were accepted, and 2 were accepted, these 2 were of course related to the question of nomenclature and compliance with the no-technical characteristics of this law. To me, it remains unknown why this is so that the suggestions of the Croatian Veterinary Institute are not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131260	We're going to the SDP Representatives' Club debate, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131261	Thank you, President-in-Office of HS, respected state secretary with associate, here we have this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Veterinary Medical Products with the final proposal of the law and as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, and I think that it is good, because first of all we must protect everything our Croats eat, first of all take care of our consumers, and there are absolutely no fences in the SDP and any such proposal, which goes towards the improved quality of the product on the Croatian market, will be supported. However, I must consolidate what I have asked the Secretary of State how we will protect ourselves from uncontrollable and bad meat that comes from imports. And I'm going to say that in some way, it's a very difficult situation and in any case worse than it was in domestic production. Namely, the number of cattle in Croatia has been reduced by 8.2%, by 6.6% and sheep by 3.1%, so we are talking about statistics on production in Croatia, while the number of poultry is lower by 10.6%. At the same time, the number of goats in 2018 increased by 3.9% compared to the previous year. According to previous data, the number of livestock and poultry status in 2018 compared to the final data in 2017 decreased by 8.2%, pigs by 6.6% and sheep by 3.1, while the number of poultry was lower by 10.6%. According to data provided by the National Bureau of Statistics, Croatia had 414 thousand pieces of cattle on the date of 1 December 2018, with a maximum of 165 thousand cattle older than 2 years whose number fell by 30 thousand in a year. Thirty thousand less cattle. The number of male cows fell to 136 thousand, that 3,000 pieces were less than the same year, i.e. in 2017, the number of pigs from 1.12 million pieces from 2017 fell to 1.5 million pieces, i.e. by 6.6%. Concerns and the decline of the number of poultry, a sector that until recently was one of the best in Croatia, indicate that the number of poultry fell by more than 1 million pieces, i.e. from 10.4 to 9.3 million pieces. The only growth was recorded in goats, which were more than 3,000 pieces. Why am I saying this? In the previous part, I said that I was not worried about domestic production and the use of medicines in domestic cattle, livestock, but simply about everything that is imported, and I am absolutely concerned about it, and I believe all Croatian citizens who buy meat, because we know what happened to us, and here I am going to do this a little bit now and update everything that happened in this Croatian Parliament, maybe we talked too little about how something went under the radar. In fact, the secretary of state also said that the EU has its own system of protecting and alarming non-quality meat, here I am going to say maybe the EU has its own mechanism, but it seems to me that we have not responded in the right way. The inspection claimed that we had no infected Polish meat, it's in that kebab, she claimed there was no infected Polish meat, and it turned out that we ate 500kg of that meat. In fact, the sanitary inspection finally found that the meat was infected with salmonella and escherichia coli sold and consumed at 57 locations in Croatia, which is finally a confirmation of how much of the problem they wrote about, or, for a long time, we are seriously warning. No one from the sanitary inspection was able to answer the question, exactly how much infected meat has been eaten in Croatia so far. According to the data, there could be between 578 thousand pounds of meat, so I'm passing on what I read. It's something that's doubtful. These are calculations by multiplying the average week of kebab consumption in individual catering facilities. The calculation we see is quite imprecise, so between 578 thousand 500 kg of meat, I hope this is this less than 570 kg, we see it quite inaccurate, and from inspection, public concern, it tries to mitigate the comments that the infection has been detected in frozen meat, which before consumption, has to go to thermal processing, which significantly reduces the risk to the consumer, which is also well carried out. So, amazing how that was an explanation, this is infected meat, but they're going to be thermally processed, so it's not dangerous for people. Such logic, likely, will not appease those who ate kebab at one of the problem locations, to clarify how the whole story was running, I would say, or rather, referred a few questions about this issue. First, when did we first hear about infected meat? Secondly, how much meat is really imported from Poland? Third, how has it been discovered that infected meat has been delivered to Croatia as well? This is what I would say the most important question, and we knew when the Slovenian Food Safety Agency ordered the withdrawal from the sale of 12 tonnes of beef imported from Poland, the Slovenian media said that meat was delivered to customers in Croatia. So we didn't find out about the infected meat on our own, but we had a tip from the Slovenians, I'm not going to say it might not be an EU mechanism, but why our inspections didn't work. How are we, why haven't we admitted to the inspection if it's already happened? Why do we still not know how much of this infected meat has been eaten in Croatia? And finally, what chaos is there in the Croatian cattle market? These are all questions, which I believe torture the average Croatian consumer, the one that buys meat in Sparta, Kaufland or Konzum, the one that eats kebabjaves from a kebabjenica or a burek from the unaccounted for, some cans on the road. And I think we really need to be worried about that. Not what today is the topic of this debate of the bill, how to protect Croatian consumers from domestic meat, how to control the use of medical products. My question would be how will we protect Croatian consumers with imported meat? And we know that we import more and more meat from year to year. I must admit that I am not at peace here, I am not sure about the health of me, my children and probably not a Croatian citizen. These are the questions we need to regulate. I would no longer trouble this problem that we had with meat for kebabs from Poland, but I would say that I hope that such failures will be in the future as little as possible. And in any case, we support this proposal with the fact that perhaps we should worry more about how to encourage Croatian producers to produce as much as possible. And then this problem of the use of medical products in Croatia will be a minor problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131262	We've come to the end of the debate by clubs and we're going to individual debates now. The first one's a respected colleague, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131263	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. Here, we are talking about veterinary and medical products, of course we have, and already the regulation has regulated the approvals we have for veterinary products. However, I would also like to talk about the protection of domestic products, i.e. domestic production because the rapid drop, especially when we're talking about pig farming, I really said that and in the replica I can't understand that pork in trade chains can be imports of 10 kuna. And of course that meat is probably, not likely, 90% fed by GMOs came from the area across the lines of Hungary, Serbia, who knows where, 10 kuna and of course our producers, our meanings of the people who deal with pork in this case can't be competitive. They can't be competitive, but the question is what they were treated with, what medicines and how they were fed. It's 100% GMO, we know that... GMO that is fed and that is essentially affecting the health of our people because here is primarily the protection of the health of our people and the promotion of domestic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian state absolutely did nothing about it but did everything in the interest of import lobbies. Because that's how, for example, I look in my neighborhood, in my neighborhood, in the cetin area of Sinj, so literally, such are the spatial plans that you can't make anywhere a barn and what's done by spatial plans can't be used. Why is that done in Croatia? So what makes it normal in Rotterdam to see a couple of sheep in front of the house, in Austria, here you go and you will see that almost in the heart of the city you see cattle, but in Croatia everything needs to be done so that the domestic producer cannot grow domestic livestock. However, everyone's a dear prosciutto and lamb young, but here we are, there you are quite active about these things. So we didn't do anything because this topic already when we talk about it, then we have to use it to make it normal in all the countries west to see cattle almost in the very heart of the city. We have even prevented domestic producers from producing in the countryside, such are spatial plans, 500 meters from neighbors, 900 meters from the road, 1000 meters from what, however, is so in Zagora. Now imagine, but it is normal to be the center of waste disposal to be in Lečevica, it is normal to be in the heart of the Dalmatian Zagora, but when a man grows goats, he wants to produce cheese at the Joy at Sinj's and then say so, you can't make that farm because you don't know where the orphan will go, because the orphan can affect the river Jadra which is about 20 km away from Radosce. E or waste management centres... Putting off non-selective waste in Lečevica, that's normal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the middle of the Dalmatian fire, that's normal. So we do everything to stop our people from producing. First of all, we need to be aware here and admit to ourselves that we import harmful, health-threatening products that we don't control whether GMOs, how many glyphosates there are, how many of these harmful substances they feed, especially pork. And these are the defeating results. Today we have a billion kuna imports of pork and Slavonia is empty and we have conditions. Harmful. Well, it's not in Croatia, here's the exact information from the Croatian Institute of Public Health about how high the tumor is. Well, it doesn't suck so much of a tumor increase because we don't encourage domestic production. We domestic producers stop to please foreign producers to sell but it is an import lobby within the ministries, there are key damages and damages. Because it wouldn't have happened if, in the last 10 years with 64 thousand dairy producers today, we came to a level below, about 4,000 dairy producers. Ten years ago, we imported 30% of dairy products, now 80% of dairy products. But it is important that we prescribe EU directives, that we have not adapted our village and peasants to produce our domestic products. And that's it. The biggest consumption of our domestic products is... election campaign, to sweep all lambs and sheep, and then it's neat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there are no more lambs and sheep. Now we're coming into a huge problem because we see... He said the fall was both sheep and lamb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's not focus on the protection of imported lobbies, but on the protection of domestic products. I've also given here a bill on banning the import of GMO products, GMO food, mainly in food. I didn't get any support here, I'm sorry, no matter how much I thank all the MPs who voted for it. We always control domestic producers and stop domestic producers. We're on Pag, say, people who do shepherding and produce paisan, famous Pag cheese, there on meadows where they store cattle, sheep, now there's going to be some sorting place or I don't know, some kind of garbage station, right on that meadow where they keep sheep. Where I have 22 OPGs dealing with paisan cheese. What's that for? And then we're going to be selling Pag cheese from other countries, from Italy, this one that hasn't seen Pag, but they're going to write Pag cheese. Today we boast with Dalmatian prosciutto, high-end prosciutto, but we don't have cattle, we don't produce pigs. How can it be Dalmatian prosciutto, top-notch, saucy, when we import from the Netherlands, it's Dutch prosciutto. Or what I know where we're from. Frozen meat. We must only encourage domestic production, not restrict our people to produce. Like, we respect EU directives. Everybody smells when there's a barn and a farm nearby. That smells like shit to everyone. Well, they don't smell prosciutto. That's fine with them. And then he logs in, there by the kindergartens in Rotterdam, people say when they come, they see there in front of the house, there's a couple of sheep standing. It's normal and natural. We must enable the peasant to produce, not limit it with spatial plans and import lobbys. And of course people have no interest in producing it. The man keeps the village of the pig, he reports it, you can't do it on a spatial basis because it's building land. In the village. So where are they gonna keep it? We've done everything so we don't have domestic production. The most professional people, under ties, are neat, professional, graduates of higher education, but that's the problem. But they've all done that we don't have domestic production. From spatial planning to import lobbies, GMO food that goes through, so here we are, I'm very interested in what makes the growth of tumors in the Republic of Croatia? Because of the uncontrollable food imported into Croatia. Because of the harmful food imported into Croatia, one of the main causes. I repeat, I cannot believe that the neck of a pig is 10 kuna in a chain of trade. We, in this direction, need to protect the manufacturer, not just copy European directives, as if I don't know it, the Gospel. And that's how it has to be. We have to work exclusively in the interest of our farmer, our manufacturer, we need to promote domestic production, buy domestic products and brand it. Brand the stamps. To know what Dalmatian prosciutto is. If it is to be produced in Slavonia, we will produce in Slavonia and work Dalmatian prosciutto, vrgorska, držnica, products, but not imported from the Netherlands. So what does he feed them? So in three months, he's in a pig's 200 kilos, how's that? How is this treated, what medications? Who's controlling it? And that's the problem. The refrigerators and coolers come to dry the meat for prosciuttos. We must, then, encourage first of all from pig production to prosciutto and thus dairy production. So empty to us all of Luc, here you are, heading down towards my burn, and you will see. There are no five cows. There's always some kind of restriction, guessing with import lobbys, which is why we have bad food, and that's why we have to fight for domestics, for peasants and domestic production. It's basic and vital to survival. Without a rich village, there is no rich country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131264	The exposure of his colleagues, Bulja, caused four replicas. First up, comrade Križanić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131265	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bull, anything, 98% of what you said can be signed. It's all we agree, you and I know we can't ban imports, we agree that we have to give our cattlemen every possible condition. It is also important to declare and write that food is domestic, all of this I agree with you, to raise people's awareness of it, to make it easier to withdraw funds. Without that, we can't be competitive. But it should also be made very clear that without EU membership and without being a member of the EU we could not withdraw funds, we withdraw huge funds from measure 4, billions for farm building. It's only since this year, our competition, it's 20 years old, insurance measures 70% 70%, 75 thousand euros, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131266	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131267	Thank you very much. I don't know how to explain since we joined the EU, that with 64 thousand dairy producers we burned about 5 grand. Why did we increase imports, what was Croatia doing? Which is the Ministry of Regional Development, which needs to be shut down because it doesn't make any simple sense, it just lists what other ministries are doing. And we're at the bottom after we withdraw the funds. We have, you know, in Slavonia we have built farms, people invested, but they're empty farms and now they're going to buy them for us because in 2020, unfortunately this Assembly... We want to be able to sell agricultural land to foreigners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you know they're gonna buy it for small-time strangers, and our people, the ones who invested in those farms, they went to Ireland, Germany, they're gonna guard the cattle, and they're gonna do the job. I'm not talking about it. I'm saying it's not the Holy Scriptures of the EU directive. To us must be parliamentary representatives to fight for a strong village and strong peasant And everything by that you do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] However, the waist She's never done that before. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131268	Comrade Prelac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131269	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. I must say, fellow Bull, I agree with everything you've said. It is not easy to agree with everyone what you said, but here I agree absolutely and when we talk about it being in Croatian agriculture, we are investing more and more in Croatian agriculture every year, and in fact we have less and less. That's amazing. I've given that some data, the fewer the number of cattle, here's 8% of the pigs, 6% of the sheep, 3%, and from previous years the same was so much less, I mean it's really worrying, I'm not going to say that for everything the Ministry of Agriculture is wrong, there's probably something and I don't know some other factors that make it so, but the fact that the more money it is, it's agriculture in a worse state. And I agree absolutely with you that because of both the import lobby and actually agriculture came into this situation. We have an extremely large the importer, and the domestic meat very, very little. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131270	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131271	Thank you very much, you mentioned well at the beginning of the incentive, I can't believe that we always have huge incentives that are 100% in the amount or most of the amounts are paid mainly to large producers, which is questionable, because we need to know that even Agrokor had thousands of OPGs, so the money instead of, and other large producers, instead of going to small OPGs in Slavonia essentially went to the giants that opened some thousands of OPG sisters. So those EUR billion that came from EU funds did not go to the right place. And that's the problem. But it's right inside the system, so it's not the people who are not professional, it's not the peasant's fault, it's not the peasant who can't produce the lamb in what, if we import from New Zealand lamb frozen for 10 kuna, so the man can't produce it in our Croatia, and our pensioner would rather buy it because there's no money. So we've been doing everything against the interests of villages and peasants. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131272	Comrade Maras, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131273	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleague Bulj, for what I heard in your debate and what I agree with is that it is illogical for Croatia and propagating the HDZ Government to benefit greatly from the EU, agriculture, incentives to pay off, it has never been better in the words of the Minister and Secretary of State, and on the other hand, the results have never been worse. For me, it's illogical, here's when a man registers a farm in Google you see the Ministry of Agriculture, then you see a whole series of titles of companies like here's a Genius Consulting 50,000 EUR of grants for young farmers, and then next week you see payments, and then the OPGs soon have grants of up to 15,000 euros, so there's a whole series of articles that talk like there's a lot of opportunities, a lot of money, and that's why you're not getting the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131274	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131275	Thank you very much, colleague Maras, for what the money has come from, and we are at the bottom of withdrawing funds from the EU, we are at the bottom, that's what the State Audit report said yesterday that we are at the bottom of Europe, the money did not come to those who needed to come, and that's the small OPGs, and that's the problem. So the money that was supposed to come to the O.P.G. that deals with family production and deals with their own in their homes they basically gave that money to big corporations. And that's what happened, and that money that came to a minor, small amount, a huge amount for us, but basically very little did not actually go to the right places, but went to large corporations that basically destroyed both livestock and the economic and economic system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131276	And the last replica, Comrade Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131277	Thank you, President, I have a.../incomprehensible... because I agree with you and it's not a problem in the land, it's not a problem in money, it's a problem that we're not used to young people dealing with agriculture. Agriculture is not an easy job, and as far as spatial plans are concerned, I do not see any units of local administration, and especially municipalities in Croatia that have defined by the plan for banning livestock production. What is exclusively said is said through the Law on.../incomprehensible/... which states at which locations and where it can deal with agriculture even in building land. And that's what I have to warn you from my colleague, and agriculture requires a lot of work, a lot of professions and demands that are too heavy. So we need to educate young people to accept farming. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131278	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131279	He wouldn't agree if it weren't for space, in space forbidden to produce certain places and keep the treasure in his barns on farms, we say in Dalmatia in stables. Why, because here's why I speak for my unit of local self-government, simple farms, people who deal can't make a legal farm or produce money because they have restrictions 500 meters from neighbors, 300 meters from this so on to the storm at.../incomprehensible/... at Svilaj essentially make a farm because it's such a country, it's small plots, the neighbors are close and everybody smells. In Croatia, it smells like cattle to everyone, it's a fact, so people report, I mean, let's go, the triba means to relieve you, the triba law to respect it neatly, but we can't bring cattle and livestock production that there's nowhere to make a farm in Dalmatia or in the Cetina region, mainly spatial plans. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131280	We are now going to the next debate of fellow Djujic, so he loses his right to speak, and then it's time for a respected colleague, Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131281	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this subject, it is impossible not to look back at some of the things that we have heard before and in the presentations of colleagues Prelec on behalf of the SDP Club, and also what our citizens are talking about agriculture, we are talking about livestock, we are talking about food safety, and we now we see that unfortunately we have some things that we hoped would be different when we enter the common market or when we start using EU funds, but now we see that basically if things don't work out properly, unless the government is doing its job well that ultimately there is no excessive benefit. Which is why we're talking about the safety of our citizens, we're talking about food safety. We saw a case that bypassed unquality infected meat, I'd say, whole, whole inspection surveillance and everything that the state was supposed to do and came to our consumers, to our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The question is how can this happen and the question is how, when we do these rules, these laws, and in the Republic of Croatia, we ensure the quality of our food and our producer and our cattle, we actually see that if the Ministry of Agriculture does not do quality work, it does not mean anything to us, so that non-quality infected meat can come from other markets. The vague communication, the unclear procedures, the inconclusive excuses we've been listening to these days, and we haven't had the number of people exposed to unquality infected flesh, ringing the alarm. We here adopt laws that guarantee and that is good and enable our livestock and agriculture to be quality, that resources be quality, that this can be done as well as possible, and on the other hand we do not have adequate protection from whether we will have unquality goods, cattle, meat, whatever you want, products, come from the EU market and no one will even blink. Well, we remember the Minister of Agriculture when he was going into war with other countries, he was full of newspapers, full of newspapers, a man almost wanted to turn into an action superhero, he's fighting for Croatian production, for the market, this, what, now that the problems have occurred, when we see that our people are threatened and unquality goods, and even when we see that production from year to year falls, and we hear how incentives are never available. In some ways, a man would, at some point, imagine and wonder whether this man and this ministry and this government even live in the Republic of Croatia and think the way our farmers think. It was never harder for them, and it was never more like money and more incentives were not used and on that side I want to point one more thing, it means nothing either to enter the EU, nor to all those incentives if they are not used in quality and if they are shared in a non-transparent way, and there have been no number of cases where HDZ sponsors and people connected in agencies with those who have received incentives in some way that these incentives are not adequately and ineffectively used. One piece of information that is amazing is that we have deposited a kuna in the EU on every £2.00 for EU agriculture. So much for how much we pulled and how useful that is. When we add to that the import of food, to pay for German cheeses, Irish cheeses, meat coming from other continents, so not that we are in a minus as far as agriculture is concerned, but in three times as much as it has been so far and we need to talk about it here and we need to see how we can use it, how it is possible that Irish cheese comes to the Republic and costs three times less than or twice as much as the same quality cheese in the Republic. One reason surely lies in what my colleague Bulj was saying, which is constantly reducing our milk production year after year. And yet illogical, but justifiable question to all of us, how it is possible that everything is great, that we invest huge money in agriculture, that Minister Tolusic is doing it fantasticly, and that in two years, in 2016, the number of pigs that we grow in the Republic of Croatia and cows that give milk, means, in the Republic of Croatia, bodies, has fallen. Why do we import 40,000 tons of meat more than two years ago, and as more of it invests in agriculture, that's really a legitimate question, is that a illogical fellow HDZ? It is illogical for all in the Republic of Croatia and everyone sees it and sees no special benefit from all these open competitions, except of course, at present those farmers who get some incentive and then later on, I don't know if they can take advantage of it at all, because these are mostly small incentives, can they use it for more serious production. 60 and a few thousand, as my colleague Bulj producer said and who have domestic animals of the OPGs, I also speak here as a representative of one electoral unit, but two dominant counties, from that county comes our president HS and should have sensitivity to the Belgrade-Belgrade County and the Koprivnica-Crysing County because a fifth of all our OPGs operate in this area. So in two counties that are extremely agriculturally strong, but most possibly suffering under this, I would say, inefficiently the way that it is assigned, unorthodoxly and directed towards those who, I would say, and close to those who assign it, but after all, we can make laws, we can do miracles here, we can propose the best laws, if there's not going to be farmers that we do that, there won't be anyone. And I admire those people, in the counties or, in the OPGs, those hardworking people, the Bjelovar bilogorska and Koprivnica crosses, I say there are most of them, but of course there are represented all... County, I'm sorry it wasn't more important to take advantage of Lika. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we've seen a tour of like in an incredible number of ministers, the President of the Parliament was also there, everyone threw themselves at the character, now elections have passed, no one in Lica will be, and we're not even aware of how rich the country is and what could be working there and happening, but of course, now nobody's going to worry too much, got what it got, eventually the elections gave the same result, about as they were before. But in the end, the point is whether those 40,000 or 50,000 people who live there will still get that kind of attention, as they should get and as they've been getting in these weeks, as much as the last one was in election campaigns. To conclude, Mr. Secretary of State, welcome the minister who hasn't shown up here for months, probably has a lot of work or something else, I don't know, but send a message to him, that all the money he allegedly used from the EU, the effect, the big one didn't and that Croatia's half of the money, directly returned to the EU from that amount, and indirectly through taxes and food imports, probably 3-4 times more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131282	We're going to the replicas, we've got a colleague named Preleca, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131283	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Maras, I don't agree with you that there will be nothing left in Lica, there will be a bear, and the politician will be gone for a while until the election. And as for the investments in agriculture, here I don't know if the secretary of state knows how much we've been since it was created, or, since we joined the EU, how much we invested in agriculture, literally how much we invested in agriculture, but probably the same way as we invested in shipbuilding. The more we invest in agriculture, the worse our agriculture, the more we invest in shipbuilding, the worse our shipbuilding is. It's amazing what's going on in Croatia, here, if it has anything to do with, if we've invested more in shipbuilding, my colleague Hrelja is subfling me, that we've invested 30 billion dollars, probably in agriculture, 50 and more billion dollars. The fact that both our branches are in total collapse and I don't know what would be an excuse. Maybe it's best if we don't invest any more, maybe it'll be better in agriculture, and in shipbuilding, in the economy and in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131284	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131285	Thank you very much, I'm glad you asked me this question, the answer is very simple, so those who manage obviously don't manage in the right way and there's not a lot of analysis very simple when you see that money leaking and when I see these pointless discussions in the paper. As one is opposed, he will give 8 billion kunas or 4 or 5, so Maric and one and the other are against it, Horvat is in favour. In the end, this whole Google around the Oilies isn't happening now because of the workers, and that's the saddest thing going on about how many billions of kunas are going to turn around again and how someone's going to get them, which we probably don't even know who they are right now. So it's an oil story and trust me to transfer the burden to the last 25 years and now give someone 8 billion kuna, it's the only idea of Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131286	Thank you. Comrade Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131287	I thank Mr. President, I'm curious, colleague Maras, if you're saying that we really shouldn't have joined the EU, he doesn't listen to me, maybe not. I'm asking you to give me back my time. Then how am I going to replicate it? [[Adversity President: I won't give you your time, because the MP is not obliged to listen to you.]] So, fellow Maras, you really think we shouldn't have joined the EU? Do you really think that peasants can mate with peasants in the EU without incentive? You're talking about us not pulling anything now. Can you tell me how much we pulled when he was your minister, Jakovina? And that one single contest that was held was compromised. When we talk about withdrawing funds, related to well-being, Irish peasants receive 300 euros per stern, your government has not predicted it at all, only since last year has this government implemented it. Do you know what 300 euros per stern means? This means that every Irish farmer, every farmer, every citizen of Croatia, every year, is refurbished by every sow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131288	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131289	Thank you very much, Mr Križanić, you have obviously misunderstood my debate and I advocate for Croatia in the EU, for a strong Croatia that will fight for its interests, which is why I am also a candidate in the European elections. It would be illogical to run if I weren't for the EU. But what I want to tell you right now, I don't know if you know history and when we even joined the EU? I don't know, do you know that almost half of my government's mandate was over when we joined the EU? I don't know if you know that HDZ has been in power longer than the SDP was in power until the end of the EU mandate? So don't make excuses where they're not. Three years have passed, the results are gone and the situation is still bad. That's what I want to say and that's what I want to change. I'm not against it being applied, but don't call your brother on something that's been 7.8 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131290	Thank you, colleague Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131291	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Maras, we are EU members, part of the common European market and part of the system of implementing the common agricultural policy, and there is no development of agriculture, no investment. And how we're going to invest, what we're going to invest in is our own decision. Unfortunately, we see that bad policy has been conducted because the decline in production in most of both meat production and cereal production and in other types of processed food products. What's wrong with food safety, little or no investment in the system, and the question is whether we eat healthy food in Croatia should respond to veterinary inspections and sanitary inspections, and only 22 veterinary inspectors work at borders last year and have taken 14,000 samples. There were over 700 invalid samples. It says we have to invest in the system to protect our citizens, and on the other hand we have to invest in food production because what kind of state we are if we don't have enough food production in any segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131292	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131293	My colleague Vlaović, so you just said what I did and in my debate I scored the most. So, the story of Minister Tolusic and his HDZ colleagues breaks down here to explain how honey and milk flow in Croatia, but unfortunately it does not flow. I said, to every kuna we received from the EU in Croatia for agriculture, half the kuna was returned directly, we returned immediately, and 4 kn we paid German cheeses, Irish cheeses, beef, sausages from Hungary, etc. So that's what I'm talking about, it's not the point of Croatia being in the EU just to be a member. We need to benefit from that. Unfortunately, because of a part of the inefficientness and inconsistencies of the current Minister Tolusic, that is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131294	Before we move on to the next line, please welcome the students and pupils of the school of Economics, Mia Mirkovic, from Rijeka, welcome. ... And now it's my friend Lenart's turn, here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131295	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. You spoke well of the problems of some in agriculture. Unfortunately, our country encourages a series of productions that do not produce a product. We are encouraged by the garage, meaning that it is not produced and it only goes hand in hand to those who have come to a large amount of state agricultural land. As far as EU funds are concerned, whom I ask who applied, no one can get those funds. However, I mostly talk to people who don't have a HDZ membership card, so maybe that's why they get or don't get it. However, Stjepan Radic said that you took him to the one who is waiting for a round from another's bag and we will not develop agriculture if we wait for the EU because it is not in their interest to develop our agriculture. In the country, in Croatian, it will only get better when we see the tractors of Croatian peasants on the roads again and when they are fighting for their rights, not waiting for them to eat the big fish as they are now going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131296	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131297	Thank you very much. I mean, we all say the same thing. We all say the same thing. Well, Mr. Križanić probably thinks the same thing, he had to adjust the debate a little bit because of the situation that he can't be too critical of the fact that in Croatia we still don't have developed agriculture as it should be. We all say the same thing. But the problem is, the steps are small or nothing. That's the problem, unfortunately, and what you said. Well, of course no one will work in our interest unless we work in our own interests. But the problem is, in my opinion, the structure that is now in place is that it works in the interest of a very small number of people and, on the other hand, spreads great money on fire measures in agriculture that unfortunately do not ultimately produce results. It should have a clear concept that with the land, you should avoid forcing the commissioners to illegally They're assigning a new Agrokor country [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's what the Minister of Agriculture does, and that's what needs to be countered. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131298	Let's go to the last replica, colleague Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131299	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Col. Maras, you have shown by your debate that you do not really know what the situation is in Bjelovarska-Bilogorje County because, apart from having a lot of OPGs, young farmers and small OPGs and mediums, and also those who are large, withdrawing funds from the EU and by these means and buying machines and building new farms and buying new heifers that they bring to Croatia and these people who have worked hard for years, they are the ones who are now maintaining European agricultural resources in the Bjelovar-Belgar County. And I agree with you that honey and milk do not flow in Croatia. Especially not in agriculture. However, the fact that your government broke up agriculture for those four years will take many more governments to get to the level where we were when you came to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131300	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131301	Thank you very much, Mr. Totgergeli. From Bjelovarska, though, I didn't notice because many times you don't talk about your citizens' subjects, I didn't notice your performances in HS, so I replaced you, I thought you were from Koprivnica-Kristevina County, as you perform on behalf of the citizens of Bjelovar-Bilogor County. And what I'd like to say to you is that people know best what the situation is, not that honey and milk are running, milk is running less and less, honey is being imported from China, so on that side you shouldn't even be showing up after 3 years of government and saying that it's great in Bjelovar-Belgorian County because please, please find 10 people who will confirm it to you and then praise yourself in that way, and that those who directly rewarded you with certain incentives, so here, I apologize now, I hope after a few debates about Bjelovar-Belorland County, that I will remember which county you come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131302	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's your colleague Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131303	Thank you, Mr. President. I come from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and because you don't have a good memory, it's not my problem, and in this way you don't have to put your representatives in the wrong county once, even though I know where you're from, so you know where I come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131304	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, there was a debate that may have been a little inappropriate, but there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Maras, and you asked for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131305	Thank you very much. Mr. President, not a colleague of Totgergeli's or cited an article or anything, here's the 238. I actually wanted to commend him because as he solved all the problems in Bjelovar-Belgar County, I put him in Koprivnica. And I hope that from year to year we put it in every other county so that all Croatia will flourish, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131306	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either. Medium funny, no more than that, that's what we can do. Let's move on. There's now an individual debate of a respected colleague, Steve Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131307	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I didn't even want to report that I'm not prolonging this agony that must be endured by those watching this debate. Especially those who practice agriculture, especially cattle, because they listen to the mantras of individuals who have never seen any of the throats of cattle in their lives, and they don't even know what the front is. When I saw three famous characters from the Croatian Parliament in my village in the pompous position, we will save Slavonia and the Croatian village, and one of them hastily asked my son what you do and he said pig feed, and he asked him if it's difficult, here are our distinguished colleagues who quickly Google on the phone, look at the title of the topic and then googling here for discussion and replication, and then they would smarten up, mantras, argue, who? Those who listen to them and those who listen to them at first I said they're disgusted. Why are they disgusted? Well, they're disgusted because they see those who talk about their lives have no idea. They don't. Why do they have no idea, because they've never been in the country, they've never faced these life problems of those people who had to follow those laws of hasty and that they've been brought here for their own good? Now imagine one peasant who has to follow the smart law we'll bring here so they won't be in conflict with that law so they won't be held accountable. The topic is how much I see the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary and Medical Products Act. What does that mean? Well, it doesn't mean anything to us. So I come from the village of Jarmine, 2800 inhabitants were, now it's maybe 2500 or 2400, we haven't checked how many went out of Croatia, but, well, we don't have any cows. Our children already know that milk comes from a refrigerator long ago. The last horse in the village was me. And he's gone. Why did he leave? Well, because we don't have a vet anywhere near or around here. Who's doing this to us pigs? Well, whoever gets the scalpel first. I remember a doe from Ivanova, Kokarevic was his last name, known shocker, he had one change and he had a purse and he had a little brandy inside, and then he made the pigs, pull a little brandy, pour a little change, catch the pig with the kidneys white first, take it out and pour it out, and he watered himself and he went away and he was alive and well. And no vets. And we managed to destroy the village and in what way? Can't be understood by one who's never been to the country. Who never looked at what cream looks like, what it looks like, the foam that gets caught on the milk on a hand-milked cow, who's stepped up with it, who's been looking at it, who's been looking at his village when they're forced into a barn in the morning, full of pigs, and when they're selling those pigs, they come back, and they're calming down all the directors, the costs, and the taxes and the flat water and everything that's suffering them for the whole year. He doesn't know who's sitting here, takes 17 and goes on and he doesn't care because Google is the brains. I'll tell you another thing, we've brought a lot of reforms here, we've saved agriculture, every minister has come here and brought out his reform, he's the Messiah who's going to save Croatian agriculture, and besides the personal success of the same minister and the sweet one, the clicks around him, I don't see anything. He says let's round up the land. Great reform, rounding up the land, and what have we done with it? We have thus achieved one example, the village of Gaboš, at the entrance to the village of Gaboš, on the right side of the other house, one famous duke got from the Croatian state a new John Deera combination in peaceful reintegration, you know what he did? He ran into Novi Sad, like he's going to the fair, stayed, never came back. And then the second example, the other day I was in the village of Ada, going to Markusica, Podrinja, Ada, that's most of your Serb population, I ran into three brothers living in the same house and one of them got a trihinel five times. Imagine the man who survived the five trihinels. Intruder disease, for what? Because he explained to me this way, when a veterinarian comes in now, those who disinsect, deratize, and they come into the village and go from house to house and take a bag of nylon and put half a kilo of poisoned grain against rodents, and he looks at it, and then to eat it, he wouldn't care. So you imagine these desert villages, uninhabited, every fifth house inhabited to have someone live, some old man, get a bag there against those rodents. Imagine how many rodents there are. Well, it's a good thing he doesn't come to win the sixth time of the trihinel. It's about these petty problems. But look, I don't want to end up with ministers, not at all, I will also remember this last minister from the SDP government who was very good for the Croatian village but in the opposite direction. He personally pulled himself out of all debts, his business flourished, stocked up real estate, you fixed the budget, property card, all man filled up and man had the same vision for the Croatian village. Who did he help? Here's his program, I quickly found, says the new SDP minister's affair, the money for agriculture got the funeral home. Imagine the smart minister, how many such ministers swept away these HS, too, too many of them swept through here, too many of them buttered up those who were watching us, too. I had a cousin who was very successful, I still have him, he's still alive, he's not successful anymore, he's got 70 cows, he's got a mine-free field, he's got a cow farm the most modern, the whole family's been working inside and other people on the side, it's an example of a successful farmer, and those who've circled the land, and they've given it to those who only produce food, and they don't have cattle at home, they're the culprits and the ones who made it possible for them and those who planned that way of agriculture so they can import those orphans from France, Ireland, and everything else we buy. We've got a lot of shopping houses, we've all been walking around on Sundays, we can't wait for the weekend to catch those baskets, so we're racing between those shelves, wow action, 17,00 kn, 5.00 kn, 7, take, knock, for nothing, even if it's broken, even if we eat, we get cholesterol, it doesn't matter, but none of that lady Mare is going to buy an egg per kuna, organically produced. We're talking here and we've been buttering for a long time and I could do it in this direction, but I'll tell you one thing, long ago I've been on a study trip, I was under 20, I went to Austria and on one hill, the road divides two properties, left cows, cows go out, brushes comb them, pools, wastewaters, feces and other, on the right hand the drive for producing cheese, cocoa, milk and... parked at that time, it is loaded directly from the freezer to the school, to kindergartens, their product on the Austrian hill, and I in Slavonia where I can have thousands of cows, I have no one to offer no more cheese, no milk, no cream because we no longer have children enrolled, or in that Ada where Serbs are inhabited, Markusici, Podrinj, and God forgive me neither in Jarmina. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131308	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cule. We have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131309	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey, here, I must tell you that with the debate of yours, I have almost fully agreed and I have already given up on you and said I will never agree with Culejo, but here, now the debate that you have given is one debate that clearly illustrates the situation in Croatian agriculture. But now I'm thinking of taking your debate, writing it and asking Minister Tolusic to resign. This all you've just said, this all you've said now is the reason for Minister Tolusic to step down this moment because obviously, if we don't have any horses in Jarmina, no cows, so what kind of business does Minister Tolusic do? What kind of work does the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and all that we want? Nothing, bad, so be honest, open up, let's let go of party discipline and say what you think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131310	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer me, Comrade Culey, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131311	Dear colleague Maras, you'd be both a cop and a juror and a judge, and if you didn't listen to the minister to finish his term, you'd file a report for him, and then you'd judge. Let's talk about all those who were before him because the village hasn't failed since Tolusic's arrival, and I don't know if it will make any progress, we'll see each other at the end of the term, don't be a judge until we have all the facts on the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131312	Thank you, colleague Culey. On behalf of the Representatives' Club MOST final word, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131313	My colleagues and colleagues, here I am, veterinary and medical products in the Republic of Croatia, it is the law, amendments to the law. The directive that we often bring here on a day-by-day basis, here is the largest part of the directive and harmonisation with European legislation. However, another topic has opened up which is much more important, and it is a much more important topic that we all say that, here's what my colleague was saying in Slavonia, I know what's in Dalmatia Zagora is living here, I'm going to live there, I was born in the country, I'm a peasant and I know when I was little that we had two, three cows, three pigs, four pigs, we had chickens, we sold it in the markets, and that's what we were dealing with. The father worked at the company, the company as a transport worker, mother and housekeeper, and so we worked and lived and only I had a lot of lives, now I can't hear a child's cry, there's no cattle, and we're talking here about agriculture all the time and release the directive, here's the law, which, changes the law, while we, today, here in the Cetina region, we have a huge sonic field, 2019. We do not have a irrigation system, and through the srid fields goes clean, clear river Cetina and people who deal with agriculture have a problem because in the srid lita they have a drought if there is no irrigation system in 2019, and to Split, the largest pool we have 30 km away, near Makarska, Zadar, we are in the center of Dalmatia where tourism blooms and of course what problem we have? We have a problem with our production dropping, tourism growing, so what tourists use, what we sell to tourists. The tourism law prohibits renters from providing food with half-boarders and pensioners with food from the OPGs, e.g. in Sinj, e.g. in Drnis in the Sibenik rear, flat wheels, forbidden in front of.../incomprehensible/... let alone something else. Instead of encouraging domestic production, we favor major corporations to sell imported goods. As for the withdrawal of European funds, we are at the bottom and that is the problem and we have to strengthen the village and planically, so the planning documents to make the farms easier to build, that is first and that is one big brake and a little forget about this, the triba legally edit and drain and everything that stands, but it can't happen to everyone that smells like cattle. First of all, we have to start by ourselves, don't smell the prosciutto again, I don't smell the prosciutto, they don't smell their homemade cheese, they don't smell anything, but they always have some kind of dispute. So we, above all, changed the mental circuit completely, we need to strengthen the village because without the village 2/3 of Croatia there is no rich state, and that is, we can very easily see for it. Let's go to my son through Lyco, and you'll see no cattle, and not so long ago. And all laws that are passed must be passed in the interest of protecting domestic production, it cannot happen that the ministry that would protect agriculture protect and import lobby. The harmful, bad food that we import, I always mention that Pasha cheese, how they do the waste disposal in the middle of this ice, fits.../incomprehensible/... when sheep also feed that brand of Croatian who would triangulate. It's easy to do this waste dump now, instead of encouraging people to deal with the production of Pag cheese, to encourage people to produce pigs, not to import GMO-fed GMO pigs. I have given this law here, of course, that lobbyes have affected that not to vote, that there is no production of GMOs, that there is no imports and sales of GMOs, but that we promote and mark domestic production and that the state encourages domestic production and that this country pays the peasants for free of all these, these vaccinations all they need, it would tribal, it means anything to be free, and we did not bring that we no longer have villages or peasants, unfortunately more so we lose the state as well. Without rich villages, there is no rich country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131314	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull, for this final word. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131315	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 582, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that a unanimous 81 vote for, is passed, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary and Medical Products Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131316	Dear colleagues and colleagues will now, as we decided yesterday, on a proposal from the Committee on Agriculture from the next 12 points of the agenda, conduct a united debate. Is there any need to read all 12? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 583 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on tobacco, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 584 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 585 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 2003/2003 on fertilisers, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 586 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 587 - Proposal for a Law amending the Food Information Act, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 588 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 589 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on the protection of animals, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 590 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Family Agricultural Economy, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 591 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on forest reproductive material, with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 592 - Proposal for a Law amending the law on hunting, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 593 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 594 The applicant of the acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I ask the representatives of the motionary, the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak, to give us an additional explanation of the proposal of these laws. Here you go, Mr. Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131317	Thank you, Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary MPs, here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to amend and supplement a total of 12 specific laws of the Ministry of Agriculture, whose adoption is proposed for the implementation of the National Reform Programme for 2018, which sets out measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, in particular measures 4.1 and 4.1.1 respectively, thereby bringing together economic inspections as a basis for more effective inspection operations in the specific case of inspection controls carried out in the Ministry of Agriculture. The harmonisation of the laws in question with the State Inspectorate Act regulates the provisions relating to inspection supervision of the implementation of these laws since the inspection operations of agriculture, veterinary, hunting, forestry and phytosanitary inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture have been taken over by the State Inspectorate since 1 April 2019. The amendments to the Consumer Information Act on Food remains the Ministry of Agriculture, and official controls on law enforcement will be carried out by agricultural, sanitary, veterinary inspectors of the State Inspectorate or by fishing inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture. Provisions relating to the jurisdiction of the exercise of official controls resulting from the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals on animal health and animal welfare, as the activities of official controls and veterinary and sanitary inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health have been taken over by the State Inspectorate since 1 April 2019. So far, business of official control of the fisheries inspection remains under the law at the Ministry of Agriculture. The multiannual plan of official controls is being developed by the Ministry of Agriculture. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt these laws by emergency procedure in order to avoid the occurrence of legal gaps in the conduct of inspection services within the State Inspectorate as of 1 April 2019 as well as the purpose of ensuring the proper, effective and effective functioning of the state administration in the administrative areas taken over by the State Inspectorate from individual central authorities of the State Administration. The implementation of these laws does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131318	I thank Mr. Secretary of State, we have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131319	Thank you very much, this is essentially the harmonisation of the law. under the same inspectorate, all of these body controls, so here we have the amendments to the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, then the same inspectorate was united, not separated at the time when it was mixed up to the warehouse, which was in Đakova, it seems to me, stored, tones and tones were then, 9000 trucks were mixed up, so I would like you to keep an eye on whether I don't know what your relationship with that inspector who was brought in lex Mikulić, who was brought in to, as you would now control, that the same thing would happen to sweep all the barns, the complete warehouse of 9,000 grain vehicles was gone during the inspector who was unique. What will be your cooperation now, and how will you control that that doesn't happen, to sweep all the warehouses? That 9,000 grain trucks go missing? [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131320	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Next replica, respected colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131321	.../Speaker off/...g. Vice President HS. Mr. Secretary of State, the competent authority for food according to all changes to the laws remains the Ministry of Agriculture. Accordingly, I predict that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health can transfer tasks to the control bodies in the system of official food control, and that each ministry then controls or monitors its control body accordingly. I am now interested, therefore, in the process of adopting a multiannual plan of official controls according to the level of risk involved the inspectorate, so who controls or oversees the work of the control bodies involved in food control, inspectorate or the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131322	Answer, Mr. Queen, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131323	Thanks for asking. As regards the supervision of official controls on control authorities, the State Inspectorate, and the administrative supervision of the contract to give public authority to control authorities, will be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture is organizing, and the State Inspectorate is conducting official controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131324	Thank you for your response. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? No, thank you very much. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131325	Dear Mr. Vice-President HS, Mr. Secretary of State, I warmly welcome you, colleagues and colleagues, to this set of agricultural laws, is being implemented by the Government's decision of 2.8.2018. for the functional merger of agencies and the reduction of agencies, institutions and other institutions with public authority, and all in direct connection with the establishment of the State Inspectorate, and the transfer of all inspections, other than the fishing industry to the single inspection body, the State Inspectorate. The goal is to rationalise the number of people, but also to reduce the costs of these legal entities. Financial budget decommissioning will only be seen, but it is certain that the combined agricultural agencies will no longer have directors, drivers, secretaries and escorts. Of course we hope this is the first step and the beginning of a serious reduction in the total number of officials, not just the transition of public officials to civil servants. The amendments and additions to these laws from the Ministry of Agriculture that we are discussing today are directly due to the changes that bring together agricultural agencies and institutions and their involvement and alignment with the affairs of the State Inspectorate's inspection. It is about adapting, amending and supplementing the Law amending the Law amending the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, amending the Law on Tobacco, amending and supplementing the Law on fertilising and improving soils, the Law amending the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, amending the Law on the Implementation of the Law on Plant Protection, amending the Law on Plant Protection, amending the Law on Food Information, amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Animals, implementing the EU Animal Protection Regulation, the Family Agricultural Economy, the Law on Forest reproductive material, the Law on Hunting and the Law on Official Controls, which shall be implemented in accordance with the rules on food, food and animal health and animal welfare. In all of these laws, there is a change in the structure of the business round, and in particular inspection supervision that passes to the State Inspectorate. The Agency for Agriculture and Food will also carry out activities to protect agricultural land, as well as to monitor agricultural land as a reference laboratory, as well as to monitor as expert institutions the consumer's risk assessment of pesticide residues. As regards the Food Information Act, the competent authority for the implementation of this body shall be the Ministry of Agriculture, the power of the Minister of Agriculture to carry out delegated tasks by the European Commission shall be conferred on the European Commission, and the European Commission shall be empowered to regulate the matter necessary for the implementation of this law. In the implementation of the EU Animal Protection Regulation, the inspectorate shall take control of the animal resorts and the costs incurred as a consequence of inspection of the consignment of animals shall be borne by the carrier at rest. The State Inspectorate shall carry out the approval procedure of the vehicle or vessel for the transport of animals, as well as in the process of removing them. The competences of the forest inspector and the coordination of the name of the competent authority of the state administration in the conduct of the fitness of sanitary inspectors have also been complemented, in amendments to the Law on forest reproductive material. The amended Act on official controls on food and feed provides for the mandatory cooperation of the State Inspectorate with the competent food authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the part-time work on official controls carried out in accordance with animal food regulations, animal health and animal welfare. Accordingly, it is foreseen that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health may transfer certain tasks to the control bodies in the system of services of controls, and each ministry, organises and monitors the same for its control body. In the process of adopting a multiannual plan of official controls, the national inspectorate shall be included in the risk level developed by the competent authority. The State Inspectorate shall cooperate with the customs authorities in carrying out official border checks in accordance with Article 69. The Veterinary Act. Finally, a set of laws on the merger of the Agency in agriculture, as well as laws relating to the transfer of all inspections, other than the fishing State Inspectorate, aims at co-ordination and vertical in the decision-making system, as well as greater functionality and efficiency in the Ministry of Agriculture, on the one hand, and in the inspectorate on the other. With this kind of... You should be more rational and cheaper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ Club will support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131326	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, the next debate on the name of the Living Walls Club and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please come in, colleague Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131327	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with associates, among other things, today we are discussing food declaration, which is a very important topic, which in Croatia alone, which is formally spoken of in Croatia, and the food is very weak or in no way marked. Those attending their own meeting, the Joint Committee on Health and the Committee on Agriculture, could hear among other things that food has been the main cause of increased rates of disease in Croatia, and even in some way increased mortality, as we can see that in Croatia, unfortunately, the life expectancy has been reduced lately, which is very regrettable because we see that in EU countries, life expectancy has extended. And it's quite clear that we have to link this situation to the food we eat, that is, the food we eat, and we don't know which one it came from. The issue is very important to highlight the problem of GMOs, of which Croatia is reportedly free, and we have quite relevant information, that over 1000 of the intentions we eat, or, which are available to us, contain GMOs. This is very important information for reasons because, for GMOs, no long-term research has been done, or research has been done on what happens to humans or animals who consume GMOs for a few weeks or a few months, but it is not known what happens if such food is consumed for years or decades. Inspecting Croatia's control, she found a few years ago, that for human food, 12% of the intended food, means it contains GMOs, while the livestock food used in Croatia is even 90% of the GMOs and is usually imported through the port of Kopar, first of all, corn and soy. It is important to note that behind the production, GMO food stands the largest company named Monsatno, which was originally the manufacturer of battle poisons. It is particularly well known when Monsanto produced war poisons to work in Vietnam, which therefore destroyed complete forests and all the environment, so that U.S. military troops could identify the rebels more easily. Among other things, Monsanto produced insecticide DDT, which was banned in '70. years and many other poisons that have been banned in the meantime, but unfortunately, GMOs have not yet been banned. Among other things, Monsanto is known for its green contracts, which only in India blamed the death of more than 300 thousand Indian farmers, who had to commit suicide because it was the only way to break the contract. Statistics say that during Monsant's contracts, there was a suicide every 30 minutes in India, and even then, in those agricultural areas, there was a special so called. Suicide zones. In the end, there was a rebellion in India, farmers themselves, above all in the province of Bihar, which completely rejected any artificial seed returned to the indigenous seed of origin, began to produce food exclusively organic and, most importantly, proved, that with such food, contrary to GMOs, they had twice as much to offer, which is their most important cost being much cheaper and the impact on health and nature better not to speak. The success in Indian farmers, among other things, was witnessed by Nobel Prize winner Josef Stotic, who, therefore, informed the scientific public, and it is very interesting that some politicians were engaged in the problem, and even the British heir Charles said that in India, I quote the GMO genocide. So India has since 2017 returned to organic seed, GMO seed, GMO food has been expelled from India, but unfortunately it has not yet been kicked out of Croatia. Except Monsatno produces GMO seeds and, therefore, blamed the deaths of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people, either in wars, through green contracts, Monsanto produces and herbicide glyphosate, for which last year, finally confirmed what we were in the Living Wall long ago saying that gliphosates are causing cancer. So last year, we have a U.S. peasant verdict that Monsanto has to pay off 300 million dollars not only because he got cancer using glyphosate, but because they knew that glyphosate was causing cancer and they still sold that product. So they consciously did evil, and that's why the verdict was so high. In Croatia, again, we have a situation that Minister Tolusic allowed the use of glyphosate until 2023, and there is the most famous product of cidocor herbicide that is widely used in olive groves, vineyards and orchards. On the other hand, I would ask not only the parliamentary representatives but all the Croatian citizens that we eat, what we eat and what health we are, what kind of energy we are. I would ask Minister Tolusic and the ministry's representatives here why you don't implement the 2005 law, meaning 14 years old that food must be marked whether or not it has GMOs. Why don't you implement the law that's already in force? How is it possible that all not only EU countries but even non-EU countries like Serbia have long marked such food and only we have not marked it? Is just because of a statement by the Minister of Health that the declaration of GMO food endangers the profits of corporations. Is it your task to implement the laws of the Republic of Croatia, to worry about the health of Croatian citizens or to worry about corporate profits? Obviously, according to your behavior, this is different. I would remind you that in addition to GMOs in many countries, food is declared in different ways, so you can read about food whether it contains preservatives, whether it contains additives, whether it contains colors etc.. Let's say there's a particular danger in what's called the so-called danger. Canned food often containing a controversial chemical of bisphenol which is not declared should also be declared and people should therefore be informed of what this specifically means for their health. We also have a situation in Croatia that many foods are falsely declared as healthy, for example, without sugar, while putting aspartame 200 times sweeter than sugar and causing serious health problems. Also for that food that says no fat is put in substitute fats that are much more dangerous than natural fats. This should therefore be managed in some way by the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as the additive is concerned, Croatian citizens should know that we eat about 7kg of additives annually in food. So we eat one full bag of additives. Normally, we eat that amount of additives in one day to die, but when it's deployed to 365 days then we don't die at the same time, but it's very easy to cut our lives short. All these additives are covered up in a way that the declarations are written in such small letters that they cannot even be seen with a healthy eye and let alone, especially with the help of glasses and people who have weaker vision and hide in letters E and the number that goes with that letter E, and then you see that in some food there is an additive E316 or E524 but you don't know what it really means. So the Ministry of Agriculture should inform people about these additives. Also, as much as I have seen on shelves in foreign stores, food is often marked on whether it contains antibiotics or does not contain antibiotics. There is no mention of that in Croatia. So today is, let's say it's such a trend that farmers give animals antibiotics. And all statistics show that today about two-thirds of antibiotics are spent on animal nutrition. So a lot less people use antibiotics than animals. And worst of all antibiotics are given to healthy animals, means not to the sick but to the healthy, not for reasons to prevent diseases, but because they get faster weight with antibiotics. It is precisely this excessive use of antibiotics that makes antibiotics resistant bacteria develop today, which has an indirect impact on human health. Last year, the World Health Organization called on cattlemen not to give antibiotics to animals at all. What has the Ministry of Agriculture done about it? Absolutely nothing. And then, normally, that's why there's serious consequences. Here I have repeatedly written Minister Kujundzic and received the following information, among other things in Croatia the cancer rate grows year after year. So we don't literally have a single year to get the cancer rate to drop at least temporarily, but every year we have more and more dead. Croatia is currently in the world of the 6th country at the rate of cancer mortality and there is not even a document called the national anti-cancer strategy. Also, according to official data from the Ministry of Health in the last 10 years, infertility has increased by 43% in women. Where does this infertility come from? Do we have the right to suspect that the real GMO is the cause of this infertility? Why is today about 17-20% of couples in Croatia, infertile or infertile, cannot have children? Does that have an impact on that demographic disaster that I've been saying all along? We have an example. The official study, done on Danish pigs' farms, where 30 thousand pigs were observed, half of which ate GMO food, and the other half ate organic food. And it has been observed, therefore, that these animals, or pigs, that ate GMOs, have far, far less offspring than they have animals that ate organic food. Not only do they have far fewer offspring, but their life span has been significantly reduced, but among other things they have had three times more health problems, but the animals that ate organic food. According to official data, which we received from the Ministry of Health, the number of autistics in Croatia increased by as much as 5 times in the 21st century. Again, we can ask the question, which is why and ultimately, how much these diseases affect the health of the population as well as mortality. There is a tendency very serious, that soon, let's say, cancer patients, will skip the number of patients with cardiovascular diseases, i.e., this will be the main cause of mortality, therefore, a disease that did not exist until about 50 or 100 years ago in Croatia at all. So much for now, I'll say the rest in my individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131328	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131329	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State with Associates, and here we have these 12 united points, and I have been on the Committee on Agriculture for and we will be in the SDP for all these bill proposals. I think they're going in the right direction about this, but this is now and it's an opportunity to talk about general things, as here, my colleague Bulj is talking about general things, as well as his colleague, Bunjac, now, some problems in agriculture, so I'm going to say some things that I would take advantage of, when we talk about agriculture and everything that's about agriculture, which we're making suggestions and what we don't think is good. Point 1 of this proposal of the Law is the proposal of the Law amending the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. Now there's an opportunity to talk a little bit about the use of cannabis for medical purposes. I'm going to read some things here, and I'm going to talk out of my head, just to be clear, I'm going to give it to the public but I'm going to give it to everyone here, who listens, a little bit of an impression of that problem. Namely, Luksetić, Mr Luksetić, and we all know who Mr Luksetić, who is suffering from multiple sclerosis at the end of January, was confirmed a first-degree verdict, sentenced to 2 years of unconditional prison for the illegal production of marijuana for sale, although in his defence, Mr Luksetić claimed to have bred marijuana for the production of cannabis oil, which alleviates the symptoms of this severe disease. After that, shortly, his lawyer said, quote, he's not well, since he's been treated, his condition has deteriorated, but no one will answer for it. Next, we move on, this morning I signed a pardon to Juanita Luksetic and we sent all the documents to the Ministry of Justice, which should be reported to Mr Luksetic, that is, his legal representative, on this pardon. President Grabar Kitarovic said in an interview with Croatian Radio on the show. Well, now I've gone this way and I don't think this makes any sense at all. First we judge a man, so we let him use further oil for his treatment, and we know what it means to lose his health, God forbid any of us to go through it, whether children, family or anyone in the family, and then here, that same Luxetic, we ban use, we arrest him, and then there comes a pardon from the president, we pass the laws, and then we break them, and then comes the president who pardons all of them. I really don't see the point of all this together anymore. We have been talking for years and asking for a real debate on cannabis for medical purposes, or the use of cannabis for medical purposes, however, nothing is happening. So far, about this subject, the stories, here we are afraid to legalize cannabis because of abuse. Clearly, there should be reasonable doubt and fear of abuse, but I will now tell you, there is a good proverb, in Scandinavian countries, I think that's what they say in Sweden, better that we have three criminals on the loose than one innocent in prison. And I'm going to say in this case, you better see, a Lucsetic or something like that gets better and eases his pain, as far as the use of this oil is concerned, that we have three of those who are going to use it. That's my opinion, and that's what I'm going to stand for, and that's exactly what we in the SDP stand for. If there's any chance we can help sick people, let's do it. And if those weren't just empty words, I'd read you some things from the confessions of the people who were being treated, here's confession, one Zagrebian. Of course cannabis oil, no one buys in the pharmacy, we make it ourselves, and it's cheaper. I've never used drops based on medical cannabis from a pharmacy. There are more reasons for this, first you need a white recipe, which is hard to get, and doctors are not exactly always copying those preparations, and secondly, a monthly dose should pay about 3000 kuna, which is absolutely too much for my standard and I don't think of spending it. Is it falling or not falling, but I can relate to him with what kind of problems he's having. Cannabis-based preparations, unfortunately, are condemned to the black market. Now, here in the last two years, Minister Kujundzic had no need to call a medical cannabis commission, which is his discretionary right. There have been new scientific medical knowledge and the effects of cannabinoids in this 2 years, and the commission has been prevented from evolving the results of the application of existing regulations and from correcting the medicine to be available to the sick. The consequence is that patients in Croatia are unreachable cannabis preparations because the price is too high, the recipe is difficult to get, the competition is not available because the importer is the only Immunological Institute, two available preparations do not satisfy patients and indications are not extended according to new scientific knowledge. Well, here's one topic of these 12 that we have here, so I'm asking you on behalf of all those who are sick, and that's our suggestion, that we all sit down together and see what we can do about this problem, or the use of cannabis for medical purposes. Here are some more topics here I will specify and update about agriculture because this is all 12 topics we are talking about, and this is generally about Croatian agriculture. Croatia's agriculture is at its historic minimum, especially with regard to livestock and dairy, and the current government has passed laws that are not implemented and the latest case of the implementation of the Agricultural Land Act has shown that this is not how agricultural policy is conducted anywhere. Of the three meals in Croatia, two are from imports, I'll repeat this. Out of three meals in Croatia, two are from imports. And even though we've invested huge amounts of money over 1 billion euros just through the SAPARD IPARD and according to my data, 35 billion kuna is invested in agriculture through various incentives, perhaps a little more, perhaps a little less, what effect do we have? Although we've invested huge amounts of money through rural development programmes, our production is down 40% compared to before, by 5 billion kuna compared to 10 years ago. Five billion kuna in relation to ten years ago. We've become a country dependent on food imports, and the question is, what could happen to us is major global disturbances. For 3 years, we have lost about 100 million gallons of milk and our self-sufficiency is among the lowest in the EU. Croatia lacks a clear strategy that will say what we want and we can and should produce. It should be the basis after which laws will be passed that will follow such a clear strategy. I have one example and it's tied to this 100 million liters of less milk that we've been producing lately, and I've also updated it on the Committee on Agriculture, namely there's a close-up cooperative that's here, trying to raise, up to 40 employees and over 60 co-operatives, having problems getting, they need a loan of 2 million, you listen, 2 million kuna to save 40 jobs and 60 cooperatives. And those 2 million kunas can't be won because clearly, HBOR tells them they don't have a good balance. It turns out that in Croatia you can get a loan if you have a good balance and a bunch of money in your account. But credit for people like that doesn't need it. People don't need that kind of stuff. Such cooperatives don't need loans. I now appeal to you, dear secretary of state, to really use all your knowledge, your skills, your time and your minister to help these producers, here's what I'm going to say, which is a cooperative, and I'm asking you to notice people, these are concrete things, we're passing laws here, and the laws don't mean anything to our farmers. I'm talking about 2 million kunas that would save cooperatives, 40 employees and 60 cooperatives and we spent 35 billion kunas in agriculture through various incentives. Let's go, people, we're breaking laws, we're making concrete proposals, we're refusing concrete help, because HBOR said they don't have a good balance. These are the specific problems in agriculture, so we should all make a pledge together to solve it, please, all of you here who are present to receive concrete people, and while we listen, let's see how we help them. Antun Laszlo, a member of the expert council, says the association, asked to carry out a review of the distribution of state land because different laws were implemented from a distance in 1993 when the domestic privatisation of agricultural combinations was carried out. Every minister and government has an idea and a vision of how to share the state land but also our agricultural products that are nothing but visible that no reform has been good. Our villages are empty, young people are leaving and we're still going round and round, Laszlo pointed out. And when Mr. Collar talked about how to listen to people who really do produce, this is the man who's really talking about production and problems. Mr. Laszlo, I think we should respect him in all this together. All the stuff that's been privatized and done with the state's land so far is nakarad. There is some written evidence that even before the deal reached about Agrokor, a special company was built to transfer land lease rights for certain companies from Agrokor system. The lease right was transferred to the company... what is the name of the Croatian, which was founded in June last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are concrete things. What makes farmers unhappy? What's agriculture getting us back? And we write laws, there's good laws, 12 of them here in the set. And did we specifically do something to make this kind of thing impossible, to make it a fair distribution of land, to help concrete farmers? I think very little. Keep going. Croatia has until 2020 2.4 billion euros for rural development, which is the means for improving the business of the economy, building infrastructure and obtaining machinery. And then with all that together, we have statistics that say. Croatia is the EU's worst member of the EU, after the EU's use of structural investment funds. By the end of 2018 57.54% were agreed and 21.54% and 1.98 billion euros were paid, respectively. Money's ours, and we don't use it. It is the Ministry of Agriculture and all agencies' duty to help farmers withdraw as much money from the EU funds as possible, and we have repeatedly made it impossible with our regulation. I know a specific example, here in my community. There are EU funds my municipality cannot even contact. Why? Because we're in the 7th or 8th group of development. What are we talking about? The 7th and 8th groups of development, such as that high degree of development. Gentlemen, we are all poor towards the EU, according to their units of local self-government, and then we make it impossible for municipalities and cities to run at all because they are allegedly in Group 7 and 8. That's what happens to farmers. Farmers can't run in some cases because we've got too much going on, because we've got too much to deal with. Because we are making it impossible for ourselves to use EU funds, and now I have told you how many unused EU funds we have. How much money is there, we pay EU membership fees, and we don't use it. It is our job, it is your job at the Ministry of Agriculture to help farmers, simply to get as much money out of the EU as possible, not to have a pile of money, but therefore, Croatia would not be dependent on importing food. And today it is. Of the 3 meals in Croatia, two are from imports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131330	I thank my colleague Preleco. We're moving on to the next debate on behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131331	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Nothing happens in Croatia, and nothing happens by chance, so neither does this harmonisation of the law in order to create a mega-inspection that will lead one man, today one political option, tomorrow another political option that will have a big beating and be able to row and dress in this country. Unfortunately, we need to talk about many of the problems that are in the set of these laws that are ahead of us today. The first one he'd talk to is the warehouse. Unfortunately, this warehouse has never lived in that right form to be a valid document for guaranteeing our farmer when he raises or borrows money, as a colleague not those who have a lot of money in the account but those who do not have money and in order to finance their own production or their own property, this warehouse would very well come to them. The storage of agricultural products, especially cereals is a very important branch in which unfortunately today in the Republic of Croatia everyone understands and everyone thinks that they can handle cereals in a fair way, and we are witnessing on the ground in the campaigns buying grains, that cereals are treated in all kinds of ways. There are many who treat these grains inadequately. But there are always someone's people, some local powers that are all seen through their fingers, and then such grains are sold according to that principle, order of fish, order of salt, and again a row of fish, and that sells everything and good and bad, and in the end, it is consumed by our citizens or citizens of some other countries where this is exported. The Law on Plant Protection also, the protection of plants in the Republic of Croatia, is also becoming problematic because we are under pressure from the EU every day deprived of a number of means of protection without their adequate protection. So, the soybean producers are slowly coming into trouble, as well as all those seeds that are sown, and should have initial protection, they are slowly left without a verse of the means that can be treated for seed and that can protect it qualityly from pests at its most sensitive stage, means inoculation, where consciously our producers are given the opportunity to lose because they simply cannot defend themselves against land pests that are despite climate change, i.e. Thanks to climate change, there are more and more of them. I feel it on my skin, and many of my colleagues are attacking these pests that significantly dilute crop assemblies that are sown. Food protection and information for consumers about food is a particular topic in Croatia because we know that unfortunately food sold in Croatia and that all those who do not produce it are essentially dependent on what they buy in various shops, centres, and they simply have to consume it to survive, and mostly or very often it happens that it is not quality-labelled or that in some way it deceives the consumer who buys this food, so if it comes in a large package in Croatia, it is packed in Croatia and it is written in Croatia, and it means it is being wronged by the consumer. When the big and naturally unfinished affair with meat from the Polish slaughterhouses broke out, we warned from the HSS and from this pay phone that it was not just 2 slaughterhouses, but that in Poland but also in many other countries, as well as in those from which we import meat-like practices of dealing with sick animals that are either infected or their meat is incorrect for human consumption. The affair is talked about in countries where this meat came from, but unfortunately in Croatia it is silenced. So the question is why is it being kept silent in Croatia, just to make the import lobby as much money as possible. The Minister of Agriculture Hallabuku is raised only when it is learned from the media, unfortunately we have learned from the media that he ate quite a kebab in Croatia from meat that came from Poland i.e. before that imported from Slovenia. How much of this kind of food the media doesn't know about and doesn't alarm public space, which passes through human organisms in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a devastating fact that we are the only EU member with an increase, a significant increase in tumour diseases and the only member in which the life expectancy of man has been reduced. Despite all the medical wonders of today's time in Croatia, life expectancy is reduced. For what? Says one saying you're what you eat, that's why. We in Croatia unfortunately eat garbage. Those who are not aware of it and do not want to admit it do good neither to themselves nor to the Croatian people. Because according to some procedures, some people could be sued for the high treason and poisoning of the Croatian people. For me, this is not funny because every day we testify to it and every day despite being quite aware of it, it's inevitable that we consume such food because we simply don't know that it's wrong or it doesn't say that it should be or should be written in very small letters, so mostly people can't read it or consume food where it's prepared from foods, so you don't even know what you're eating. On some products in Croatia, you should write best, under the deadline until you use it never, because they have such a quality that they are not for the Republic of Croatia for consumption, but how does legislation work just as well that and you have good evidence you can't help it because we can simply see by all these judgments that happen that it's lax and that you can't get legal to clean up. The GMO we talked about at the time the law was passed is also something that entered Croatia at a small door and is far more present than we can imagine in Croatia, and we consume it all unfortunately every day. We've had an affair about salmonella, about escherichie coke that is much easier to detect than GMOs, and we haven't heard that there are such problems lately, and we know that there are. For what? In order not to touch large trade chains, so as not to touch big lobbys that have powerful assets and large financial budgets from which they can cover their problematic business and simply be a state in the state, and the state that has a state in it is not a state. The Family Economics Act also comes in this set that goes towards inspections, which means it will be united in this debate over the unification of inspections. Family farms, no matter what praises they may have to grow, grow their number slowly but surely disappear. The big fish eat small fish slowly, when the big fish eat all the small fish will remain hungry and they will die if they are not eaten by bigger fish. Unfortunately, today having a family agricultural economy, 20, 30, 50 hectares in the Republic of Croatia is not easy. You, when you go into production, the only thing you know about how much imputes, repromaterials, fuel, parts of machinery are, but who, when and at what cost you will sell your product, it is unknown, and you have an unknown factor dear God and you go into such production, believe me, it is not easy, and especially those who have to be in charge to start production and have to sell their product when it is cheapest. I just hope that the future time these inspections will loosen up a little bit towards family farms, that all these obstacles that are being put before these economies will be reduced because these people have to deal with agricultural production where they have a lot of problems for them to survive and be rentable, and the excessive administration that is ahead of them is a terrible weight, because there are a lot of people who are not able to cope or in this information area who cannot follow all these strong laws that are produced in the Republic and which are simply produced, so what happens and because they are often left without support or they are being reduced or banned for a few years. We believe that this does not contribute in any way to the development of agriculture, and here is what the president said the other day that 60 billion kuna was invested in agriculture, and our agriculture is on the historical lowest production since the beginning of the Republic of Croatia. Where did we put that money, where that money was spent, and did that money go wrong, did we put state agricultural land in the wrong hands? Why the inspections didn't work on Agrokor when he didn't pay concessions or lease for state agricultural land, over 70 million kuna, why didn't they break those contracts, but here today we are witnesses of why they didn't break up, because some of the companies that took over Agrokor and agricultural land have come, now some other company that will simply drown it and the Croatian man has lost 30 and some thousand hectares of state agricultural land which are still being pressured to rent at far cheaper prices than renting to Croatian farmers. I, from this pay phone, appeal to the mayors of the municipalities not to sign these contracts, or if they already have to sign them, let our peasants have such low prices of renting state agricultural land and normally, throughout the Republic of Croatia, make it even. I only hope that this unification of inspection will not be used for political accounts in the Republic of Croatia, which would not be any surprise to us, whether it will be more effective, I doubt it because when there is nothing to do, then it is rounding up, when there is no other way to do, then it is reunited, we have seen today, we have seen that an advisory agricultural service drowned in the Ministry of Agriculture which was still the only link between that small peasant and the state, but, however, everything that is being brought forward today, everything that goes on, goes on to further the objective of reducing and destroying Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131332	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131333	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, it is regrettable to know that today with all the resources that the Republic of Croatia has with 35 000 square kilometres of fertile land with a beautiful climate, with large water reserves, we produce only 60% of food for domestic needs. We heard during this debate that in schools two meals of three that are eaten are from imports. We import today literally everything, importing wine, oil, importing potatoes, tomatoes, carrots, so meat, no products we don't import, and at the same time importing it is not other classes, not third classes, but some 150 classes and essentially nowhere in the world could be sold except in the Republic. I personally know people who do meat processing, work in factories in these plants, say they wouldn't eat it, so they'd rather starve than eat that food that's sold to others. Here we have recently heard about this Polish meat that was imported into the Republic of Croatia, so that meat is literally infected, infected or a lot of tumors and any other diseases, then these sick parts are cut, thrown and the rest of the meat sold, so, as a healthy one. Those who were a little more curious on YouTube could look at the state of these Polish slaughterhouses where we import meat from, so these are literally cows that can't get up, which not only can't get up, but are completely thin and, most importantly, have lost a pigment, so they don't even have a pigment on their skin anymore, but they're pale, white, I don't know what kind of and then they're completely sick cows at the death of slaughter and where they sell that meat? This meat is sold in Croatia, in Croatia, and the Ministry of Agriculture has no idea about it. So when you ask them, they tell me about it we know nothing. They don't even have a record of that meat, let alone to know how to protect their citizens. At the same time, the same ministry, headed by Minister Tolusic, can easily talk, how food is fine and how there are no problems. It is no wonder, then, that all these problems that I've been saying with my health, that life's age is getting smaller and that basically all of us, who are passing these laws and who are eating such food, are going to feel quite deserved. What are the solutions? The solutions are that, firstly, import food is replaced with domestic food, secondly to implement the action plan that the Living Wall otherwise presented in 2015 but unfortunately no one is interested in increasing the area under organic food or organic food. In this way, not only will we protect human health, but most importantly, we will open jobs, increase exports and protect the environment. It would also be very important to introduce a purchase of this food, meaning, domestic, healthy, organic food, and above all, that they are bought in hospitals, kindergartens in schools, in college cafeterias, public cuisine, military and elsewhere where food is bought. It would also be very important for the state to introduce a purchase of organic textiles, meaning buying bio cotton, was a flax of hemp, means everything in essence that our farmers can produce. There are countries in the world, some of them more developed than Croatia, such as Denmark, and some of them are much more underdeveloped than Croatia, such as the Dominican Republic, Cuba or Bhutan, which have a plan to fully interfere with organic agriculture, means not immediately, but completely get to the point that there is no longer any conventional agriculture, which would use herbicides, insects, and especially GMOs, from companies such as Monsanto, Bayer, Sigenta, BSF and others. If the Living Wall is able to run a agricultural policy, we will certainly do these changes and certainly, I guarantee, 100%, that the mortality rates of these most severe diseases, which I mentioned earlier in my debate, will be significantly reduced. Until then, I call on all Croatian citizens not to buy import food, to get good information about what they eat, to visit Croatian villages, to meet farmers, to look at their fields, to look at their stables and all other facilities, and when they are convinced that food is therefore truly domestic, grown with love and as well as possible a better healthy way, to then take this food, continuously and permanently buy. Don't buy in chains, that food we buy is poisonous, that food will do you great damage in the long run, I understand, that many citizens are simply forced to buy that food, but try to protect yourself as much as you can, because simply, your own state does not want to protect you. He doesn't want to. Our own state simply wants to poison you, we had among other things Mr. Bačić's case, whose former company, i.e. the company owned by his wife, was in Rijeka selling children food with worms, with larva, the children had bellies, were sick, these contracts were cancelled, so another food provider is sought, but it best shows you that in the heart of this ruling majority, there are people who, therefore, are in the interest of selling bad food and choking domestic production. Therefore, all these legal changes that we have discussed here today, in fact, will not change anything, for the simple reason, when they are adopted, they remain a dead letter on paper, and the key evidence I have already stated, and since 2005, we have a valid law that GMOs are declared, but until today, that food has not been declared. So if you can't enforce one law for 14 years, and no one takes responsibility for it, so what do we have to talk about further? What kind of morale can we talk about in politics? This way we can talk about the resignations that we can talk about health care and what kind of care we can even talk about the most valuable things we have, which are the human lives of our citizens. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131334	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjc, we are moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131335	Dear fellow MPs, I think organic food is a positive thing, but what's a problem today is actually the growth of the human population, I'm going to give you some statistics, which are interesting, the first time the number of people on earth has crossed a billion. In 1927 there were 2 billion of us, 1960. 3 billion, '74. Four billion, '87. Five billion, '99. 6 billion, 2011. 7 billion and an estimate of 2020 will be 8 billion. So the number of people on earth is growing at a rate of speed, and the amount of land we have available is the same one that was 200 years ago or 6000 years ago, which is going to say that, which is going to say that we're in trouble. And why is that? Because meat production requires much more surfaces than, say, production to say other cereals, or the culture of agriculture. If an individual eats meat in order to feed that individual, you need 10 times as much processing area as you need to feed an individual who does not eat meat and, of course, to produce all the meat we need, we need the land. And to get to that land which we will turn into pastures, or on which we will grow corn or wheat or soy not for men, but for cattle the forest is made. And then you've got a process to say in South America, it's a rain forest. The same thing is happening in Africa, in Africa, the same people to be able to grow forest cramps, but what happens is there's no extreme temperature changing the micro-climate in the soil, there's a drought, and in the end you have the process of turning the country into a desert. And you finally have less food than you had before. Now how does that lead to long paths? Count on yourself, one kilogram of lamb, or to produce a kilo of lamb in this process, 39 kilograms of carbon dioxide is produced to produce a kilogram of 27 kilograms of carbon dioxide, 13 kilograms of carbon dioxide is produced for one kilogram of cheese, now tomatoes, lenses, rice, broccoli, etc., this vegetable or cereal that I mentioned on average for one kilogram in this entire process of producing it is only one to two kilograms of carbon dioxide produced. So the production of these greenhouse gases is incomparably higher in meat production than in the production of plant cultures. And it's not just a problem of carbon dioxide you have methane that creates both cows and sheep, and that methane has a much stronger greenhouse effect than carbon dioxide and what's actually happening to our world is that huge amounts of these greenhouse gases are created and there's a violation of the enormous surfaces of the forest and the creation of enormous amounts of feces and ultimately of enormous antibiotic consumption, because the vast majority of antibiotics are not spent at all on humans but on animals, because when you fill a lot of animals in one place, these are not normal and natural conditions for cattle, or for poultry, which is what you could possibly keep these unfortunate animals alive, you have to spend a lot of antibiotics in this process. And you finally have poisoned, poisoned land of all these, of all that fertilizer or feces, poisoned springs of water, you have scattered forests, you have, you have a lot of negative actually consequences. And not to speak to people's health, so people who eat meat live shorter than those who don't eat meat, especially dried meat that people eat and get colon cancer, cardiovascular diseases etc., etc. Today circulatory diseases are the main cause of death in humans, and not to say that many other diseases are related, such as high pressure kills a mass of people. And what our society needs is not to force people not to eat meat, it's a personal choice of each individual, but what we need is to give people even the awareness that meat diet leads to certain health problems, that meat nutrition affects the climate on earth, that deforestation destroys the lungs of the earth and that, in fact, when you have an exponential growth in the population of people on earth and you have deforestation parallel to that, it reduces the lungs of the earth, decreases and increases the amount of greenhouse gases and reduces their ability to convert into oxygen by chlorophyll or plants. And people by eating meat actually chicken branch sitting on or jeopardizing the ecological system of the planet and leading to the disappearance of many plant and animal species by such treatment. I mean, this information that I just told you is supposed to be in school textbooks, but there are no textbooks. Also, I've noticed that in many systems of state e.g. In hospitals when I was working as a medical technician, I noticed that there was no alternative diet, so if you say I don't eat meat I'd like to eat something without meat, they say you're just not gonna eat chicken just rice, so there's no doing meals for vegetarians or vegans, that's a big problem. I should be able to inform people where to eat meat in health, environmental and any other sense, and on the other hand, you should offer people an alternative that someone who does not want to eat meat in kindergarten or in hospital or at school has such a choice. Today, such a choice, unfortunately, is not in a large, large number of places. And why there isn't, now that's a question, why the education system has failed, why the education system doesn't educate students, why the education system doesn't speak, so let's say that the journal doesn't talk about it, why I have to say these things here in the assembly and that many people first hear it, that's the question that's being asked. I believe that the complete system of state has failed and that is only one of the signs of how much the authorities care about well-being, both people and animals living in terrible conditions. Just try to imagine, each of us needs to move. Here, as you can see, the vast majority of MPs are gone, they're gone today, they're not here at their workplace, they're not sitting in their chairs. I don't know, some people may be bored, some people are walking around, some people have other things to do, but imagine that an animal that's been tied up in a tight cage or in a box, I don't know what to call it, and it can't even be, say, turned around its axis. Imagine such a life from birth to slaughter. And the only time the animals will see the sun will be the day they'll be taken to the slaughterhouse. And in my day, I remember in Osijek there was a story about Archibald, that was a pig they brought to an animal asylum and they gave that son of a bitch to feed him dogs, because they took care of the dogs abandoned. And these instead of turning the pig into meat, they took him as a new friend there and he lived with them. And there was a question of how long pigs lived and no one knew the answer to that question because pigs live to the slaughter, no one lets them die by natural causes. Of course, they found out how much later. The pig got sick and died, but I want to tell you that we're taught to look at animals as objects and things, and that it's about living beings who have feelings, who suffer, and this whole meat industry is actually turning against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131336	I thank my colleague Pernar for this inspiring speech. Replica, dear colleague Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131337	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, my colleague Pernar is a vegan who only ate plants came to a Slavonic peasant and asked her, boss, I would do something, I have nothing to live on. And if he had a peasant fairy, he'd park his trailer on the garbage. And he loads this, loads, after half an hour he falls on his knees in that shit, he can't take it anymore. And the farmer tells him, "Here, son, come here, eat some bacon, so go home, do something else, you're not for nothing." He said fertiliser damage. How do those 8 billion people you're talking about, how did they crack this country? Well, in a way that they ate meat, that they ate quality protein and everything they needed because they didn't know about the other. How is fertiliser used? So just to produce these plants that are now eaten by vegans How would they eat if there wasn't manure? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131338	Thank you, colleague Culey. Answer, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131339	I don't know how much you know the Holy Scriptures and actually the history of the human race, but the first people didn't eat meat. In the garden of Eden, God gave humans plants to eat and only after the flood when vegetation was destroyed on earth, so in Noah’s day God allowed humans to eat meat. However, a man can get protein from other sources, meaning lentils, corn, rice, and there is protein, meaning soybeans have all the proteins as well as meat, so it's not a matter that plant food doesn't have protein, and it's proof that the strongest animals on earth, or living organisms, look at, elephant, plant, look at the bull that has the muscle, feed on the grass, look at the rhino, look at any big animal, all these animals are in order herbivores, in the end and the biggest dinosaurs were your herbivores, so that you need meat to have muscle, It doesn't stand. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131340	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next debate, dear colleague Martha Luc-Polanc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131341	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. We are facing a group of laws in which we are harmonising legislation with the new Law on the State Inspectorate and listening to this debate I must note that I am sorry that we are not, I do not dispute the Assembly's representatives that they have the breadth in their debates, but I think it is a shame that no longer discussed the metrics, which is the very system that we are creating, the new system, it is the State Inspectorate and everything that awaits us, that is how this system should be formed so that it is functional and efficient. We're here more, here in the debates I've heard more debates about healthy food, food control, so there's more to alluding in maybe a bad way of inspection, but I'd turn it differently. In order for us to get one successful and quality inspection, one good field work, we have to have a good system. I know that when we passed the State Inspectorate Act that we've now formed this system and this is now just harmonizing with it, but I don't think it's burning to keep warning about what I think is not good in that system and that all that can be fixed and done. And besides, the changes and additions aren't our sides, because here's what I'm going to look at first, it's the Law on Amendments to the Hunting Act. You see, we passed the law in the 11th month. And that was one whole law where we now regulated hunting after years, which we had, which means, a law with a lot of changes and additions, we now pass one whole law last year, so three months ago, specifically, and we're going to change it today with amendments and additions to bring it into line with the State Inspectorate Act that we passed 15 days later last year. So last year, we had a national reform plan, and that the Ministry of Agriculture had not already, when it passed the Hunting Law. That's proof that this government has a very bad not only that it is unskilled and a qualitatively small number of reforms have been adopted, that it has such capacity, but that this small number of reforms that we have brought, they are therefore in government, not coordinated and harmonised because imagine how much legal uncertainty it is now. So we passed the Hunting Law three months later. We are changing him and supplementing him. Well, that's why I'm going to continue to insist on the irregularities of the State Inspectorate Act, because then we can change it again in a week, no matter what we bring in the 12th month. Because we obviously don't care about this continuity and the immutability of the law and the creation of certain legal certainty. I would specifically refer to the Hunting Act to the basic two points, although it is a small change and a supplement, but in that little amendment and the addition I found two points that I consider critical and so can apply to other laws, I will just now say it here from the field of hunting. In fact, we in the Hunting Act have two kinds of inspections. Two types of inspectors, one is a state inspector and one is a hunting inspector on the ground. When you read the State Inspectorate Act and the Hunting Law, what differs between these two inspectors? There's no difference. Both inspectors in certain types of hunting grounds do the same work. So the State Inspector will also give you a content and formal identical solution as well as an inspector on the ground, but what are they going to differ in? The State Inspector will be sitting in the Central Office of the State Inspectorate and the ordinary hunting inspector will be on the ground, there will be a difference in coefficients, so one will have a higher salary, one smaller, and that they do a completely identical job. I also warned about this problem when we passed a law on the State Inspectorate where I thought it was an article 34, where it was stated that even in the Central Office of the State Inspectorate, it meant that although the State Inspectorate should be formed with the district offices, with outposts, with departments, that we in the Central Office would have inspectors, so I wondered, if we had territorially covered the state with the State Inspectorate and the inspectors on the ground, I had already asked what the inspector would do in the Central Office. We instead of going towards reducing the administration, towards equating the way our state administration works, we double jobs. So we in the Central Office have people who have higher odds of higher work and work is done to them by people on the ground. I think it's a very unfair discrimination, and in some ways a devastation of the reputation of these inspectors on the ground, it's also a certain demotivation. Imagine me as a hunting inspector controlling a common hunting ground and from Zagreb will come a state inspector who will control a national hunting ground and we will do the same job for a different salary. Here's what I've already pointed out in the State Inspectorate as a problem, and it's already seen, so that discrimination, different coefficients for the same jobs. And I think it's something that needs to be fixed anyway. And then what comes out of it? You still have a provision, a state inspector, when he makes a decision in the Central Office, his solution is immediately followed by an administrative dispute, so it's an administrative act and an inspector on the ground when he makes such a solution, his decision goes to the State Inspectorate. Why are we making inequality in the same solutions? Why am I even introducing a two-stage decision at the State Inspectorate if we have administrative courts as administrative courts already in two stages, so we have administrative courts and more administrative courts, which is why we are now in the inspectorate creating this two-stage? So, the same body will issue me a solution and the same body will decide by my appeal but only if it's a hunting inspector and not a state inspector. So these are the illogicalities that will arise from law to law precisely because that fundamental law is not done properly. And at the end of the day to draw attention, the State Inspectorate needs to start with 1. 4. with its work and on the ground the situation is completely unaccepted. If we're setting up district offices, we still don't know who's going to be in charge of these district offices, or I have to admit, I haven't found a rule on whether or not these area offices, outposts, sections and all that's in a month. So what are you doing? The competent departments will just banish their inspectors and the State Inspectorate is not practically formed yet and I ask you a question where these people will sit, what they will do and we can't blame them for not doing good control, whether they are not on the ground at all, whether they have conditions, whether they are technically equipped, whether their cars are secured, here I think that one single reform, means from 2018 the Government was completely unacceptable and I think there will be chaos behind 1. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131342	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Martha Luc-Polanc. The next debate is dear colleague Zdravko Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131343	Well, here's what I'm going to do more based on inspectors, this time forest but for introduction. So for the introduction, I would say that the Ministry of Agriculture was and remained a bed of pride, illegality, corruption and crime in which even the relevant institutions did not go in much though they should have. An eclectic example is that of HDZ's parliamentary representative, who, with his family and his d.o.o. for years, had been peeling and peeling Croatian forests and when all these companies had gone bankrupt, he owed them 20 million kuna, and that is what, only what is evident and what you have in your records. It's the same one that's now scrambling on the white onion spurs up to a heifer with 7.5 million kunas that you know about as well. Now we get to this law that's now on the agenda, I said I'd be based on this forest reproductive material or more specifically on these forest inspectors. So we come to that part of the interesting part, to control the application of laws and forest inspectors, so two moments and it all comes down to the same whether it's about cutting down wood mass or that it's about reproductive material. It's no use to those inspectors. They're watching something. For example, in the last 3 years since Mr Tolusic came to the head of the ministry, they have not made a single record and have not filed a single application for a million-and-a-half cubic illegally past the rules of the visited wood mass in almost a hundred, we are somewhere in the economic units of Grubiša field, Udbin, Ogulin, Perusic, Donji Lapca, Otoc, and that I still do not list it where there is no idea how much to cut or how much to cut and how much to plant because there is no basis. And economic and forestry inspectors may not see or see it, let alone file an application for breach of Article 81. The law because it does not control the forest as prescribed by law and because of the absence of valid forest-economic grounds. And these forest economic bases actually determine the 10th annual scope and type of work, and without it, they can neither be cut nor planted. But we can't let that happen. Do you know how many forest inspectors there are? 60. And another 50 of them sits in the management of Croatian forests, I speak 50 forestry engineers, 22 of them are bosses, you do nothing, and those 28 could at least control the existence of valid forest economic bases in these three years, but crying, there's nothing. And do you know what the sanctions are? From 50 to 100 grand for each or every individual offence for a legal person and 10 to 15 grand for a responsible person. And we don't have any applications, we don't have anything. Why? That's what to think about. And I won't be long, I'll figure it out. And I'm going to figure this out, we grind, we beat, but nobody does. This is all we're bringing here that no one's spending there. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131344	I'd like to thank my colleague Ronka. We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131345	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Ronko, you have brought quite a lot of serious accusations here on how forest inspections and generally foresters and Croatian forests and I who come from this profession do not have such knowledge and figures as you do. The forest must not be managed, you are right if it has not been brought to it, that is to say, cut off any work by others if no forest economic basis is adopted which is valid for 10 years and is projected for another 10 years in advance. If you have this knowledge that there are forest lords somewhere, you mentioned a million and a half cubics in the area, as far as I understand all of Croatia, you would have to report it as a responsible person, citizen and this to see whether it is true or whether what you said is just a flat-rate assessment that has nothing to do with the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131346	I thank my colleague, Felak. My colleague Ronko's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131347	Thank you very much. Well, while you're at it, check it out, and besides, we've got 60 of these forest inspectors, so it's not worth anything. And in addition to telling you about these applications and the knowledge that I have and I have a lot from the Croatian Forests, I have talked about it many times, I have talked to facts, truths and evidence that are also in PNUSKOK, etc., so no one is alive. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131348	I thank my colleague Ronko for his reply. Next debate, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So I came forward for this debate because I want to point out one problem and since one of the subjects of the debate today is also the proposal to amend and supplement the Animal Protection Act, what I want to point out is the use of pyrotechnic means throughout the year, which is why animals and people suffer, so also children. And that's what I want to point out in this debate. So we rarely witness every year when we enter a new year that in society, or in Croatia, there is an atmosphere of war, to hear explosions, detonations and shootings, and after that day, two or three have scenes that we watch in the media and on television where it is located, where there is amputation of hands, where children remain badly injured where people, people, and animals suffer. So the number of cases where in such an atmosphere, in such situations there is also a heart attack, especially dogs, where animals are frightened, experience shocks in those days, and therefore I advocate the constant or permanent use of pyrotechnic means by category F2 and F3. So, the firecrackers of the most noisy throughout the year, not just those three days. This is why, because I believe that neither in the spirit of Christianity in which we belong such an atmosphere of shooting and such a form of glory is similar to our people and that people, above all safety and animals, but also children in that period deserve one peace and security first of all. I would like to draw attention to that change in this direction that the pyrotechnics of category F2 and F3 bans throughout the year have already given the Ministry of Science and Education as well as the Ministry of Tourism, and although this is not about this law, the prohibition should be implemented through amendments to the law on use, the Law on explosive substances and pyrotechnic agents, but here I am also appealing to you representatives of your ministries to give the same support for these amendments, since it is, in part, your portfolio. Here I have mostly used this debate because I want to point out and draw attention to both this problem and the unloved scenes that occur during each year of entry, entering a new year so from 27.12. to 1 January and in many situations and cases where then the celebration turns into some pretty things or sad things and I don't say those memories of permanent life when children or people are left without fists, which means these are the consequences that are caused by the explosion of bombs or some kind of war events, and I think it's finally time that we call in the 21st century the celebration and that, but first of all, we need to put children and people's safety in focus, but also animals as living being equal, equal and people. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131350	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. Next debate, dear colleague Vlaho Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131351	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture, means the law entered the 5.4., I will talk about the OPG and the unification of the inspectorate in this law, which was passed by haste procedure when it was adopted or more precisely in 5.4.2018 and is now going to amend and supplement that same law is whether these inspection tasks are being united or withdrawn from the ministry. 5 months after the adoption of the OPG law, there is a law on the inspectorate whether, be careful which was already in the plan for adoption whose content was known by the Inspectorate Act and was known about the moment when it would be united with this law, which was adopted by haste procedure without any basis. So you don't respect your own plan to work on legal regulations. So, after almost a year, we've been passing changes and additions to the laws that we've passed whether, by haste procedure, it's without any basis. I simply can't understand why no one in this country is ruling, I speak from the ruling because I've been focusing on it for more than half a year. For that there is an assessment, something called an impact assessment, whether and what would be good to start using this one because in this way of passing, this vain law-making I will call it, the people of my cost, cost this people. You have no right to behave like that. You have to enforce the law, says the Impact Assessment Act, brought it to this high house, so let's more adhere to what we've brought ourselves. So, now I'm talking specifically about this OPG Act, the law says that within six months, the rules will be passed, so the law has been passed in an extraordinary procedure without any basis, one year does not apply, and that law says that the rules are going to be passed, and here they are not passed, incredibly. After a year, I repeat for the hundredth time, the law passed haste, worse, the state burning, you pass a law that prescribes that rules will be passed and these rules are not passed, we are amazing. You've cut your e-consultation down from 30 days, you don't allow any further opposition to discuss the laws that are being passed. The persistent mechanisms of parliamentaryism, democracy narrow down, destroying people are not allowed to discuss the law at all. I'm not getting into the measure of the law at all. I repeat, the law passed by emergency procedure has no basis, is the gorilla state, is there anything at risk? I'm going to repeat for the hundredth time very important, we're going to make changes and amendments to the law after a year that doesn't apply for a year, that's amazing. There's a show on HTV that goes, I don't know if it's HTV or New One that's crazy, confused, normal. Please, come on, please, let's start obeying the laws we're making. So this OPG law had an impact assessment and it's fine now if I don't get to the colleagues here the simple procedure is prescribed and it would have been very easy if you had entered the impact assessment at all, it would have been very easy to get to the next one. That the Agency has no administrative or enforcement capacity to fulfil the obligations it imposes itself by law. This would easily come to the conclusion, issuing a solution for any change on the OPG, etc. It would have been very easy to come to an impact assessment, it would have been very easy to conclude that only law enforcement would cost each individual man who opened the OPG, who deals with the agricultural within a form called OPG. Because it prescribes a series, a whole series of commitments, means highlighting records with a name, individual departures to the agency for each change as well as new administrative costs. So I'm saying, this OPG Act has just put a lot of pressure on people who do something called agriculture in this way. The Law also on the OPG, which was adopted by haste procedure. I repeat for the 100th time. By no means changes the conditions of the OPG’s business, except by imposing new obligations and good, well defines how that farmer will be punished if he accidentally hides a potato there. Unbelievable. Are we working for these people or are they working for us? Also, this law does not separate small farmers from large ones in anything, which is very important, that now again, I do not repeat myself and prepare. Instead of us being in the position of them, we just hit them with that claw and hit them. It's a conclusion. The law doesn't really apply. That's very clear to you. And it's already been a year since the adoption, and I wonder how you're going to, look, how are you going to make an ex post impact assessment for another year that you've committed yourself to doing? How you're going to make an ex post impact assessment for something that isn't used, and what you've done according to the emergency procedure a year ago. Crazy, confused, normal. Please. I have no intention of being mean and I don't know what. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we're starting to act normal in accordance with what we're bringing. We can't let people do that anymore, you have no right to violate what this high house has brought. You have no right to do that. It doesn't matter that you have the number of hands. Hands aren't an alibi for that. I would recommend that you deal with solving the ARCOD system where only based on two witnesses, it's still the one from, no, it's not burdening your government, but from that system the way people in the ARCOD system are recorded will result in a whole series of problems. What I particularly wish to emphasize in the end, if someone is in the ARCOD system, please keep me well now, and if this something that records in the ARCOD system is based on two witnesses, is that evidence of possession by the Law of Property and Property, what is the name of the law? If so, can you assume how many problems will arise from this fact that someone who entered the ARCOD system based on it argues ownership over that country, say, and whether this is the basis for the systematic authority of the owners over that country. Why it avoids the conclusion of concrete contracts, concrete legal relations with the users of the country that work there, or do not. And I'll end up with the fact that you all know or why we keep it quiet, so my people, our farmers, are watering our grains. Do you know? Because they're paid to spend the harvest, but they're worth getting a boost. It's not their fault. It's your fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131352	I thank my colleague Orepic. Replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131353	Excuse me. Thank you very much, colleague Orepic. You have now mentioned the Law on OPGs and sublaws which have not been passed. Unfortunately, it's not the only example. Here, I will say here and an example of the law that went in the regular procedure, which is the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, in which it is said that a strategy will then be adopted for the development of these areas, which will then set out the measures that the inhabitants of that area will enjoy as a blessing because these measures are not listed in the laws. We're in the middle of the 3rd month today. This strategy has not been adopted, this sublegal act has not been adopted. We have entered a new budget year, which means that by the end of this year these people will not enjoy these benefits at all, and we have a law that came into force this year, and that sublegal acts will be passed over the year and will not be valid until next year, and this is another example where the laws adopted by this house are violated. Because the departments, in there, write deadlines where they have to bring in sublaws, and they don't. And it unfortunately became a feature of this government both in the emergency and in the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131354	Dear colleague, you're right, I'll just give meaning to what you said. So the OPG Act clearly defines what's going to happen there to a man who deals with agriculture and hides a bag of potatoes. And we don't define anything and no one is responsible for what the OPG Act is, do they, don't they? And that's where it says clearly that the rules will be passed, that this, that that, and not to say the Impact Assessment Act, which is being played and which violates democratic freedom in this House, Parliamentism, will be able to discuss everything we bring. This famous early law-making institute is getting worse. So in 2012 the Constitutional Court, however it was, did in these very words, have warned of this phenomenon of the hasty adoption of the law, that it was a threat to parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131355	Representative Vlaovic, reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131356	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you have well warned that the OPG Act has been adopted in an emergency procedure, that large bells have been announced that it is a rescue law for the development of agriculture, for the development of the OPGs, and it is now not being implemented because of the non-registration of the rules, but it is not the only example of such behaviour of this government and this ministry. I would like to mention that we also adopted a new Law on the Agricultural Forest Advisory Service in the rush procedure, and then after six months, the Government regulations abolish this service, the agricultural advisory service. Then he would mention the Agricultural Chamber Act, it was also brought as a tool to help our agricultural producers, and yet it is not maintained by the Agriculture Chamber Assembly, you know why? So precisely because the basis of the OPG Act does not know who will be mandatory users or members of the chamber and because the paying agency does not give the data to the chamber, the assembly is not called up and it has been ordered to do so within 6 months. Invoking the Assembly of the Agricultural Chamber And what is particularly bad, [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] that the Agricultural Land Act is not implemented in the same way as the rules are not adopted in time. [[Attack Petrov: Time's up, MP.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131357	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131358	Dear colleague, you're right, I also want to give meaning to what you've pointed out, in the following way that all of this I've said has only one goal and that's to start respecting each other and that we simply have to bring this kind of line under which no one has the right to go. No one in this country has the right to violate or disobey the laws of the Republic of Croatia that this House has adopted. That's amazing. We ourselves make vain laws, disobey them, and bring them against the law. We're making laws against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131359	Representative Prelec has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131360	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Orepić, I absolutely agree when you say that we are passing a series of laws by emergency procedure, here and today we have everything by emergency procedure and hasten procedure although this absolutely makes sense, but the fact that really some laws that are passed in this House are not in step with everything our citizens deserve. First of all, you have cited some examples of the Law on the OPG, I would say the laws on incentives and all that together, there's a good sentence and it says if you want us to respect the law, then you're making laws that are worthy of respect. Unfortunately, here in this House we often pass real laws that are not worthy of respect, that's the biggest problem. There are times when we happen to talk about problems, legal problems, and concrete facts, we don't respect the terrain and we don't help these farmers simply survive in this harsh market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131361	Thank you. Replica response, Representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131362	A respected colleague, exactly, there's something called a public good and it's something that must be in the protection of everyone sitting here, sitting there across the street and every man in this country. And here our public good that we create should be those laws that will function as people and people and these farmers and I don't know what or who, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131363	Now we're gonna stop at this point for taking a stand on behalf of the MPs' club, and then we're gonna move on with this point later. We now proceed with the agenda, for the closing statement on behalf of the Representatives' Club at the previous debate point, the Living Wall appeared, on their behalf will be spoken by MP Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131365	Dear MPs, during the debate on animal protection, Agent Culey said that if we wanted to be strong, we should eat meat. But that thesis doesn't stand, and it doesn't stand for many reasons, one I explained in the replica itself, I said that the largest land animals don't eat meat, so, bull, elephant, rhinoceros, say giraffe, etc., etc. Now, the question arises, let's say the strength counts in horses, how much horsepower there is, doesn't count the strength in, I don't know, tigers, lions or anyone else or I don't know, dogs or other carnivores, but it's this raw force or animals that are used for hard physical labor that are not animals that eat meat, but animals that feed on plants. I'm going to give an example that I'm personally interested in, and I believe it's going to be for you, too, and it's related to the peas, so 100 grams. The pea has 22 grams in it. Protein, while 100 grams, let's say beef has the same amount of protein, so you eat beans or eat beef, you get equal protein. But what happens to food? People eat meat, what do they eat? They eat everything that this animal had previously only processed through their digestive system and in this process of processing and the plant food that the cattle had eaten up to that steak that we're going to eat, all the fibers disappear, a large amount of vitamins disappear, there is a phenomenon of these saturated fats that are not healthy, etc. etc. I'll give you an example of calcium, 100 grams. Beef has 1.9 mg i.e. 16 mg calcium and 100 g. Beans have 123 mg calcium, so much more. As far as iron is concerned, 100 grams. Beef has 1.9 grams, 100 grams. The beans have 5 mg, I'm sorry, this is 1.9 mg for beef. So, as far as magnesium is concerned, it's 100 grams. Beef has 23 mg in 100 g. Beans have 171 mg and cholesterol per 100 g. Beef is 74 mg and 100 mg. Beans only. 0 cholesterol, it's gone. And also, water consumption, how much water it takes to make 100 grams. Beef? For 100 grams. Beef needs 1480 liters, so 100 grams. 1480 liters of water, 100 grams. Beans only 103 liters of water. I'll give you another example of 100 calories of steak you have 5.4 grams. protein, and 100 calories broccoli 11.2 g. protein, too. And mostly these vegetable proteins don't have cholesterol, they're rich in fibers, they have a little fat, they're rich in phytochemicals, they have various minerals. And here, I'm going to give you another example, remember when I was talking about strength, I said it's being calculated in horsepower, I explained that all the animals used to work hard, so that helps people, are actually herbivores, and here's the example of Popeye, you all know about Popeye, Popeye is strong because he ate spinach, Popeye didn't eat meat. I'll give you an example that 150 calories of spinach, you get, you get 100% of your iron needs, you get the same iron needs, you get from beef, you need as much as 1800 calories, you need more than 10 times the meat you need to eat to meet the same iron needs, and I'm not saying that you have 19.5 grams of spinach on 150 grams of protein, and at 150 calories of meat only 14.5% of the gram of protein.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131366	Thank you. The final word came from the club of Independent Lists, representative Miro Bulj will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131367	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries with their associates. Here today we had two laws that concerned a lot of agriculture and agriculture problems, and the Law that preceded this, and these now-unified amendments to the Law that are in line with our State Inspectorate, which brought this Parliament, and then I said that is Lex Mikulić, and then I said, and now I will repeat it. Here's the first law we're discussing right now, meaning the Law on the Storage, Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, to remember when the State Inspectorate was then disappeared from the silo in Đakoviština grain, and the same shape that you're changing is gone. We all remember that well, I don't know if anyone was answering, mostly mentioning dozens of millions of stolen grains that couldn't possibly have been mouse belts, even those, or someone, but that's huge silos, talking about tens of thousands of pieces, uh, tens of thousands of trucks that it was supposed to be stolen. No one answered. And now you're going back to the same. And I'm sorry that he's not a minister here, we have two laws, I'm sorry he's not a minister today, that he explains how he's going to work with the State Inspectorate, here's only this problem, and when we move forward when we see what laws we've been through through these ten changes we've been going through, it means that we will coordinate the Inspectorate with the State Inspectorate to satisfy Andrija Mikulić, we are returning everything back to the way it was today. Isn't that right, secretary? We're going back. It used to be the State Inspectorate, and now to satisfy HDZ and to reconcile internal currents, we're going back to the old ones, when the silo grain went missing. And of course the triba is a minister and a statement that will be a date. So here we go, let's say, we have this food control, what kind of tea are you going to have, which you're going to have, what kind of coordination are you going to have, communication with this new State Inspectorate? Will the Ministry of Agriculture? So you gave up everything to satisfy a certain person in order to have this function of Pharaoh, basically an inspector who would control everything, who would work as he did when it was a mining issue, then he was quite active, these people were about inspectorates, and what's the interest, in the essence of this unification? I said this and when it was the law, but what I'm talking about right now is ten important laws, that is, ten important associations under one hat of the State Inspectorate, where the Agency sees itself here animal protection, protection, and it all goes under the State Inspectorate. Can one of you explain it to me, and what is not the minister to explain it, but if they had to satisfy the human race and this State Inspectorate's place to provide Mr. Mikulic, you gave the coordination of the bar somehow, because there are now certain structures that the Ministry of Agriculture will control as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned on any matter. Animal protection, food control, animal import, will you have any contact through and how it will all work, or will be through grandmothers, grandmothers and uncles as I said this morning, in essence, all against the interests of Croatian peasants, Croatian villages, where only a Croatian peasant is controlled and imposed on him by numerous norms, while import lobbys importing to tonnes of harmful food, from cows burning down on slaughterhouses, these imports, and our farmer has no more domestic cheese, no more grandmothers that can sell their domestic product, but you constantly benefit from import lobbys only for years. Today we no longer have a Croatian village, and since we don't have a Croatian village in 2/3 of Croatia, we don't have cattle, we have no domestic animals, we have a big problem in the country, all the incentives and all the money goes to criminals, because if it had gone to the right hands of the peasants, we would have developed peasants and the village today. Because where I was born and die alive, we all had two or three cows, we lived, parents worked on nobody's mysts, we had cattle, we sold it, there's nothing today because you had no norms to destroy domestic production, and to take advantage of foreign lobbys to meet these amendments of the Law criteria to guess, the staff of these puzzles to fill their dissatisfactions, so that Andrej Plenkovic would maintain the government and could continue to destroy the Croatian village. 2/3 of Croatian villages have been destroyed. We're out of milk production, we're out of pork, we've got nothing because of these changes that weren't necessary at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131368	Thank you. The closing statement wishes to be held by State Secretary Tugomir Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131369	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Here, I thank you for the comprehensive debate on these 12 United Amendments and the addition of the Law for the purpose, meaning, the definition of the Final Act on Inspectorate and compliance with it. Here a certain set of questions has been asked, so I will answer some questions, and unfortunately there are no MPs who have asked or made some findings that do not stand. I will start with the Law on the OPG, which was not by emergency procedure, means, in 2018, adopted in the Croatian Assembly but in the framework of two readings of the first and second readings, the Law on Impact Assessment was adopted later, before it was already adopted, and before that, the adoption of the OPG Act was announced and the subsequent impact assessment of the regulations was defined and will be carried out within the same. It is also implemented, the OPG Act is implemented, of course the testimony of dozens of OPGs which are already in accordance with this new law exempt from enforcement and have found a foothold in the provisions of the law. Also, a preliminary list has been left for Croatia's agricultural chamber on which to define the membership of the future HPC. 1.1 The Law on Agriculture was adopted before that and there could be no laws on the register of the CAP and these days the same will be adopted, these are some answers to questions, or findings to clarify them on this occasion. Also, here is the question of an esteemed representative, Mr Bulja, regarding the very relationship between the Ministry of Agriculture and the future inspectorate, I have already pointed out in the opening statement that as regards the Consumer Information Act on Food, the competent authority for the implementation of the law remains the Ministry of Agriculture, and official controls on law enforcement will be carried out by agricultural, sanitary, veterinary inspectors of the State Inspectorate, or the fishing inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture. Regulations relating to the jurisdiction of the exercise of official controls resulting from the Law on Official Controls and which are implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare shall also be governed. Since the activities of official controls and veterinary and sanitary inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the Ministry of Health, have been taken over by the State Inspectorate since 1 April 2019. So far, official controls carried out by fishing inspections remain under the law at the Ministry of Agriculture, and the multiannual plan of official controls is being developed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Apropo's future coordination means the Ministry of Agriculture, or other ministries with the State Inspectorate. Also, as regards the amendment of the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, with the final proposal for a law, the case you mentioned 10 years ago, is not related to this law but to the Law on Mandatory Relations, at that time to the service storage was accepted by agricultural holdings, meaning a certain amount of grain, it was sued and acted on the orders of the institution responsible for the case. Here, once again, I thank everyone for the exhaustive debate and thank you for your attention one more time. Oh, yeah, he reminded me of Mr. Bucarica. As far as the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act is concerned, we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131370	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I'm sorry, there were two replicas, yes. Mr. Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131371	Thank you very much. Mr. Majdak. Here, I'd like to remind you one more time, when we're talking about animal protection, so, for my discussion. I wonder if you can tell me from the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, whether you support the ban on pyrotechnic means of category F2 and F3 firecrackers throughout the year for the purpose of animal protection. So, I know that this is not a law regarding your ministry directly, because it is about the Law on the Prohibition of pyrotechnics, but since these initiatives have been banned in order to protect animals, but also from people and children, have already given support to the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as to the Ministry of Tourism, I think that, on this issue, the Ministry of Agriculture certainly has an important influence and can give a strong contribution, so I'm interested in the position of the ministry, whether you can tell me whether you support this initiative in order to protect animals, and if not, from the position of the Ministry, which is your personal opinion as Secretary of State, do you think that it should be prohibited to use pyrotechic resources throughout the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131372	Answer, Secretary of State Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131373	I thank the esteemed representative, Djujic, for the replica. So, yes, the Ministry of Agriculture has already installed in the Animal Protection Act this relationship with pyrotechnics towards animals, and as far as humans are concerned, it's the jurisdiction of the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131374	The replica was reported by Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131375	Dear Secretary. You're the only thing you do in the ministry, you're doing laws on how to humanize, how inspections impose you, for example. That the grandmother downstairs who baked 10 liters of brandy, you take away the brandy, when she sells the onions or the chapel they produce, the potatoes that produce, it's not that interest with destroying domestic production just inspection. And you have now essentially returned to one inspectorate who will control it all, of course, in order to humanly meet the wishes and needs of your party president. We need to protect the domestic manufacturer to buy and invite domestic products, not to please import lobbys, harmful food we import, food we don't control, it's kebab, we have problems, so look what they sell us. Well, nobody knows what they're selling alive. Well, the increase in tumor count is because of that. And we don't have any domestic animals anymore. You've only made burdens for the OPGs and the sale of the country in 2020 to foreigners. It's your only interest and personnel fulfillment of your party president's crusade.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131376	Thank you. This concludes the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item will be on schedule in 3 hours. In an hour, we'll take a break. It's a 13,50 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u131377	Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 583, Proposer of the Government, the debate concluded, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous 81 for, passed the Law amending the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132060	The next item on the agenda is: - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Political Dialogue Agreement and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, reading, P.Z. No. 581 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, the laws confirming international contracts under the Republic of Croatia are laid down as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? - Mrs. Crescent. Andreja Metelko Zgombic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and distinguished MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Political Dialogue Agreement and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, on the other hand, and let me present to you this proposal and highlight the main reasons that we have been guided in its proposal. The EU has concluded this agreement on 12 December 2016 and this agreement is an expression of one political wish by the EU and its Member States and the Republic of Cuba for progress in relations as well as for strengthening, deepening and setting up a certain institutional framework for our mutual relations. A large number of EU member states have already ratified, adopted this agreement and the European Parliament has also given its consent. The agreement is the first bilateral agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, with a stable framework for the relationship between the EU and the Member States and the Republic of Cuba, and creates a specific platform for closer cooperation and dialogue in a number of political and economic issues. In fact, this agreement will now replace that ad hoc dialogue which did not have some predetermined agreed political and legal framework and will focus our cooperation in the framework of the agreed agreement so far. In addition to strengthening political dialogue, the agreement aims to deepen bilateral cooperation, develop joint action in multilateral forums, and the agreement in fact focuses on supporting transition processes and modernising the Cuban economy and society through dialogue and cooperation with a view to achieving the goals of sustainable development, democracy, human rights and finding a solution to common global challenges. The agreement is based on three pillars, political dialogue, cooperation and dialogue in sectoral policy and trade and trade cooperation. In the specific part of the institutional and final provisions, the agreement itself lays down the establishment of the Joint Council and the Joint Committee, it also contains provisions on the obligation to comply with obligations as well as the measures and procedures to be taken if one of the parties to that Agreement would violate it. The standard elements agreement, those which are otherwise key to the EU and its Member States, thus containing a clause on human rights, a non-proliferation clause and whose breach may even cause a suspension of the agreement itself. There is no need for an agreement to provide for specific financial resources in the Croatian state budget. The Agreement will enter into force when it is ratified by all Member States and by the European Parliament as well as by the Republic of Cuba itself and at the moment its provisions concerning EU direct competence are already in force so that they are already in temporary application. Dear MPs and MPs, the proposal for this agreement has also passed a debate in the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Legislatives and they have also supported it, and therefore I call on you all to give support, to vote on this proposal for the Law on Confirmation, because this will create formal legal assumptions for the entry into force of this Agreement because your consent or formal consent of the Republic of Croatia is also required for its entry into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132062	Mr. Stier called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, here is a long negotiation of this agreement and one of the key problems was that the Cuban side did not want to accept this particular chapter on democracy and on human rights. When the Cuban side agreed to it, then here are the assumptions for signing this. Unfortunately, Cuba is still a dictatorship, still far from democracy, but it is good to support a path that could lead to this and in this context I think it is good to sign the agreement and to have the Croatian Parliament and ratify it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132064	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132065	I thank you, in fact, for this comment. Yes, the EU and the Member States were really important to ensure this strong element of the need to protect human rights, so the Agreement itself contains provisions that they say, with the obligation to respect human rights, both development and civil society as one important component of the democratisation of society, and we really believe that such an agreement will encourage such democratic processes in the Republic of Cuba.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132066	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate, MP Miro Kovac will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132067	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not speak for long on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, there is no need for this, this Agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and its member states on the one hand and the Republic of Cuba, on the other hand, is a good example of how Croatia within the European Union can act on its own benefit, but also on the benefit of the European Union itself. We have already heard that, in addition to political dialogue, the issue of human rights is covered, it is very important when we talk about Croatia, but also about the European Union, to insist on values, on a value system. There are still many problems in Cuba on this plan, and what is important is that Cuba has agreed and that part is included in the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Cuba itself. Of course, the issue of economic cooperation is also covered, because the Republic of Croatia has of course interest on this plan, I looked at the figures for 2017, we had economic cooperation from around 190 million kuna, meaning exchanges between Croatia and Cuba, here somewhere around EUR 25.5 million, we are in deficit, it was concrete, exports amounted to 18.9 million kuna, and imports of 172 million kuna. Following everything said, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports ratification, confirmation of the Political Dialogue Agreement and cooperation between the European Union and Cuba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132068	The Live Wall Representatives Club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132069	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Today we are talking about one of the most important international, international problems, and these are relations with the state of Cuba, and it is a pity that we haven't talked about it before, here we see even that even after the contract was signed in 2016, three years should have come for ratification in the Croatian Parliament at all. The problems with Cuba began a long time ago, back in the 19th century, when the United States declared the so-called Monroe doctrine that allows the United States to, literally, quote, "behaving as an international police force, according to those countries that behave uncivilised", whatever it means, and in translation, it led the United States, the countries of Central and South America to consider as their own area of interest, as their source of raw materials in which no one should have any influence except that of the United States. And then such a policy led to the creation of a number of dictatorships, or if you want a second name banana republic, in which the most important thing is that a government that blindly and unconditionally supports the United States is installed. This policy, among other things, was implemented in the principle of my enemy's enemy, is my friend, and therefore the United States had no problem putting in place even fascist dictators in certain Latin American states, only if they were, therefore, obedient. As for Cuba, it came under an even stronger blow at the beginning of the 20th century, because the United States declared the so-called Amendment Platt, which literally made Cuba a protectorate of the United States, where Americans took full control, not only of the foreign but of the domestic policies of Cuba, and even on several occasions Cuba was literally occupied by the US military. Such behaviour prompted a strong resistance from Cubans, which resulted in a famous 1957 Revolution against the dictator Fulgencio Batista, and the Revolution was not communist in its beginning, but eventually became communist. Namely, when Fidel Castro won power in Cuba in 1959, the U.S. organized several interventions against Cuba, the most famous military intervention in the Bay of Pigs where the aggressors were defeated, and then Fidel Castro wanted-didn't want to have to commit suicide to the Soviet Union, so ask for their protection. This conflict almost led to World War III, eventually caused the murder of President Kennedy, the fall of Khrushchev but what is most important of all Fidel Castro remained in power until his death and Cuba is still today a socialist or communist country that is dear to whom he is pleased. Cuba is in any case the most difficult foreign policy defeat of the United States in the 20th century, and they have made absolutely every effort to bring down power in Cuba, they have spent billions of dollars, so they have introduced this trade embargo that is in effect until today, killing Cuban politicians wherever they can. Among other things, the most famous murder of Fidel's right-hand man Che Guevara in Bolivia in 1967, without a court of law, which is very important to point out, without a court, now we're talking about some human rights and Che Guevara was killed when he was wounded, not armed, bound and without a court, of course by the order of the President of the then United States. This murder, among other things, caused those famous events in 1968 and somehow returned to the United States as a boomerang. No matter what, the Cuban revolution was not broken, but it became more and more respected amongst many citizens of the world and most importantly where people would least hope for, for example. Cuba was also visited by Pope John Paul II, Pope Benedict, former American President Jimmy Carter, the famous French philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre. And it is interesting to note that even Francisco Franco, whom the Cubans day and night attacked and literally hated, never wanted to break diplomatic relations with Cuba for a simple reason because all these people appreciated heroism, heroism of Cuba and somehow respected them. When we talk down there about this problem of human rights, it's very hypocritical, in fact, to speak very hypocritically for the reasons that the United States itself is in serious violation of human rights, and it's often worse than Cuba, actually far worse. Here's what we have, for example. that the rightful assassin of Cuban civilians Luis Posada Carrils, who was imprisoned in Panama, had to be freed from the pressure of the United States, transferred to the U.S. and live there today freely. The same U.S. who accused me of not knowing Cuba for terrorism was, for example, arming Isil, arming Al-Qaeda, we know about an Iran affair where the US government directly financed Iran and allegedly said it was fighting Iran. It's very interesting to say that we have reports from different international associations on the terrible state of human rights in Colombia. For example. Only in the period... The Colombian government has liquidated 3,000 opposition members, many of whom among other leaders and political parties and trade unions and human rights fighters, but that never prevented the United States from condemning the regime in Colombia, but more than persistently giving loans to the regime in Colombia and all international support and only because they were obedient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, when we talk about these human rights, President George Bush just decorated Felix Gonzales, the 2008 Che Guevara killer I remind him of, was killed without a court of law. Also in the United States, it is not possible to publish any positive news about the situation in Cuba, and it could be, for example, the prominent HBO television house banned Oliver Stone's documentary about Fidel Castro. The same U.S. that now pursues the issue of human rights in Cuba is, right in Cuba, meaning in the territory that the United States occupied formed the prison of Guantanamo, which is the worst prison in the world, where human rights are severely violated, and then they are setting up Cuba a condition that it must respect human rights even though it is both the Red Cross and the numerous people's associations and, most importantly, the prison guards themselves have confirmed that prison in Guantanamo is nothing more than the torture zone of the worst species where prisoners are held in solitarys, exposed to extreme heat and colds, that it is beating them up, that they are plagued by noise, sexual humiliation, deny sleep, and most importantly in that prison they are not terrorists at all, but they are American citizens solely because they are Muslims. So their faith was enough to end up in such a torture site. Most importantly, the trade embargo imposed by the United States on Cuba for 57 years has already been condemned by the United Nations General Assembly several times and 27 times. So the trade embargo of Cuba has been abolished 27 times to this moment, but since the United States has the right to veto the Security Council, they continue not to allow the Cuban people to live normally and freely, it means the opposite of the will of 189 UN members. No matter what, and it is very difficult to live 55 years under a trade embargo, Cubans have achieved very great success in the development of their society in relation especially to what was during the Fulgencia Beta and American occupation. And they have achieved not only great steps but in many things they have reached not only Croatia but even the United States, for example. in Cuba we have education until the degree of doctoral science, schools are free of charge in Croatia, in Cuba today we have 0.2% of the illiterate population in Croatia, in Cuba 98% of children go to kindergarten in Croatia less than 50%, in Cuban primary schools classes with a maximum of 20 students, in secondary schools with 15 students, 1 hour lasts 30 minutes, not 45 minutes, every child with disabilities has his own personal assistant, teaching is one shift without numerical grades, harder classes are always at the beginning of classes, easier classes always at the end teaching with children being able to attend creative courses such as gardening, handwork and many others. Croatia singles out 3% of the budget for education, Cuba sets out 13% of the budget and is the world's leading country for education. In doing so, it has even exceeded the Scandinavian countries, which are our role models. Two years ago, UNICEF, so the International Children's Organisation declared Cuba a child's place, so Cuba is officially a paradise for children. Whether it's a paradise for children in Croatia or in the United States would be discussed. Of course, because of the trade embargo today in Cuba, the average salary is about $50, but on the other hand, the directors are less than $10, which means that Cubans actually pay 1/5 of their salaries for directors, and in Croatia we know that the situation is not so bright that we have to spend 30, 40 and 50%, unless we are Mr. Assembly MPs then 5 or 10%. Cuba has a perfect health system, at least according to World Health Organization estimates, Cubans live longer than Croats, baby mortality is twice as low as in Croatia, lower than in the United States, so more babies die in the United States than in Cuba, although the United States singles out for each citizen $7,500 for health care, and Cuba only 200 dollars. Cuba has so many doctors that it can export them, today Cuba exports 50,000 doctors who work in 67 countries of the world, and they have the largest number of doctors per capita and doctors go home to patients, so the patient doesn't have to get up, go order, wait there in line 3, 4, 5 hours but doctors come to the patient at home and take care of him. Among other things, Cuba has its own drug production, so it doesn't depend at all on the pharmaceutical industry, their doctors are highly educated, ethical, practical, determined without a shred of corruption and very, very much invest in disease prevention. Among other things, this prevention is very well reflected in the full transition to organic food, which could be linked to this topic that we were just talking about agriculture. In Cuba, instead of the solidarity of the poor with the rich, we have solidarity with the poor and, in any case, before we engage in this kind of flat-rate assessment of the state secretary who obviously has no idea what's going on in Cuba the same way as Mr. Kovac, who spoke on behalf of the advocate club for 120 seconds, I think we should therefore find out the truth and finally say that it is high time to break up with the harmful, ugly and aggressive policy towards Cuba, give Cuba to be part of the free world, to run its own internal policy, and to finally make these problems that have burdened They've stopped for decades. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. The living wall will support this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132070	Thank you. Representative Cellic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132071	Well, Article 238 was injured, and I think it is inappropriate for a representative in the Croatian Parliament to say that the secretary of state of state has no connection on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132072	The MP has the right to say what he thinks, even though I would ask him to say it the same way. Representative Bulj's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132073	Mr. Celic injured article 238. Is he thinking 238? Is Mr. Celic perhaps thinking that really a colleague of the Bunjac must speak what you think and that he must listen to the untruths of all parliamentary representatives. Mr. Bunjac spoke his mind and he has it right, I think, Mr. Bunjac, that you had to give a warning to Mr. Cellic or that he really wrote what the Bunjac should say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132074	Thank you, Agent Bulj. Representative Branimir Bunjac reported for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132075	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have more or less exhausted what I had to say about Cuba, but now I can possibly allow Mr. Celic if he wants to report for the replica to tell me what he has. I'd just like to say that you should always be guided by the principle of auditory el atera pars, which means you should hear the other side. We simply blindly accept data that comes from the United States, and whatever they say, we accept it as unquestionable truth and then we do it again. Ask yourself what Cuba was until 1957, who led Cuba, see if you can't get at least that Kum II movie, and you'll see that the Cuban people were ruled by the mafia, of course, with the cooperation and blessing of the American government. Ask yourself how many people rotted in the dungeons and were liquidated during that regime, ask around and find out that Cuba had 3 colleges at Fulgencia Batista, that today there are 60, that the vast majority of the inhabitants were illiterate, that the vast majority of the inhabitants didn't even have houses, and then you will know how much they were made and that basically what happened in Cuba was in some way God's justice. And neither Fidel Castro nor his brother Raoul, nor Che Guevara, nor I know who, survived so long in power that he didn't have the support of the people. And now that Fidel Castro is dead and still that people support the same constitution, the same system and what it's called, they're simply satisfied. And if it hadn't been for that trade embargo that I was talking about, which is, therefore, deeply inhumanely unfair, 27 times rejected by the United Nations General Assembly, be assured that today Cuba would be one of the most developed countries of Latin America, which is already what it is now, because in Colombia, Brazil, Chile, I don't know, in many countries, Cuban doctors, not theirs, they don't have doctors, and at least they have quality doctors, they're huge successes. As much as Cuba has helped, let's say Angola, Namibia to defend itself against the invasion of the South African Republic and to bring down the aparted in the first place. The destruction of the aparted is actually a Cuban success. And here we are today listening to Cuba learn human rights, so who supported aparted in South Africa? Who's responsible for that, which states? So I understand that you are afraid, I understand that you have your interests in supporting the corporate banking system, that you simply care about your personal careers, but I worry about the truth, about the truth, and I have read, believe me, tons and tons of books about Cuba and movies I have reviewed, and most importantly, my own mother has been there three times, I haven't, I'm sorry. From the first hand, she could tell me some information that was essentially not available through the media, that she could compare how they live today and how we live. I'm not saying they're better at everything, but what I mentioned, education, health care and trust me and security, the safety of citizens is certainly better there than here. There are no drugs there, there are even fewer dealers and everything that appears to us in a mass form, and even less is that people are dissatisfied with their country as with us where citizens openly despise all institutions and even their own citizenship. So, I repeat this once again, I welcome this agreement, I think it should have happened long before, and I hope that the trade embargo will be abolished, that the borders will be fully opened, and that, at least for my life, so I believe you, too, will get the opportunity to visit Cuba and enjoy all its beauty, history and association with free people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132076	Representative Celic called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132077	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I think your debate was very useful, but you spoke about the US-Cuba relationship, so here is the signing of the Agreement on Joint Cooperation between the EU-Cuba countries and the Commissioner for Development Affairs said that it is not a priority of pressure and sanctions, although it is a matter of human rights, but a constructive engagement, particularly related to the assistance of the people of Cuba, not the support of the government that is currently in Cuba. I agree that what you said, therefore, and for education and health care, that's certainly true, but I don't think there'd be people from the Republic of Croatia who would want to live in Cuba if we looked at the general population and took all those parameters and positive ones that you mentioned, but also the negative ones. So, at a joint meeting between the EU and Cuba in May 2018, only in fifth place were human rights talks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132078	Replication response, MP Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132079	Thank you very much. Representative Celic, therefore, no matter what the EU and Cuba Treaty is, it is quite clear that the contract has been slowed and delayed due to the US influence and is inseparable from US policy, the EU cannot adopt such an agreement without consulting the United States. And as far as Croatian citizens would rather live in the Republic of Croatia than in Cuba, I am not 100% sure, I can't tell you, I don't know what Croatian citizens are so excited about in the Republic of Croatia that they wouldn't be happy to trade for any other country of the world, so it was Cuba, maybe it would be good for someone to go to the sun there, to the beaches there and rest, to rest their soul from all this madness that we have here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132080	Representative Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132081	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bunjac, when we talk about Cuba, about a people who suffered from terror from other countries, because of terror, means that the repression against these people who had to fight for survival and apparently fought, they are already more exporting to the Republic of Croatia than the Republic of Cuba. What does that mean? If this theory Mr. Celic mentioned that Croatian citizens would not go to Cuba, unfortunately, Croatian citizens do not stand in the Republic of Croatia. In my town of Sinj, the Cetina region, there is no pediatrician, there is no radiologist, and call on demographic measures with false promises, mainly for elections, I only said once what all the herds of you ate when you came to the pre-election campaign, and the pediatrician, the doctor, is not in most of the Republic of Croatia, at 2/3 of the Republic, until, as Bunjac said, it's not a problem in Cuba, so we're in worse shape than Cuba, so we need to imagine what it is like with us, who we listen to and who we serve. At least the Croatian people... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132082	Thank you. The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132083	Thank you very much. Representative Bulj, so you're absolutely right that some things should be painted from Cuba to Croatia, and that's, say, public health care. So public health where all services are free, quality and easily available. You in Croatia today have to order for some tests for 2021. And now we can say that there's something much better about us, but it just doesn't stand. So we have a health system that is fragmented rather than a whole health system and is increasingly privatized where different interest groups are fighting for profit. So they are not fighting for the health of citizens but are fighting for profit, i.e. the right to health has become more and more abundantly those people who are rich or have political ties like individual representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132084	Thank you. Representative Bulj reported on individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132085	Thank you very much. This agreement should, of course, be supported that according to Cuba and that part which was meant that I said terrorized by other states, where it was essentially imposed on Cuba of the United States as if they were their exploitation field and it was over many years so done and it was not easy for that people to resist this terror. And the fact that these people in Cuba, that nation, it wasn't easy for him, it wasn't easy for him to go through that history, and they had the pressures from the embargo, from turning their eyes because many governments of the world were courting the United States, which they also caused in other places of crisis, not only in Cuba, but also in others, which supported both numerous crises and numerous wars, many of the organizations we now fear that existed from Al-Qaeda, which they caused, which bin Laden designed and those people who were simply at that time in those conflicts. However, this should be spoken of realistically, should be respected, I was not for a single-party system or I will be, but the fact is that they have an organised health system while we do not have in Croatia. Who's going to help us organize the health system now? I mentioned earlier that in two-thirds of Croatia, here in Makarska, a colleague from Makarska, down from that part, we don't have a lab,... The lab, we don't have doctors, you don't need to be nervous, it's a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I told your Mr. Kovac that we're 80 percent importing from Cuba that we're disgusted with as if it's hard to live and we're exporting 20%. That's a fact. And we're talking about a country where, in which we don't have organised health care services, we've ruined our homes, I'm saying it for my end because I know that women in columns are waiting for months to enroll in breast ultrasound, because we don't have any radiologists, I repeat it again in the Cetina region, it's similar in Lica, it's similar to the Metkovic case down what happened, while it's obviously settled in Cuba. Why did we turn our heads from these countries, and why would we just rely on some big directives in the first place? Of course this is a good thing that came here now to confirm but to this people, so why would they be an exploitation field of some kind of force, why would Croatia be the same exploitation field for anyone? Why did this nation not have freedom but always have some pressure, war, and why the one-party system of communists came? Because there was pressure, what they wanted to make of the colony. And it had to be obedient to the U.S. then, no matter what the United Nations objected to because of these pressures, which are a number of organizations where we are, but we must listen to the United States. So, therefore, I think this should be supported and this is good, but it's civilized to humiliate that people and treat them and side with the stronger, I don't think it's good. We can say that we are weak and we are weak, because of everything we are weak, what we are adding to, Brussels, before Belgrade, Budapest, we always agree, we are always a pariah, so we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. And I wouldn't agree with my colleague Cellic where he says our people wouldn't live in Cuba, but they don't live in Croatia either, they move out. Here we are a member of the EU, at least we have withdrawn funds, since we entered the EU, agriculture has fallen, dairy production, pig farming, domestic animals, we do not produce anything. What extra value? Well 2/3 of Croatia is empty. So, when we look at this data from a colleague of Bunjac, so they started health services, rates, they have doctors, they have 50,000 doctors who can go to other countries, their pharmaceutical industry, their own, and of course we can't be too hard on them and just call on human rights, they're probably breaking human rights there. Are human rights being violated in America, the United States? Are human rights in the EU being violated? Are human rights being violated in Croatia? So when a journalist, the police come to the newsroom asking for personal information and what they're going to write and how they're going to write. Well, it's a dictatorship under the cover of democracy. There we know the one-party system, I'm always for a multiparty, and that's OK, but in us is dictatorship under the cover of democracy and choice. So they even want to change the electoral law for the relative winner to reach 76 mandates, so it's an even bigger dictatorship. It was done, the Kingdom was Yugoslavia, old Yugoslavia and fascist Italy. Therefore, I think that such a relationship with the stronger should always be sided with the weaker because he was exploited, he was under.../incomprehensible/... he was meaning his literally exploiting field where America thought and these great powers to build their empires on blood and resources from these areas. And that's how they came to be. And we don't have to feel guilty about wrestling for nothing. And England was created in colonies, they all created France, they all are, but that boomerang is coming back because those countries and these countries were treated as slaves, only as an exploitation field, and now in this crisis, this crisis where people are getting away from these areas and now Croatia is the only one that runs down and accepts the Marrakek Agreement, of course not even the committee in which Miro Kovac has not given me the conclusion of the vote anymore, all of which caused the great forces, all of the conflicts, so the whole of North Africa and this part of Asia has no country left on the map alone. There's no life organized, just chaos, tribal struggles, robberies, oil fields, where the chemical weapons that were in Iraq are. Where is it? So, just wars because of their interest in exploitation fields, we don't have any more down in that area, no more organized states, so what is it, I have to agree with that regime, but that's a fact. Al, we are running to Marrakesh until our neighbours go to Marrakesh, that is, the EU's position, that Croatia accepts these conflicts initiated by the United States and its assistants, the adversaries and servants, and we are the only ones who run as if our neighbours are neither Italian nor Austrian. Why didn't they go downstairs? Here, I'm sorry Mr. Kovac is an excellent diplomat and I appreciate it, which is why Austria didn't go to Marrakesh, which is why it wasn't a debate about Marrakesh in this assembly, but we Croats are going to do our job and then weirdly there's no plane for them, of course. In that case, you had to listen to Merkel, listen to it, we side with people, no matter what I agree with these systems that run them, but we are worse in this case than Cuba in terms of health, in terms of education and 2/3 of Croatia are empty. And that's the fact that you should talk about it. Does our foreign policy help Croatia or help Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132086	The replica was reported by the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132087	Thank you very much, Representative Bulj, so you're absolutely right when you claim that the revolution in Cuba didn't break out because of communism, although the revolution in Cuba was funded at the beginning by the CIA or by the American government, but it was simply the wrong policy that drove people into the embrace of socialism, and this people eventually accepted it. I'd like to remind you, I see that HDZ agents are preparing to speak for Cardinal Stepinac's sermon. On 30.10.1943, in the Zagreb cathedral when asked if the forests were full of communists, he said no, the forests are full of desperate people to whom they were forced by inhumane acts of government. And then there should be asked once again what are the reasons for the revolution, which are the reason that there has been a rebellion and such a firm attitude that has not been bitten in any way today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132088	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132089	Thank you very much, fellow Bunjac power and supremacy over other people and the exploitation of other peoples and their resources that led to this situation where Cuba was in difficult times, but they survived here. So, personally, no one supports dictatorships or single-party systems, we're all for democracy, but the fact and the pain is when democracy is imposed. The United States is calling for human rights, how will those in Libya be called for human rights when they were bombed or I don't know what for what reason, how in Iraq, where is the chemical weapon, where are those crises? Croatia has been acting like, not as a partner, but as we first run to Merkel that we will open the borders for these refugees, so who is the cause of the wars below, who is the cause of chaos in these areas. And we're the first, we flew Mr. Kovac. Right away in Marrakesh [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not even the board's conclusion, not that we couldn't discuss it. [[Agreement: Representative Bulj, thank you.]] [[Employer: Representative Bulj timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132090	Representative Celic called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132091	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Bulj, we have here such a brief summary of the multilaterals and bilaterals not only at this point of yours, thank you for that. I would therefore refer again to the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between EU countries and Cuba, you know well that there is a difference between EU policy towards Iran and that there is a distinction between the United States and Cuba almost identical, as regards education and education, so I understand what you are saying, but I would rather see health reform in Denmark or school reform in Finland than apply models that have their positive foreign education and healthcare in Cuba and that we implement it in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132092	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132093	We destroyed homes of health that had some sense of meaning so territorially it was a service closer to our citizens in underdeveloped areas that was destroyed, again in Cetitina, probably in Slavonia there are no organised health homes as they used to be. It means nothing's wrong, it's worse now, and that's the key problem. And as for multilaterals and bilaterals as far as I'm concerned, I personally look at only Croatian interests and I don't want to, Croatia knows this situation because of what, just because of the obedience of Brussels, before Belgrade, Budapest, Vienna, and now Brussels we have no politics, we obey policies that.../incomprehensible/... Juncker, Tusk, the great Prime Minister's friend Tajani and the others, that's it. So look how Juncker treats our prime minister, so it'll be literal to you, let him treat Putin or the American president, and you'll see in front of all the world's cameras, that's how he treats our prime minister, that's how he treats Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132094	Representative Misic, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132095	Thank you, Vice President. I listen to you, and I can't believe what we want anymore, what we all want together, and what you're talking about, it's no good, Europe, is Yugoslavia okay? Why did we fight? Because it was good, probably. Cuba, you mention Cuba where it has been shut down for so many years, where we know how the people live, we as a small state must be certain Europe and we wanted it, in the end the people of Croatia wanted it. Therefore, we cannot ask a question worse or worse. Yes, in that Yugoslavia, we drove fictitious, today we have highways and good cars and good houses and good apartments, even extras and still no good. I wonder what we're asking from, let's go through the world and see how people work in the world. We're going to Australia, Germany, and you can see in the morning at 7 to 6 p.m. it's gentlemen. You don't work here and you want to live well. That's not working, that's not working. And we here who are we must know what we are saying, what we want, a message to the people, what the people need, and not... Excuse me, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you, thank you, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132096	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132097	I know fellow Misic who are close to HDZ and who think differently, we are all Yugoslavs, we are all Yugoslavs if you want to say it. ... Yeah, big pain, everybody gave except us who aren't in HDZ. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've all given a great deal of pain, it's an obel immeasurable to an independent Republic of Croatia. ... Your pain is that you can't believe it because we're Yugoslavs and you're like Croats, you're patriots. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 2/3 of Croatia is empty, greater damage has been done in an independent Croatia for which it was killed than by the Turkish Empire, because of the court policy and the service policy of our diplomats. [[Subject Petrov: Representative Misic, please.]] The diplomats lead the Republic of Croatia by the President of the Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. We've never had worse relations and more service policy against the interest of the Republic of Croatia as we have now. And that story that's not in HDZ... Where I've been, you don't care you're not, you'll never be where I've been or you can figure out where I've been. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Subject Petrov: Representative Misic!]] You can't figure it out at all. You think you're sitting in a bench with HDZ right now that you're the only patriot. ... Come on, sit down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132098	Thank you. Representative Stier. Representative Misic for the fifth time, please don't throw it out of the bench. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Davor Stier reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the agreement between the EU and Cuba has indeed been negotiated for a long time, there have been a number of obstacles. The main obstacle to this was that the treaty had long been that Cuba had long not wanted the component of this agreement to be both political dialogue and human rights dialogue. That's what she didn't want because Cuba simply wanted to avoid the issue of human rights, the issue of political freedom in Cuba, didn't want to talk about democracy or the path to democracy and respect for individual freedoms. At one point of course, when the international circumstances also changed, the space opened up and the EU simply took advantage of that possibility and this agreement was signed and I think it is good in this context and should be supported. Of course we heard in this debate that the people of Cuba are being oppressed. But who oppresss him most? Most of all, he is oppressed by the communist rule in Cuba, the regime, it's dictatorship. And if that was a dictatorship, I didn't just say that I said it recently and published the book of nephew Che Guevara, Martin Guevara, born here in Argentina as well as Che Guevara and went away, moved as a boy to Cuba and saw a minor what it looks like and now wrote a book, I recommend to all those who defend that regime in Cuba to read that book, it's called "In a Sit One Myth". It was written by the nephew of that... Che Guevara, Martin Guevara. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it describes how the To Gods were all supposed to be equal after that communist revolution but still they were more equal than each other. It describes how he was actually a member of a privileged caste, a Red bourgeoisie, what if you wanted in the former Yugoslavia, Gilas became a new class master. On the side of what I thought of Gilas, but as far as this book is concerned, the new class is indeed a classic that describes the horrors, the conceptual horrors of communism. Because it's often heard that Communism was a great idea, here's the damage to realisation. No, Communism is a terrible idea and then even scarier realization. And to go back to Cuba, that Martin Guevara nephew Che Guevara describes everything. He clearly says in the book, we all knew who we enjoyed while the people were suffering and that communist peak enjoyed the privileges, we all knew that revolution was actually a big lie but we lived well and we still sold that flossula. And today, in Cuba, that floscula is being sold. And today in Cuba today, the power is exclusively, it can't be defined as one dictatorship, if you want military dictatorship now, because it's mostly the military that took over and, of course, the intelligence community, as more or less in all communist countries. They want to preserve the one-party system and slowly open the issue of private ownership. A very dangerous trend, however, through political dialogue, through EU economic co-operation, of course it can and should affect the process as transparently as possible, to actually achieve a real transition. Of course we know how this privileged class, this red bourgeoisia, can take advantage of the transition, we know that, we don't need others to tell us, but we also need to learn some lessons from that and really help when it can be done to this Cuban people who are mentioned here so many times today. But, let's be honest, the greatest damage to this people today is doing exactly that dictatorial power in Cuba, and if we say being there for the weaker one, is, then we need to be on the side of those people who are seeking freedom, we need to support that freedom for the Cuban people, we need to support the processes of democratisation and opening up that state so that there is no further one dictatorship as it is so far. And in that context, I think it is good that the HS also ratifys this agreement between the EU and Cuba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132100	Representative Celic called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132101	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, you well know the relations between the Latin American countries, Pope Benedict XVI, who visited Cuba as a cardinal said that communist regimes are a disgrace to our time. The Holy See played a major role in improving Cuba's relations with other countries, as well as with the United States, but it's mentioned enough when we talk about human rights that the first Cuban Cardinal Arteaga was two years in asylum at the Argentinean Embassy before he was sent to the hospital where he died, and it should also be taken into account the fact that Pope Francis who advocates the citizens of Cuba received Bertussole who led Cuban women in white and thus showed which direction Cuba should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132102	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132103	That fellow Celic, you have said well, indeed the Catholic Church has played and continues to play a very important role, warns, of course, of the horrors of the communist regime, on the other hand helping the Cuban people and Cuban society to move towards one democracy. As regards this association, Damascus de Blanco, as they are originally called, they are also from the European Parliament, but when we talk about EU-Cuba relations, they have won the Sakharov Prize, precisely for freedom of conscience, freedom of conscience is an important category among European values and a special prize is intended for the European Parliament And she gave it to that very association. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132104	Thank you. The representative of Bunjac answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132105	Thank you very much. Agent Stier, I greatly appreciate that you quote books in your discussions, but I am very concerned that you are calling for military intervention in Cuba and that you are reselling this military intervention with one and the same arguments used for intervention in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya and other countries. Do you really think NATO, the CIA and other agendas have brought democracy to Libya? Do you think the citizens of Libya live better or worse today than at the time of the declared dictator Gaddafi? Do you know that at the time of Gaddafi, every young couple received $50,000 a day for the wedding, and today the people of Libya do not have electricity? So don't interfere with the domestic affairs of sovereign nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132106	Answer to the replica, counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132107	My colleague, if signing an agreement that requires dialogue is for you to call for military intervention, then don't support it. But from what I understand, you support this agreement just as much as I support it. Then why are you manipulating? What are you talking about? I was saying that I support exactly the dialogue with Cuba, but I don't support the communist dictatorship. Do you support dictatorship? Now, that's the real question. This dialogue is possible precisely because Cuba has allowed human rights dialogue to be opened at some point, a political dialogue that must lead to the democratisation of Cuba, and that is good. And I hope in this HS we all advocate democracy, not the defense of one terrible dictatorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132108	Representative Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132109	Thank you. Comrade Stier, I fully agree with you, of course you didn't say any war option, but I don't understand that even colleagues here in HS still support the communist system, I simply don't understand it or they don't like it if they're not in power. We know and have experienced communism and we know how we lived in it, today to say that better communism is better than democracy, which, of course, the Croatian state is still not as well as it should be, but we are here to fight for justice to be complex, beautiful and orderly. In the end, democracy is changing, whether we are either a third here or these ministers or they, but in communism, therefore, I have the impression that those who appreciate communism enjoyed communism, while certain 90% of the people suffered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132110	Replication response, Agent Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132111	Thank you, buddy. I truly believe that after the experience we have had and how the state is clear and that is the constitutional value that we advocate democracy. And we all took an oath to that Constitution. So these are our constitutional values. We're talking here, at least as far as this debate is concerned, about what's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I don't care what they think of it any other country or Russia, so if you don't want the United States about Cuba. But yes, what are universal values and that we support freedom for the Cuban people. Others may receive instructions and tell them from the east, here's what needs to be supported by some dictatorial regime in Cuba. That's their problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132112	Ante Babic's representative reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132113	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Stier, when you spoke about this final bill you said and you warned that it was actually not possible to sign this agreement because Cuba was the one who did not accept this agreement because of political dialogue, and that means protecting human rights, freedom and speech of movement, movement of goods and services, and that's true. But what actually opened my eyes when you were saying, I mean, that nostalgia actually after the regime in which people lived in the communist regime, you said, it's conceptually, conceptually, as it was, and people don't really realize that this communist regime was a dictatorial regime, and that it's also a confirmation that some praise that they were all the same, more equal, it's a good thing that you mentioned the book of granddaughter Che Guevara, which many, respected colleagues can open their eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132114	Replication response, Agent Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132115	Thanks, buddy. You have also given good warning to the fact that some do not even understand still have some nostalgia, but some do not understand why, for example. Anti-communist, if you will, forces in Central and Southeast Europe have been supported precisely by those working layers. They thought, they should be on the side of communism, and not so those communist dictatorships actually created a red bourgeoisie, they created a new class of privilegeds, while the people actually suffered. And that's why they saw in their own skin that it didn't work, that it was a lie. And that's why, perhaps, if you will, you have this paradox, that those parts of the people who may have been working activities actually voted against that communist government and sought democracy. That's what happened with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132116	Thank you. Representative Miro Kovac reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we are witnessing an interesting debate on an agreement between the EU and its Member States and Cuba. I was particularly inspired by the presentation of our friend and colleague Mira Bulj, but also by my colleagues, Bunjca. And first of all, I'm going to say something about what my colleague Stier said about communism. In Cuba, the regime, but also elsewhere in the world, means these regimes were communistally export products of the Soviet Union. And we can read the book of the grandson of Che Guevara, but it's better to have some kind of local authors. People who were in the Soviet Union and were in the gulags. For example, Ante Ciliga, who was a Croatian communist. Not a Yugoslav communist. Who was a Croatian communist, an idealist, went to the Soviet Union and ended up in a gulag. And he wrote a book in French in 38 C.E. that came out in Paris by a famous publisher entitled In a Land of Great Lies. In 38, Ante Ciliga writes about the SS, communism, gulags and the land of great lies. There he meets with Soviet revolutionaries in Paris who have become, whether, opponents of the regime and socialize with them and there awaits the arrival of the German army in Paris. Just so much for it. So in 38 C.E., former communist idealists and former revolutionaries knew that it had nothing to do with it. And today to defend the communist regime in Cuba, which is inefficient, which does not function effectively because the country is poor, some of my acquaintances were there the other day talking about wonderful people and agreeing with my colleague Bunjec about very well-educated doctors, many say that although I am not a doctor. But the country is poor. So some kind of nostalgia behind these times of communism is really out of place, after all, all these regimes collapsed because of inefficiency. And I'm not going to talk about the fact that they've been violated by general human rights. Yugoslavia as such has never joined the General Declaration of Human Rights. Never. So much for that, so much for those in our society who are still talking about some Yugoslavia, a communist. So much for that. And now let's move on to this agreement one more time. We're with friends from the United States in a big community called, if you will, the political west. We're in that camp together, if that's what we're gonna say, but we're different. We have a broad camp of the political west with them, we are part of it but we here in Europe and we who, by our will, wanted to join the EU, have a different approach and a different philosophy, as well as towards Cuba. And what my colleague Cellic said and so on about Cuba. And if these things continue to develop, we will still have differences in approach. And if we want to, of course, it's at least my approach to stay together in that big political west camp because a lot of things bind us both culturally and historically and in many areas and interestingly. So I'm glad to recognize in this Assembly my fellow Buli, my former HDZ party colleague who has the right to say that HDZ is not responding to him, but I'm glad he was also a member of my party and not just patriots in HDZ, there are other parties, so as to protect him, Bulj was a patriot, whether he was in HDZ or not, but I'm glad he was in HDZ. So I'm glad we have a quality majority in this Croatian Parliament for this agreement with Cuba. We as the Republic of Croatia are a country which, up until a few years ago, was still in the stage of imitation, of adopting standards, of not having the strength or the ability to be so much if you want to be sovereign in decision-making, we today when we enter into this political West, we are co-forming reality in this wider camp and we today see our own interests and our interest in many areas and in these trade agreements we can achieve. So I am pleased to conclude that we have a consensus in the Parliament on this agreement between the EU, its Member States and Cuba. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132118	Representative Bunjac, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132119	Thank you very much. Representative Kovac, you have precisely stated that Ante Ciliga wrote the book "In the land of lies", that he rejected communism, but you did not specify one other thing and as was his later political path, he also wrote the book "Through Europe in the war", I hope that you read that sequel although he was rightly disappointed in the communist order in the Soviet Union, he never blindly accepted the other side. So he stayed for the rest of his life and lived for over 90 years and died in an independent and independent Croatia, highly critical of US policy and always of a lifetime of deep social feelings. Your position is about like this, we found that Yugoslavia was wrong, that communism was not good, but now we have to automatically throw ourselves on the other side and everything not critically accept what the United States is offering us. I think that Croatia, given that the European country and a specific country with tradition, its own culture and history, which is much older than the history of the United States should yet build some independent pathway. In the end, that's why states exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132120	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132121	My colleague Bunjac, I'm glad you read Anta Ciliga, too, and this book he wrote while he was in exile in Italy. Look, it seems to me that we agree on one thing and that all together we must agree on who we are representatives elected to the Croatian Parliament. By the logic of things were we from one party or another Croatia in the first place. And our view of the world is croatocentric, we go from ourselves, we don't go from the region or from something else or third, we go from ourselves and look at our interests. And we forgive no one, watch what we can accomplish. And we're not fixed on someone or anything, we're fixed on ourselves, on our own interests. And when some partners make mistakes or do things that harm our interests, we say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132122	Representative Misic, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132123	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you said that Ante Ciliga wrote that book, that he had gone to Russia, that he was probably a great communist to see what communism looked like. He was disappointed, of course, just as we were disappointed in Yugoslavia in the '90s and came out of it but unfortunately with the war. And our people wanted democracy, democratically sought another power, but here we have experienced what we are. Now I want to ask you, is this book translated into Croatian? ... Yeah, here's great, so I'm gonna have to read it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is not clear to me that in this society, even among us, there are people who still suffer for communism and Yugoslavia, that is what I find particularly interesting about people living here in Yugoslavia and not Croatia. Therefore, they are tormented, and then they speak and Cuba is good and in Cuba there should be, of course, a democracy that is not and we know how they lived and we all saw and read, but unfortunately we still have this kind of thinking, so there is also in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132124	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132125	I'll be brief. Dear fellow Music, meaning not only was he in camps in the Soviet Union, he was also in Jasenovac,... This book is written in Croatian and can be bought in Croatian bookstores and I recommend to anyone who has time and wills the book, Ante Ciliga and his confession about how he welcomed the German forces in Paris, how he ended up in NDH and was in Jasenovac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Read it if you have time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132126	Representative Goran Aleksic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132127	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a lot of floscules here today, and otherwise we're like, we like to act, we don't like to tell the truth, we don't like to turn to the past in the right way, speak frankly, we just keep acting, we're that simple. First of all, Communism never became anywhere, it's just a floscule, that's a word, Communism is a utopian society that never existed anywhere. There were, of course, so-called. Communist dictatorships, but they weren't communist at all, they were just dictatorships. For something to be Communism according to some theoretical settings, it takes a society of perfect people, people who are perfect in their heads, who don't hate everyone around them, it's similar to Christianity, in fact, Christianity and communism have no significant difference except that communism doesn't recognize God, and Christianity says that God has, but these are essentially similar settings. But the communist dictatorship is equal to any dictatorship and it destroys people, of course. If we go back to Cuba, of course it was a dictatorship, it was called a communist, but it wasn't actually a communist, it was simply a dictatorship. Was she in the Croatian dictatorship during Yugoslavia? No, it was an authoritarian system, so it wasn't a dictatorship, because if it was a dictatorship then those people wouldn't be able to go out freely, they couldn't do what they wanted, they could go wherever they wanted, I was born 65. And I don't remember being prevented from anything in my life, I finished primary school, high school, college, I could go out, I had a passport, I didn't have any obstacles in my life, they called me into a party three times, I didn't get into a party unlike maybe some of you here, I don't know which one, which one they might have signed up for that party because they needed it to advance in the business. I didn't want to join the party, and I didn't think about making progress in a way that I was going to get ahead in the game, and I wanted to make progress with my work. Well, even here in HS, I ended up, thanks to my activation, not because I'm a member of some party, and you're all party members and thanks to the party you're here, not to your work. So you're typical of these so-called. A dictatorship where it could only progress by participating in a party, without a party, you wouldn't be anyone or anything. So, the thing is, there's a lot of farce here, a lot of acting, and a little truth. Cuba is not a communist country, Cuba was a dictatorship. Of course, this agreement that comes to the agenda will support me because it's good to work with everyone in this world and so on with Cuba. However, in the world there is a principle of a stronger dog, I am not going to say that heavy saying that is a bit simple, but I will say a saying that is relatively simple, the saying says "a stronger dog is the one that will get more bones." Therefore, those few countries that do not participate in the world's movements in the way most participate, are condemned to isolation, it was North Korea, it was Cuba, these were countries of the Eastern Block before, beware, Yugoslavia was not isolated because Yugoslavia was in that situation, together with it because they had some ruler who was still a little different thinkers than these other dictators, so the country was, however, a little more free, let's say, and its citizens, can't compare one Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and the former Republic, the Socialist Republic, because simply the Socialist Republic in the former Yugoslavia was a much more free country than these countries were. So, we're telling the truth, let's not be ashamed of our past, why are we running from our past? We have one monument in this eastern Germany where Marx and Engels are and it's not that monument that's been destroyed, but it says down there, "We're sorry, we'll do better," and we're all down, there's no past, we started living in the '90s, so how is it possible that we only started living in the '90s? And I don't know how familiar you all are here, but the Croatian state has been since 74th, so in 74th year, the Republic of Croatia has become a state, not 90th. In the 74th year, the Constitution says that every republic and state, it says in the constitution, Mr. Kovac, is writing. So, every republic in the SFRY 74th year became also a state that had the right to secede from the federal state, and this is the Republic of Croatia based on the SFRY constitution and made it 90th, just because it had the right under the constitution. The second thing is that some of the countries in that former state found it wrong, first Serbia, of course, so they caused war, we could have a nice divorce, unfortunately, there was no smartness, but the Republic of Croatia had just received the right to secede and it did. So let's not lie, our first president was a Partizan communist, convinced communist and atheist, partisan, communist, atheist, founder by you, the Republic of Croatia. What are we talking about? Let's stop lying about the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132128	Representative Kovac reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132129	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Aleksic, I have some things to explain, so the Constitution of the National Republic of Croatia and 47 years. I quote in the article. 1. "The National Republic of Slovenia is a national state of republican form", here it is, 47, meaning, not 74. Let's move on, in art. 2. it says that I quote myself to the Croatian people, expressing my free will, and based on the right to self-determination, including the right to secession united with other peoples etc. United on the basis of, so, 47 years, regardless of course on OZNA, on these other things, whether or not on paper, not on paper 74.g. colleague Alexic, so, National Republic of 47, I quote, was a state and then already based on principle self-determination [[Intruder: Thank you]] and secessions. [[You're out of time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132130	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132131	Thank you. My colleague Kovac, thank you for correcting me, I'm not much of a historian, so I was mistaken for 74th, but here you have confirmed only my words that the Croatian state is long ago, not since yesterday and I'm glad that you confirmed my words and I would like to really stop throwing ourselves around here with flossules, demagogues and start living as normal as all other people and stop being ashamed of our past which is basically good in the large part and be proud of what we were when we were. Unfortunately, we didn't continue this tradition of ours, where we were a little bit more of a factor than we are now. Now we're the little dog who has to listen to the big dog. And that's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132132	And so we came back to Yugoslavia, Ustasha and Partisan via Cuba. For the closing statement on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, MP Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132133	Thank you very much. We started about Cuba, we ended up who knows, in the region, as Mr Kovac says, and in the European Parliament, she's just the person who advocated big Serbia in the European Parliament, Vukic, you're in a coalition with him in that same party, the European, the police, so I don't know who's defending the region, and that's not the topic at all. This isn't a topic at all. It's Cuba and relations with Cuba. But you've denied yourself, you said it's bigger, we're more importing, than we're exporting to Cuba, and at a huge amount, we're importing 80% more, which means you're defusing yourself in everything. Then you went to Yugoslavia, to the Yugoslavs, so if anyone in this House, here, for a multi-party, I was and no problem was I being in that first party, then in the HDZ. Then when your diameter wasn't... who is now the party president, he doubled in 2011 whether he will be in that party or perhaps be, we should ask, I don't know who Loncar or who led it all, when he entered diplomacy, we gentlemen are talking about Cuba today, we are talking about relations today, how Croatia should behave, because we are bringing this agreement, who will support it or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you have come and returned and talked about communism, about Yugoslavia, about these problems. Well, gentlemen, two-thirds of Croatia is empty, that's unfortunate. In free Croatia. And the truth is that the Croatian soldier has freed the Croatian state, to the common ground. The Croatian soldier, that is true, has freed Croatia, and certainly no coalition partner, who called in Glina, the Vučić Chetnik, who called on the Serb people to rebel against his people, and here we need to mention people of Serbian nationality, who were in the troops of the Croatian defence forces HOS, the Croatian Army and you are now calling here, and the damages have been done huge, damages by huge, courtship, diplomats, who are now at the head of the Croatian state, the damages are immeasurable. First of all, you brought Vukic here, who made fun of the Croatian people, in coalition with the man when Storm Day, in China, he celebrates in Bačka Palanka, that's the region. That's what you represent. You've allowed jurisdiction, legal jurisdiction, across the whole Serbia area, to get a small HAG, no one is opposed, to have defenders at a shooting range in Belgrade, to include them. The issues of war crimes are not resolved, it is a region, and in the European People's Party, you were not against it, you did not raise your voice when Vucic's party, the Vucica, the Chetnik, this or the one, who was hoarding the people of poor Serbian and did this. And advocacy and sloganism to the council is not... I represent only the Croatian interests, the interests of my people from where it chooses me, neither Russian nor American. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if you had diplomats, we'd have fighter planes today, and we don't have them, and the Croatian army has disabled with your poor diplomatic lady. Secretaries of conduct, i.e. Apparently poor diplomacy and that's the problem. And as for Cuba itself, I respect the multi-party, but who was terrorizing Cuba, who exploited Cuba, who started all the wars in the environment? Who started it? Is that what the Croatian people started? Did your empire create a Croatian people over colonies like other states now led by Macron, Juncker, these Merkels, who created the empire? And today, you're going back to Yugoslavia, you're talking about Yugoslavia, it's just lame, it's so stupid to mention, we're talking about current problems, that we have enough doctors in Cuba, we don't have in Croatia. No matter how bad you say it is, that health care is better organised, better organised, that we have 2/3 of Croatian empty today, these are the problems of free independent Republic, which should have been free and independent, but because of the courtship, our political leaders, do you know that everyone here, that at the head of the state, our diplomats are the strongest, the president of the Parliament, the president of the state, the president of the government, we never had worse relations with all the states and in the environment and around. So a lot of courtship, a lot of half-dozenness, but we're fighting for Croatian interests, not Russian, not American, but only Croatia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132134	Thank you very much. The final word will also be given by the representative of the Bunjac, in the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132135	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's interesting to hear how communists, most of all, are fighting the party, packed with former communists, a party full of atheists, who are in the '90s. Mr., who turned over their coats and became the greatest believers, and I don't know the Americans, and they weren't able to even carry on an illustration until today. So I wouldn't waste any more time on that, but I'm sorry that the HDZ gentlemen support the American system that they call just. And I'd like you to, I'd like Mr. Kovac, Stier and the others, if you were an American security guard in their health system, so if you accidentally get sick, I'm just saying it figuratively, of course I want you every good, so to see how much money you'd have to spend on some banal disease, you'd have to give me five or seven thousand dollars or I don't know how much to fix your teeth. God forbid you've got some serious disease, you'd sell everything you've got, take out your loans, that's enough. And this system you unfortunately want to introduce in Croatia, that is, what is important because you hope naively that you will be in the 2% false elite that can afford treatment and that can afford all the benefits of American capitalism, but you will not because nothing in this life is fixed, nothing is eternal and nothing is simple every life, every generation has its ups and downs. Therefore, this would be better if you had a more pronounced social line at the end of Croatia is at point 1. The constitution of the social state, to further advocate public access to health care, for free health care, for greater investment in education, to resolve the issue of meals of hungry school children, to resolve the issue of the transportation of students, to resolve the issue of enough scholarships, to resolve the issue of non-intentional spending of money at universities where huge money is given for things that are not intended, where some professors pay bonuses and have salaries and more than 40,000 kuna net, and on the other hand students have to pay admissions in semesters, they can't even get scholarships, people, students fight, parents hands and legs to get those 700 kuna state scholarships, so they don't get them, they don't have enough room in their homes, students are forced to work or even give up colleges, student awards don't exist, that they don't even exist, that they don't know that there't have any rewards of 1,000 kunas and they't have to be named for all the students. So these are the real problems that you should think about, but you're simply thinking about in a way that's just a banking corporate sector, yes, where everything has to be subject to profit, where all of these people have to be terrified of some kind of false ideologies that actually no longer exist, and you just don't think about doing huge damage to not only the free nations of the world, but what's the worst of everything and your own people. And we should really think about how it is possible today that 2% of the world's population is holding in the hands of 70% of the world's wealth, how it is possible that today in the world we have so many weapons that we can destroy the planet of the earth 10 times, and we continue to advocate military solutions and continue to support this aggression against countries that in no way threaten world peace and international order. So this contract is great, and I can agree with you that it is a step forward, but this one should generally leave, leave the policy that you have introduced in Croatia, which is therefore a policy of simply creating artificial divisions, creating a society in which other people are enemies and creating a society in which I can be happy and satisfied only in a way that someone else is self/incomprehensible/... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132136	For the final word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, MP Miro Kovac will give.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132137	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here's another time I'm going to say that I'm glad we had one, one quality debate when it comes to this agreement between the EU and Cuba, and we've heard from fellow Alexic some of his thoughts about Yugoslavia and the communist system, but there's nothing wrong with us talking about it, is it, now it's not, it's some kind of intellectual acrobatics, which is missing, there's nothing wrong with it, but when we're already talking about these divisions of fellow Bunjac, we're trying to reduce tension in Croatian society, to have understanding about some processes that may not be proper in our society, it doesn't mean that we're creating divisions, it doesn't mean that we't mean that we're going back in the past. Some things need to be processed, they need to be discussed and sure that we have plenty more space in Croatia when it comes to editing a culture of memories. This is very important, this is very important and I am convinced that we will gradually achieve a more quality dialogue and relationship in our political community on this plan. Mr. and colleague Bulj was talking about the region, the region is like this whether it's colloquial, it's one way of thinking that's less and less present at all because it's not natural. The man always comes out of himself if he's like in his private life, so whether or not he's a political community, I'll say once again, so we're a country called the Republic of Croatia that has its own interests, its own needs, our own obligations and we're accordingly setting up and developing strategies, means that our view of the world by the logic of things that are self-centered, if we can help somewhere then we'll help. So now that we're talking about Cuba, I'm glad that one party is like the Living Wall that is for the EU to exit, that it admits that this is a good instrument of cooperation with a third country in the case of Cuba. So there are good things, and I'm glad that's how we get our consensus here. When we talk about the health system of our colleagues, Bunjac, it is true that the Americans on this plan have a completely different tradition and practice and many Americans, and you know it very well with great admiration relations or talk about European countries when it comes to the social system, the health system, they envy us because of that, that I am taking a little bit of a shower. In Croatia it is at a high level when we compare it to the United States, even in other European Union countries, and that is what we... to be proud, and that is what is called the Croatian way of life or if we are to extend it the European way of life, which differs in that segment from the American way of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I repeat, we are both together in this camp called the political West, we differ in some things, even when it comes to politics towards Cuba, but this is a good instrument of cooperation, and I am glad that this debate, this way of expressing our opinions, has shown little to the distinguished secretary of state and associate that there are sometimes nice episodes of conversation and exchange of views. I thank you once again and I am glad that we have reached a consensus, that the HDZ Representatives Club has given an incentive to such a positive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132138	This concludes the debate if you don't mind. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The session will continue tomorrow at 09.30 a.m., the first item of the agenda will be the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 27 October 2017 to 15 July 2018. The National Council shall be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Thank you. Session interrupted at 16.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-14-0.u132139	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Political Dialogue and Cooperation between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, reading, P.Z. No. 581. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, but I am voting on the final draft of the law. I find that a unanimous 81 vote has been adopted FOR the adoption of a Law confirming the Agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Cuba on the other.
