ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168216	We are going to the agenda as stated in the debate plan. Based on an article. 247. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose a pool of discussions on the following two points: 1. Proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projection for 2020 and 2021 are also submitted: - Proposals for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projection for 2020 and 2021 are also submitted: - Proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-profit users for 2019 and projection of plans for 2020 and 2021 with an explanation for: - Croatian Water - Croatian Roads - Centre for restructuring and sale - Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019, second reading, P.Z. No. 790 Since no one is against it, I find that these two points of the agenda are united. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 39. Budget law and Art. 211. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of the Article shall apply. 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article. 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I ask the Government's representative to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget and the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2019, the respected Minister of Finance, Mr Zdravko Marić. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168217	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Here, as it is said, it is up to me to present and present the most important elements of the amendment and addition of the State budget for 2019 as the same binding law on the implementation of that same budget for this year. So in 2019 we are still in progress, we are witnessing and we are well-known macroeconomic indicators, but in this report itself, in its very explanation in the first part, I would say not only traditionally but also in accordance with the Budget Law, it is given a review of all macroeconomic indicators from which it is very clear that the continuation of economic activity is visible in 2019, positive trends in certain segments and sectors of the Croatian economy are more than visible but also visible and certain challenges that I think we should all be very clear and articulated about them in an argumentable, correct way to discuss and see what and how to do both our economies and thus society in the whole state and all of our citizens, however, with an even greater and stronger perspective in terms of living standards growth. So the first half of the year, we have data for the first two quarters, the growth of the economy is 3.1%, and when we look at the decomposition of individual components, from the expenditure side of GDP, the trend is again visible, and in some ways I would say, the traditional strong contribution of personal consumption to this same growth, what is particularly looking forward to the first half of this year is the growth of investment, the mah and investment are from the public sector, but what is important is that we are nevertheless articulating and we say that private investments are the ones that always contribute the most and give somehow the greatest added value to the whole economy. The growth of exports, goods, services has continued, however, not at those rates that we have recorded in recent years, however, there is among other things that one of the first challenges I will mention here, which is the item that shows imports of goods and services, which again indicates that as soon as we have domestic demand growth, as soon as we have export growth that we also see imports, goods and services grow automatically. In other words, what gives some conclusion is that our economy still has quite a high import dependence and in some ways there is one of the things where when we ask ourselves how and how to further stimulate economic growth safely through the strengthening of the domestic component mainly of production and, above all, those of which have both the export effect and the export effect. This is also evident from the production side of GDP because growth records all practically components and retail trade and agriculture and some others, however, what needs to be particularly apostrophe because the very clear message we see on the part of industrial production is that of certain producers or businesses or sectors that are in certain problems. As a rule, the restructuring process has not been passed, the opening of the EU internal market and our formal EU accession to a number of these companies has actually meant only an additional challenge than those companies that have made restructuring and adequate preparation long before our formal accession to the EU and which are actually of the internal market only benefiting from it. As for the revenue foreign budget implementation so far, we have, of course, the execution of 10 months, we have in the draft budget that we put before you on the bench actually available then at that moment with the latest available data and we have calculated them among other things and combined them into the projection of revenue by the end of the year. So what's important to say is that the revenue side of the budget relative to the plan, so here we compare to the original plan because today the proposal for changes and additions to the state budget, the total revenue side of the budget is about a billion and 444 million kuna is more than or 1.1%. However, when we isolate the effect of tax revenues in this way, tax revenues are 3 billion and 61 million higher compared to the original plan. So again, I will repeat what I think already and 4x speak in the Croatian Parliament, every time we represent tax, that is, the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget cannot be referenced to tax changes. So it is once again shown that any incursion into the tax system in one way that we consider to be good, that it relieves citizens, taxpayers, either entrepreneurs or any citizen has its own feedback positive effect. First of course, first of all to certain segments of economic activity whether we talk about consumption, whether we talk about investments or others. But also, directly or indirectly, they have a positive feedback effect on the budget. In addition to all this, I have been listening a lot and, among other things, to the segment that speaks and compares us according to the proportion of tax revenues in GDP and some comparison with other countries, we cannot mention another element that through all the rounds of tax one single tax reform and all the rounds of tax changes we have not actually added and made this tax system more passable to facilitate but also to the tax administration or tax authorities and then finally do what you also mentioned many times in the Croatian Parliament, and that is that these different forms of tax ejaculation are further reduced. We cannot say that they are reduced or reduced to a minimum but in any case this trend of reducing tax ejaculation or increasing tax discipline is also visible. When we talk about the income side of course the largest item is as usual the value added tax, the strongest item, it, alone as an individual category, increases about 4.3% or almost 2 billion and 200 million kuna more compared to the plan. And yet I will remind you in some way to show and prove the words mentioned earlier. In the tax system, you know that just this year, we have come under amendments to the law on value added tax that reduced or meant reducing the overall value added tax from 25 to 13 for a whole series of products of food, live animals, fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables and eggs, but also some categories such as non-receptive medicines even to 5%. So the effect as you can see in the tax system or in the revenue of the budget is also visible. The profit tax is what always makes me particularly personally happy because it is a clear signal of overall economic activity, an increase in profit tax of about 4%, 350 million kuna more compared to the plan. There are also special taxes and excise duties, somewhere around 480 million or 3% more compared to the plan and the contributions that when you look at this table you have an index of 100, so there is no change compared to the original plan. However, what is particularly important to mention when you look at the year-on-year, so despite the fact that since this year we have practically no longer two contributions, a contribution to the unemployed and a contribution to labour injuries and practically one single contribution that is in the National Budget proposal is a contribution to pension insurance, health contribution is an extra- budget fund now HZZO, so we have a very clear signal that the labour market continues with a good trend and this is an increase and employment but also pays because it is ultimately effective in almost 5% of the year-to-year growth of these contributions. As far as aid is concerned, we know for ourselves that the most significant part of the one relating to European funds, so when we look at that segment compared to the planned amount of aid of $17.5 billion, is our final assessment and in this proposal the rebalancing is 15.2 billion, so some 12.8% less. Such a trend has been visible and visible in recent years. Budgetary users, as well as some others, plan to use the usability of European funds according to some planned dynamics of withdrawing funds and realising certain projects but numerous factors, objectively in the sense that sometimes tenders last a little longer than is predicted, that there is also a system of complaints, and a variety of elements where further prolongation of these deadlines can happen then all together has an effect on this usability, or on the withdrawal itself. However, I would say, on top of that, the conclusion that we all need to draw together is that trends in terms of the withdrawal of European funds are good. Every year we record two-digit growth rates, however, we have not yet reached the levels at which we will come and in some way say and conclude it is some sort of normal or standard rate and percentage of absorption on an annual basis, which in some ways we will go through this whole period or period of accession itself and reach that level that many other countries, members of the EU that have already joined us much earlier. And that is why it is important that these procedures themselves are further facilitated, the withdrawal of European funds are rules of the game that are very clearly prescribed, worth all countries, but very clearly on our part any central, any local level, or any other systems, let us not further complicate the procedure and generally compose certain things where we are in some way putting ourselves in a position to have certain delays in terms of the implementation of tender procedures etc. There is, among other things, a well-known system and general legislation that regulates public procurement where, from some perhaps more visible, more visible examples over the past period, it is very clear to read that there are certain reasons for correcting or progressing space for progress as such exists. As far as the expenditure side of the budget is concerned, this is actually the most significant part of the state budget rebalancing proposal. So, the original plan when all the sources of the budget are summed up and the general ones affecting the total result and the European funds and their own dedicated revenues, the original plan of the state budget was planned for €14.3 billion. With this rebalance, it decreases by about a billion to 139 billion kuna. However, not only is this reduction in total because of this very clearly read and just before my share of the European funds, more importantly a very clear message, not only for you as the parliamentary representatives who are discussing and ultimately voting for the Croatian public, but also for the Croatian public, which is that segment of the expenditure side of the budget financed by the so-called so-called budget. general sources, taxes, contributions, various types of public contributions that have no specific purpose, so we collect them, income them and pay our pensions, salaries, subsidies, diverse capital investments, etc., etc. $11.5 billion is the original plan, $11.5 billion is the proposal for a rebalance. In other words, for the fourth year in a row, we don't break the original limit we draw. In the context of the opportunities that we have, which you have in some way approved on the basis of the Government's proposal, we have been acting a team more here than we have in recent years here, and I must say, during this year, and by the end of the year, we have had the need to implement certain categories of expenditure by the budget above what was originally planned, first of all, I would say objective facts and factors, I will start from the most significant, pensions. The peace was originally scheduled for this year 40.1 billion kuna. In the first half of the year you know yourself in the spring, and then the second time since 1.9 we have two indexations of pensions. A well-known so-called. The Swiss formula, which in the case of Croatia, is mild and corrected through recent amendments to the legislation where the weighting between wage growth and price growth is increasing to 70% in favour of the category that is higher and the favorite of the pensioners, therefore one that can contribute to a higher indexation. It led to the indexation of something beyond our original predictions. On such a high base and small percentages of changes have an effect on the overall mass for pensions and pensioners. If I'm lucky, I'll always say that, where luck is it that an increase in pensions can be even bigger, where we're lucky to have these fiscal capacities and few other circumstances that could help us grow more. However, this indexation slightly above expectations led to an additional 900m kuna requirement by the end of the year. Then, you know well about wages, a very current topic, so we took over the agreement, or in some way with one group of unions, we reached an agreement, with the other through the calming system to increase the wages by 3%, the base of the salary by 3% from the beginning of the year, and an additional 2% already said when we found savings on the bulky side of the budget, aware that this is our obligation. But you can also see from this that we have not only fulfilled that obligation but we still have two months until the end of the year. That's some extra 500 million kuna. In addition, we also had certain requirements for individual specific cases, such as the LNG separation for this year of some 350 million kuna, then measures for maternity and maternity benefits of another 6 months of some 160 million kuna. Recently, we had an intervention in our national carrier Croatia Airlines system of about 150 million kuna and now, not to list some I would say less in terms of financial expression, less significant items. All that together when you add up, of course, you put pressure on your spending side to increase. However, first of all, by saving on interest again on interest most of the time, but also in some other categories of any capital investment, any current expenditure, we have led us down to the frameworks of the originally drawn limit of 11.5 billion kuna from the general sources of this rebalancing proposal will not be breached. And this is among other things one of the main messages and this rebalance of the state budget, and I will tell you very clearly and very openly, so over the past years when you look at and analyze the report of either the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund has been credit rating agencies, while in some way commending the results of a balanced budget even for the last two years and a mild surplus, the reduction of the public debt share in GDP is also apostrophe of this segment, which is that control and responsible behaviour over the budget money, so the taxpayers' money is still said not only in force but one of the main points of responsible public finances management. As far as the extra budget funds are concerned, the extra budget funds for this year have a slightly better result than originally foreseen. When you look at a total of 6 because for this year we still have 6 Croatian Waters, Roads, CERRP, HZZO, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund and the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and Deposit Insurance, we will discuss tomorrow that the proposal for the 2020 budget includes an additional 4 which, as well as a number of other extra budget users in the ESA 2010 methodology, are already in these figures. But what is important to mention, therefore, is that in these figures these six funds record a better result than what is originally envisaged, we predicted for them for this year a surplus of about a billion and 100, and according to these latest figures there is also a proposal in their corrections of the financial plans of billions and 746 million kuna. Then we have a local state that is not the subject of today's debate, whether each of the local units has its own colloquially spoken parliaments, or bodies to whom it proposes financial plans, budgets, and which decide to do so. We took as a working assumption as originally predicted 480 million kuna deficits for this year. And now that we're looking at each category, so the local state at the same level, extra budget funds 6 so from a billion to 100 surpluses per billion 746, the state budget of the original plan was a deficit of 4 billion and 200, according to this billion-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. So we're 2 billion and 900 million kunas better at this point compared to the original plan, again I repeat all of what I've mentioned so far. When you add it all together and subtract it according to the national methodology what is the subject of our conversation here in the Croatian Parliament compared to the original 3 billion 559 million kuna deficits, we in this budget rebalancing practically have a balanced budget, I would say symbolic we did not in any way target it to be, but indeed 2 million kuna surplus. So a balanced budget according to the method of methodology. When adjustments are added and all other institutions that are included in the ESA 2010 methodology are included, EUROSTAT asks us to do so, the State Statistics Institute and the CNB are those that compile data and ultimately send EUROSTAT or jointly publish, compared to the original plan for this year of €364 million or 0.3% of gross domestic product, according to this proposal, this deficit is 0.1% or 582 million kuna. So, according to the ESI, some 800 million kunas, a better result than originally planned, and I can say in this occasion in the opening statement, as I have spoken this year and over the past years, we'll do everything we can to make sure that by the end of the year that even I would say and fix it, so that again and this year we have what is being cut short, which is stealing us these years, and that's a balanced budget. In line with this, the share of public debt in GDP for this year is planned to 71.3% of this is, in fact, what we can say is that we round the four-year period for reducing the share of public debt in GDP to 13 percentage points, which I repeat once again, reclassify ourselves, classify ourselves with this budgetary policy and policy of public finances and fiscal policy at the very top of the EU countries towards the pace of reducing the share of debt in the gross domestic product. Here's just a brief note, I'm going to take this opportunity if among other things yesterday there was information about how public debt grew in one month this year. That's what I've been saying since we issued the bond in the spring, we've issued a bond in the spring to buy out a bond that comes to us in two days, a billion and a half U.S. dollars. As long as that interspace is that you have both one and the other instrument in force, your nominal debt is actually growing, but the relevant indicator is the one that will be at the end of the year, which means when the purchase of that bond comes, this projection that I have now told you 71.3 billion kuna according to our projections below 285 billion kuna will depend, of course, on the rate at the end of the year, because the public debt is kind of being viewed on 31.12 depending on what kind of exchange rate then, or dollars with this ransom, we will practically no longer have dollar bonds that are directly in dollars, we will know the exact data as regards the public debt. And as far as this second point is concerned, which is closely related to the very proposal of the state budget, that's why we've united. Therefore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2019, along with what is standardly prescribed by the total caps on borrowing on the foreign domestic market, the payment of the principal debt of extra budget beneficiaries, the most important way to reduce the amount of budget stock from 200 million to 191.3, the guaranteeed stock is increased by 700 million kuna, the annual value of new financial guarantees to EUR 2.8 billion, and what might have been said by one change in relation to previous laws on enforcement that this law establishes the allocation of funds to counties from the state budget for the settlement of obligations of hospital health institutions owned by the County, and with the aim of maintaining equal levels of health care throughout the Republic of Croatia. So, this law on the implementation of these 122 million kunas that we have found within our budget, within the health system that will be channelled according to, so far as local hospitals are concerned, in order to make a well-known state of total, achieved and unsettled obligations and generally debt to suppliers as much as possible to reduce, however, this injection, as well as some previous ones which have been and have been more substantial, does not solve the overall problem and the total outstanding liabilities in the health system, which is of course, I will not say a separate topic, is very closely linked to the budget, you also know that the health system as an extra-profit user is such that, despite the numerous interventions we have had on the receiving side of the budget, it is not entirely a problem that the cumulation of these additional commitments is not fully stopped. Here at the end of this remaining time I will just say briefly, when we all sum up what is most important and this opportunity I will thank all my fellow ministers and all the other budget users, this was not simple, let's call it, because despite these additional requirements for increasing the expenditure side we have maintained our basic principle of public finance management, which is that, despite the increase in income, we are not increasing the growth of income to channel to tax reduction and to reduce the share of public debt in GDP, that, within the limits given, we do everything in our power to redistribute or now concretely in the system of rebalancing in order to meet everything in front of us all the given budgets, priorities that we set ourselves, but also very much of the circumstances that we can't influence ourselves, and in some way this solution to us, this is the most important thing between the other countries and the most important thing we have been able to do with our own budgets, so that we can't be able to make the most of our own money, so that we can't be able to make money, so that we can't go through the money, and the money, and the money, so we can't be able to make our money, so we can't pay, we can's money, we can't the money, we can't the money, we can't the money, we can't money, we can't the money, we can't the money, we can't the money, we can't of the money, we can't of the money, we can't of the money, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, but we can't, we can't get the money, we can't get the money, we can't get the money, we can't get the money, we can't, we can't get the money, we can't pay, we can't, we can't, we can't pay, we can't get the money, we can't, we can't get the money, we can't, we can't, we't, we't, but we't, we't, we can', we can' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168218	I would like to thank Mr. Maric for the explanation of the amendments to these laws. We've got one call, dear colleague Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168219	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the proposal to amend and supplement the budget of the rebalance, the budget for this year. Ministers, everything you said, you forgot to tell the most important truth that affects both the rebalancing and everything you said, all the measures you've taken, the balance of the budget, everything you've said, the debt reduction, that would be discussed, but you've evicted the Croats and they're now paying into the budget at the time of the budget, when the billing and the payment in the budget. RH is, I don't know in this year, and in two last year, in 2018. The Republic of Croatia has come from our citizens from abroad, you know, 5% of GDP, GDP, which means you've evicted our citizens and the most educated people who send money to the Republic of Croatia, and that's the policy of the '60s, the worst policy, there's no worse, 5% of GDP -- 2.4 billion euros -- out of foreign funding was in 2018, and in 2019, since the departure of our people that you're emigrating to a bad policy has increased the budget from the meanings of the sign and payment, and it's a catastrophic policy, we're losing our people, labour force, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty, last year 11 000 people were given a working license to the Republic of Croatia, now over 60, 70 in this year alone, while our people are moving and 5% of GDP, the biggest item in the GDP is our citizens from abroad, so the most important issue to you and to you's reputation this year. Signs and that you boast of balancing the budget [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168220	Do we have any more demands? Dear fellow Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168221	Dear Ministers, Honorable Vice-President of HS Mr. Brkic, on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, we are looking for a 10-minute break to consult and to try to calculate what happened to the famous foreign debt, here Mr. Bulj was just talking about some debts that have been accumulated there since the 1970s, and then, last century, we remember very well that the former state whose part was, in 1980, the Republic of Croatia was in debt of $20 billion, and then there in '86. It was 26 billion dollars, so the whole of the former Yugoslavia, and then in the 1990s, that debt was $20 billion just for the Republic of Croatia, and 30, and 50, and 70, and then 80 and then at some point a few years ago, the amount of the total debt of the Republic of Croatia stopped talking. We are interested in the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats does this mean that Mr. Marić's ceilings have been breached and that the debt is so large, enormous, that you as an accountant no longer dare say that number?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168222	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beljak. Since there are no further requests, I'm setting a recess until 11 o'clock...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168223	I answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168224	...excuse my colleague, Glasnović, here's your colleague, Glasnović. Did you answer the line or take a break? [[Clip incursion: For replica, the replica appeared]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168225	Good break, al replica.../Laughter/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168226	Do you want a break or a replica of your colleagues?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168227	Stanku, for now, take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168228	Then explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168229	There's going to be a break, this is, you have lies, bigger lies and statistics, this is just a pile, a patching of flat tires on the truck, and when the last one pops, we're going to go to Sahara Africa on these pension and health systems. I'm looking for a break to talk about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168230	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. I'm setting a break until 11 o'clock and 30 minutes. It's 11:00.17. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to the replicas of the minister's presentation. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168232	Thank you very much. Minister, as I said at the break, we're talking about rebalancing, you're boasting about balancing the budget. No country in the EU or Europe, nor Ireland when the largest emigration was made was 5% of its population. 5%, now that you've moved the Croats, keep moving out. So last year, in Croatia, 5% of GDP was based on signs of our payments to our people from abroad. Our people from Slavonia, who were to work fields, went to Ireland, which never, when most evicted, was not 5% of GDP, 2.4 billion euros or 18 billion kuna, comes into the budget. in Croatia, and of course it comes later and through VAT and rest in the budget, means the economy in ruins, agriculture in ruins, health in ruins, school in ruins and you boast of the balanced budget. What if it wasn't for these 18 billion? In Slovenia, only 1% of the evidence is from other countries What if it wasn't for these clues? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168233	Dear fellow Bull. Answer, Minister Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168234	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I'm just fulfilling my legal obligation in the Budget Law says that as Minister of Finance I owe you an HS to come and present the budget, budget changes, budget implementation, that's what I'm doing. In accordance with the Budget Law, it says what figures, reports I have to submit to you as agents, which is what I am doing. So there's no... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168235	Comrade Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168236	A little bit now through this replica you've corrected in relation to that request for a break because at first you said it was going directly into the budget. Signs that our citizens... just like that, if you normally get to spending, but you said come directly into the budget because you said you wouldn't be balanced budget. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, the question of demographics and emigration, I'd say is just going beyond the discussion of a one-year budget like this, it's a broader effect and I think we'd all be much happier and more satisfied that the smaller phenomenon was not just the past but today, but we're looking at the perspective of the budget base, so these figures that I've presented to you, these are the figures that we're bound to do. Legally. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168237	A respected fellow minister. Mr. Bully, I beg you nicely, don't come in and interrupt the minister while he's talking. You were right about the replica, and then you said what you had to say. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We can hear thousands of teachers and teachers in the education system who are currently protesting in front of the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament. My question to you is where you managed to find the money and from which you will rebalance 120 million kunas that you offer to the education system in the Government's offer of 2% increased coefficients in 2020 or why there is no 400 million kuna or little more than they asked for, and on the other hand you buy APIS from the City of Zagreb for 280 million kuna, a company that has an annual profit of 4.5 million kuna, you pay 280 million kuna. Is that how you buy Mr. Bandic's coalition and arms in HS? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168239	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168240	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad that this question comes from right out of you, you were, as well as I remember, one of those who raised his hand to cut salaries just like those outside protesting. ... Well, you were part of the government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You didn't raise your hand? Then I missed something, but we'll check it out, it's easy to check anyway. The government that has reduced the coefficients and wages, on the other hand, you have a government that increases with this proposal, and in the budget tomorrow we will discuss, the increase in salaries of 18.3% without tax changes, so the increase in the base on several occasions, and as far as your specific question is concerned for next year, these 2+2+2% are foreseen in the budget as items, these additional 120 million kunas that our calculation, I'll just explain, I don't have time, so if this is not done, it's not foreseen in the state budget for 2020, as there was no additional 2% for this year in the redistribution, we've set those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168241	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168242	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am pleased to see that income increases, of course everyone expects in that area that refers to him as an increase. What we are primarily concerned with when we look at the problems that have been recently referred to the question of health care. I see that 122 million kunas are foreseen, one direct question, is 122 million kunas of help to resuscitate health facilities really enough? If we're talking about billions, I think that could have been a lot more, that's one of the key priorities. Or if we look at agriculture, why, if the funds have already been found for direct payments are not guaranteed to increase the national share by getting close to that limit of 3.2 billion, we are still at 2.9, so Croatia has not secured its share of the 300 million we could, especially now that we have so much higher income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168243	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168244	Thank you very much. Well, as I said in the opening statement, these 122 million kunas are what we can do in the current budgets and restrictions at the moment, but I also made it very clear that we do not expect in any way that such an injection was in the previous years of these injections, and many more will not solve the problem of health, obligations, debts and also the outstanding ones that are also increasing at the monthly level. I'll remind you in 2017 a billion and a half were a direct donation without an increase in public debt. In 2018, we have an additional 500 million on top of what is already being paid and since 1.1. this year, the full contribution to health insurance has been increased by 1%. According to our original calculations, it was at a billion-and-a-half level, it would be more for the health care system. And we've said very clearly many times, apparently, only with the intrusion of the income side of the budget problems cannot be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168245	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168246	Mr. Secretary, I don't know, I'm listening to this, but how are you going to fill a budget with this kind of economy? The gray economy at Zimbabwe level, not paying taxes. How many taxes aren't paid? Are you even talking to Mr. Horvat to bring this together? You've got 1.2 men on the job and 1 is retired. How are you gonna fill that out? Where are your greenfield investments? It's just a smoke screen. You know, and now I'm going to tell you, you may have economists from the former state because that's where the people who praise the failed experiment of the former Yugoslavia sit. Did you finish your school in the former Yugoslavia economists? If that's the case, we're really gonna get in here. This all sounds like a centralized economy and a five-year plan to me. Ours, look at our competitiveness, we're at a level out there somewhere I'd say, once again, former Rhodesia, South Africa. How are you going to fill that budget? You must be a magician. That's one quick question and please answer. And how many pensions do we pay in Serbia? Tens of thousands of pensions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168247	I thank my colleague Glasnović. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168248	Thank you very much. Well, part of your replica, or part of the exposure, can agree, of course, very clearly and we are aware that the economy and the taxpayers are the ones who contribute to filling the state budget. So without economy, economic activities and investments, employment and wages, there is no revenue from the state budget either. So we agree on that. Of course, we can always talk about how and how to further stimulate this economic activity. And I personally came to you on several occasions, presented proposals for individual measures, primarily tax discharges, but also some and not tax and administrative ones that should make it easier for entrepreneurs and, in general, the economy and citizens to live, and then, among other things, to collect certain benefits in terms of overall economic activity. The part about these international comparisons, I did not really read those reports where we are in this comparison with those countries that you state with due respect for them. I think we have a very much comparable analysis where we can compare in an adequate way and argue with other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168249	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic answered the question. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168250	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Independent Youth List because after this statement by the minister where he himself has said that he does not believe that the support he has given through the increase in the rate of separation for health insurance, through direct support that goes towards the resolution of health institutions, will then be asked the question if the Deputy Prime Minister does not believe in the measures of the Government that he will resolve the issue then we are asking the question of how we will resolve health care by increasing all health insurance allocations so that it can be covered. I mean, we're expecting previous debts right now. Someone needs to be resolved. Do we all need to separate from our own pocket a certain amount so that once we bring it down to zero, or we need to set priorities in the state budget and say let's take it to that zero and in the meantime what is the responsibility of both the Government and you ministers as vice president is to implement all the major reforms. It's not enough to say, this year we've increased the allocations for health care, we're going to give 122 million kuna and then say I don't believe that's going to solve the health problem. And what do we believe? What policy will we trust if I am a minister if I don't believe in the politics of my own government because so far, this policy has been that the whole time there is a crisis in the health system is being created, that we have hospital blockades, that we are here discussing the confidence of Minister Kujundzic, whom the prime minister defends and thinks that everything is okay, and in the end we have a government representative who says I don't believe that. I think we, as responsible politicians, must ask a question which is a policy in the sphere of the health of this government that we should believe in. I mean, we can't, so why are we raising our funds here for 122 million kunas? Then we should put a zero if we can't believe that's the way to resuscitate the health care. Then let's not go like that, then let's go maybe to the other side, maybe there was an initiative to change ministers a better way, so maybe someone would find ways for the vice president to believe in how to solve health problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168251	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. Since there are no other requirements, I'm setting a 12.00 break when we continue our work. It's 11.4.46 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168252	We're going back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] The replica now has Mr. Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you've been talking about billions I'm going to say a few words about millions, I'm commending and it's good that with the rebalancing, there's an increased position for animal health care by over 36 million that's been spent on categorizing pig's households, and it's a good thing about biosecurity because every good thing that's made about African swine fever to prevent it can't be measured by disease if it shows up. In addition to categorisation, the status of a country free of infectious diseases will also be resolved, so that our cattle farmers can export, for example, pigs to Turkey, cattle to Turkey or pigs to China. With this opening of the market, we would permanently solve the problem of our cattlemen, and more importantly have status, stable status for the flow of goods and goods because of our processing industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168254	Answer. There's no answer. Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168255	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, so I can start talking to you. The reply with the claim that I do not know the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has tasked Croatia with an additional 14 billion kuna because it has so grown public debt, but I will not deal with it but I have one question for you. So, I consider you as the responsible finance minister actually using the data i.e. GDP data, i.e. from the GDP component when you plan and rebalance the budget and when you plan a new budget. You know what an implicit deflator is, I assume you know the ratio of nominal and real GDP. Now, what I'm curious about is whether you noticed a report from the State Statistics Institute published by one of the data on the GDP components on its own page, and other data was published by a completely different person on EUROSTAT data. So let's say that gross fixed capital investments are a reduction from 4.1 to 0.8, which is actually saying that EU funds are not being used well. Now it's me. What do you plan the budget on? [[Intruder: Time.]] You can plan it by nominate, but as a good finance minister, you should actually plan it at real GDP rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168256	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168257	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we are very simple, so we have as much as you with official data from the RS statistical offices. Both are practically independent and the State Statistics Institute and the CNB as well as some other data sources, but they are primarily those data that we use, whether we talk about GDP there is then the State Statistics Institute, whether it is some disproportionate to publishing data on EUROSTAT, which is published in Croatia, the addresses are not. I don't really know what you're talking about. So we're talking about this officially published data that we're using in our projection analyses, as well as the structure of GDP, and the element that you're talking about as a deflator as some kind of proxy that we're using in the correction or in the planning of these nominal categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168258	The next replica has Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168259	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I am sure that the biggest headaches in the government are given to you by the Minister of Health who has done nothing to ensure the rational and effective spending of the funds available to him before these funds are more than ever in history. Debts grow every month to around 130 million kunas. Probably because he is so failed in the rational capacity of the means he does not even fight enough to provide health care with the means that the law belongs to him. So, until when do you intend to avoid the government's legal obligation to base Articles 72 and 82. Mandatory health insurance law and Article 14. The supplemental insurance law transfers all assets to HZZO that belong to it. So in this rebalancing, you have not secured more than 1.6 billion, and the estimates are that this amount is 4.2 billion kuna. Therefore, the state does not fulfil its legal obligations to the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168260	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168261	Thank you very much, thank you very much for this question because every time we open that topic, you give me an opportunity not only to present it to everyone and say what is well known, but it is often forgotten. Articles 14, 72 and 82, which you well quoted, we would like to say in that presentation, but in the full explanation of why HZO is excluded from the State Treasury system was very clearly apostrophealed that it will be revised. So that, among other things, is what we call a controversial item, 32 percent of the excise duty on tobacco and tobacco processing. And we've been communicating very clearly since the beginning, as the Ministry of Finance suggested in the Government, of course the government has accepted it and referred to the Croatian Parliament a proposal to increase the health contribution by 1 percentage point, but also without of course we now have something special to do but with some perspective to finally come to this revision because it is absurd for me to have one existing tax form be directly bound in another law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168262	Mrs. Voter, yes, I saw, thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Mrs. Voter has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Please grant a break on behalf of the SDP Club in order to consult among other things and about this agenda point. In fact, at Mark's square at this point, it doesn't stop what's being said as picturesque as a match, it's all a lot of angry, disappointed and humiliated teachers and teachers that this government doesn't hear about. There's no way he's giving them back a little bit of dignity through pay hikes and meeting their demands. He says it is not negotiating the coefficients, and last year the coefficients for all the employees in diplomacy were increased, last year the coefficients for all employees in the social care system were increased, this year's salaries for healthcare workers were increased. I find it necessary to raise salaries both in health care and in social care but can someone explain to me why there are health workers and social care employees and there are no employees in education? Somebody explain that list of priorities to me, why does Bandic's Zagreb APIS have no hands for primary school employees because they buy to vote in the state budget? Well, you see, that's the wrong way. Return students to classrooms, return teachers and teachers to classrooms and chambers, only one Andrej Plenkovic can do so. How? To raise salaries to employees and primary and secondary schools and give them back their dignity. Do not allow employees in primary and secondary schools to continue to be the most underpaid highly educated people in the system of public administration. Apple once again, a crumb of reason and goodwill, and we return the students to school benches, teachers and teachers in classrooms, not on the streets as they are unfortunately forced to fight for their dignity today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168264	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club so that once again at the club, we can consider all the hypocrisy about it and bidding when someone's looking for something. So when in 2012, practically below the grain, under cover of darkness, the coefficients were reduced, then these same people were silent. Today, when you look at the proposal for budget rebalance and budget 2016, you will see that the weight of the funds has been increased by salary by 3.9 billion kuna or, if you are going to make a percentage, the weight of the salary funds has increased by 15%. So this government is looking for a way of sustainable, long-term sustainability that those who work for the state, be adequately paid, and also, we are looking for a model of wages and rewards to pay and reward those who work and not to pay for belonging to a particular formation. The third thing, what is very important and will talk about both my colleagues and I, about the budget, so everyone had a chance in the mandate to act as authorities to do something, to establish a system, however it is not. However, those who took away their wages, who reduced their wages, and this is not the first time, the same story happened in 2003 in 2004, as soon as a strike, ran and supported him. So how can it be? So when I'm in power, I have 1001 reasons to reduce your coefficients and when I come to power, then it would be one way or another. Look how the SDP colleagues laugh sweetly, they find it interesting, but they have reduced the coefficients and we as a club just have to say that because look, over the past 3 years, 4 years Look, buddy, this is amazing. [[Please, please, please.]] We keep quiet while the SDP gentlemen talk, they wouldn't even let us talk in the Parliament anymore. [[Molly, it's time, you know.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168266	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. Before I give permission to take a break, Mr. Maras asked him to take the Rules of Procedure, an article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168267	Although your colleague, Bukarica, has whispered to you that I already have one warning, to suggest that you give me another warning, I must respond and say it's an art. 248th Infringement [[Subject Radin: Article, article, article.]] A fellow Shuker said he wanted to consult about hypocrisy, we don't have it on the agenda, so we don't have it on the agenda and the break shouldn't be approved, I just want to make it right and warn you not to give a break to the people who robbed Croatia with Sanader headed to complain to us who pulled Croatia out, who brought it on the right track and to complain to us, it's a shame Mr Schuker. [[/Intruder Radin: 248.]] Say hello to Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168268	Thank you. Time's up. I'll read the article. 248. During the meeting of the Assembly, a representative of the club of representatives may request a recess for the meeting of the club of representatives once during the day. The representative of the club of representatives is obliged to state the reasons why he is seeking a break and a proposal for the length of its duration in the exhibition for no longer than 2 minutes. The chairman will approve a break with the fact that the break cannot determine a time of less than 10 minutes or more than 30 minutes, Mr Maras, you have a second warning. Here you go. Before, before, I'm sorry, before... [[Intruder Shucker: A fellow Maras...]] No, no, no, I don't want to take your word for it, Mr. Jovanovic. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Jovanovic, I don't want to take your word for it, Mr. Jovanovic. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168269	Art. In 238, therefore, my colleague Schuker sought some kind of break based on secret agreements and the removal of the coefficients under cover of the night, so it was a complete untrue, it was a complete lie, no coefficients were abolished, but it was in accordance with the law, since the regulation based on which these coefficients existed had ceased to apply in 2005. Afterwards, the coefficients were increased in 2014 when order was finally introduced after the robbery conducted by the HDZ in the term of office of Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168270	Thank you very much. Despite cross-infringements of the Rules of Procedure, I determine a break of 10 minutes...... No, no, I'm fixing a break, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, you'll get a warning, Mr. Shuker, you'll get a warning. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, I'm done. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Almost, almost, almost with injuries to the Rules of Procedure, 12 and 18,... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] 12 and 35, you can fight now, but please turn off your tone. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Specially enabled.]] [[MEETING IN 12.18 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.37 HOURS]] Here you go, Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168272	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you've exposed this rebalancing to us here in a pretty good mood, so you can see that you're satisfied. However, I believe that when we talk about extra budget funds that we should never be satisfied at all, that here is concrete, the Environmental Protection Fund, so their statistics are devastating, let's say 400 million kunas unrealised for infrastructure that allows for the reform of the municipal system in the circular economy for which we have commitments, as well as 50 million kunas unrealised to raise the degree of sustainability in energy, so these are very serious things, so I'm wondering if you addressed that responsibility because these are the issues that we will be carrying in the coming years all these consequences?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168273	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168274	Thank you very much. Well, a good topic in any case is, in general, that the debate here is not just a small one, it contributes significantly to the overall budget of the general state, and I certainly think that every minister of finance, puts and apostrophes them, because ultimately they affect the overall result, each of them is distributed somewhere in some kind of resolution, I mean, in particular, this Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund this year, according to these figures or according to the rebalancing proposal, even having a better result than the original planned, we have a lot of challenges and for the next year, but in no case should reduce the control system, in the final and responsible behaviours as well as any budgetary user, that prefix does not mean a lot of things and there are, of course, which are understated by the fiscal ones, responsibilities. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168275	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168276	Here, thank you very much. Dear Ministers, so here is the Republic of Croatia, and during this year, many natural disasters have been hit by several counties, several counties have declared a natural disaster, damages are being taken in millions of kunas, and I was alone in the city of Pregrading a witness of it, people have remained literally without their roof over their heads and what I expected in this rebalancing budget to do what happened last year, and I think that last year too, and that this really minimum amount, we all agreed here, rises up not some adequate level, so to a level of at least 100 million kuna, which is why I'm very sad that it didn't happen because we have also the damages of natural disasters from the past years that are being measured in billions, no one expects that all of course will be damaged, but some minimum of this country was to do so, and this amount is certainly not worth the honoring that it. I only have one last technical note, if we've already changed The law on natural disasters, if we have the State Commission for Natural Accidents, then change in the budget, you still have damages from natural disasters. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168277	Mr. Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168278	Well, the problem of elemental disasters is well known to you, as well as most of you, if not to all the representatives, who are bodies and what is the structure, and who is some of this vertical one that goes by, and we know, not once, not for one year, that the damage reported and, in general, what is done through these bodies is, far more than any of those budgetary possibilities, over the past years have been ensured depending on the circumstances of some additional means if there is need and when there is an additional need of course for us, you know, and ourselves, to provide in different ways as we have done, so I wouldn't be making any big conclusions here now, but here, when you and two other colleagues from the club just when you add up, we're talking about health, about wages, elementary disasters, if it's what we're always having challenges, how all of our expensive things in terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168279	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168280	Thank you. Dear Minister, you've given good symptoms in your presentation, it may take, in this debate, something about diagnosis, and when it's gonna be therapy, we'll see. So, growth, GDP growth is solely based on growth in consumption, something on investment, general government investment, you have noted that unfortunately there are fewer private sector investments and that these two growths are always followed by import growth, why so, we can say something about this in the debate, on the other hand, the growth of wages that are currently going to the hand of consumption growth and the increase in minimum wages, does not monitor productivity growth, and that is one of the vicious circles that we are now in. As you come out of that circle, it's, it's a key question, the budget itself is like that, he's a bit of a wrinkle, and just so we don't get in danger of talking today and tomorrow about the eternal question of what an older chick or egg is, and at the end of the day to figure out that no one has fed the chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168281	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168282	Dear Representative, I think you really have a question and a replica in general, I can hardly answer that in 60 seconds, and I hope that in the context of an individual debate, and tomorrow, when we talk about the budget, we can touch that subject again, so in a good way, I agree with what you said, and this segment that we're talking about now, it's very closely tied up and, at the moment, it's difficult to measure the productivity of the public and state sector, much harder than in the private sector, but also to do so. But here's a good apostrophe, certain segments of our real sector, the private sector, actually, pay growth, well you said most of it was driven by a lack of labour and not by one that should be driven by productivity growth. So there's something I should say in that normative part of a system like that. That's the same thing when we talk about the structure of GDP, but I say it's a short time to really count everything, so I hope we continue the discussion on that topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168283	- Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168284	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I may continue where my colleague left off so you may have another minute. In your presentation, you said that one of the key challenges is the fact that you went with several rounds of law to reduce the tax burden. The challenge is to strengthen the economy in view of the fact that increased personal consumption but stronger and imports, which says that increased personal consumption did not result in the development of the economy and that increased personal consumption is not seen through some activities that were in the economy. We had opportunities to both you and I and hear and read in the media employers' associations to warn about some facts. I'm wondering if in this minute, you can be the only solution or one key topic that would respond to that challenge that you've identified as a challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168285	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168286	Thank you very much. Well, here's the question, as well as the previous issue, extremely in place because it's actually not a one-year budget or a three-year-old, it's a question much, much wider than that. So when we speak, here in this particular case of import dependence, only in which way or principally where that import dependence would reduce from one side and strengthen and some domestic component, not that we are now advocating closure, we are an open economy, we are part of the internal market, but through strengthening the domestic component, I will repeat the production, export-oriented but on the other hand and raising awareness about the integration of certain industries and individual sectors. For 30 years, we've been talking about blue and green Croatia, about connecting this species or that kind of tourism, we're talking about. But that's where you need to make the steps. And there are those entrepreneurs who do it, and I think it's an appropriate way to do it, and it's something that needs to be done, but it has to be given to others. And just the final thought, all those tax changes, many times I say, where I'm lucky that all the solutions to our problems are just hiding there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168287	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Greek's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can't not go back to this subject of our teacher, professor, teacher for the simple reason why all the time I'd say the floors can say that our government was cutting wages and that this one is increasing. Of course you always forget that most important sentence, what time it was then and what today is. So it was a time of crisis, the legacy of one of the previous HDZ government. I'm not saying it was her fault, but the GDP fell 10%, the budget was in a major crisis. Thus, wages could not be raised at that time and unfortunately they had to be saved on salaries. We were able to reverse it at the time of the term of office and now how today to explain to the people who are now protesting that after 3.1 billion increases in tax revenues there are no 400 million for them. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168289	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168290	Thank you very much. Your Honorary, they're not plantings, they're facts, it's very clear and easily verifiable and I won't be too referenced to the past but just before your colleague said that he didn't vote for it, I checked it out, he was in the cabinet session, now whether he raised or didn't raise his hand, then you need to clarify it, now it's already what we say the paces and pass past times. So whether or not there's money, I'll repeat, I don't know which times 2017. 2+2+2, 2018 and 2019 respectively. 3+2 and now the proposal for an additional 2+2+2. When you translate it all together into language it's 18.3% higher pay either the base or whatever, in this particular case, the base of higher pay. So the money was found as much as it could. Tomorrow you will see in the draft budget for next year billions and 700 million kuna with pensions, the biggest increase, so there is no more thesis about it something is in the final, in the last place of some list of priorities, very clearly seen from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168291	Thank you, too. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168292	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this rebalancing item for mountain-mounted areas is 15% or more accurate from 40 to 34 million kuna. This year, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas entered into force and until 1.4, the strategy for the development of mountainous areas was to be adopted, which should then have laid down the measures and benefits that those areas would have. That hasn't been brought in to this day. So we don't have strategies, we don't have measures, we don't have anything in that law, we just have a framework as the colleagues said when they adopted it. So I'm interested in what this 34 million kuna is even going to be, what they were spent on when they stayed here or what they would be spent on because there's no indication at all that a strategy will be put in place by 1.1 million kunas, i.e. to prescribe measures and benefits to which these money should then be spent, and the item itself I'm going to talk about tomorrow at the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168293	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168294	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and on the matter and here I can say for a little help to me as Minister of Finance because, as a general rule, here you have confirmed very well on this segment. When we talk about a problem from a segment, then we only see the solution to this issue in some additional financial means. Just before I said, your colleague, not yours but from another club deliberately paraphrased a little in the wrong way, my response to the health issue, now here we are talking about mountain-mounted areas. So it is necessary to regulate certain things and to redefine what is actually wanted functionally and then fiscally, in general always before or in some way going as a leader, these funds will be I am sure spent in an adequate way for mountainous and mountainous areas, for a number of years they have been recognised both in tax legislation now and across this expenditure side of the budget which I think is much more just and that this should be defined and redefined in one normal way which is expected of them all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168295	Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, I know about the EU funds that this is not your particular area, but I am just curious about how much the execution is about the EU funds now with 30.10 and how much the share of the Pelješko Bridge is, if you may have that information, how much the share of the Peljega Bridge is in this year, through these EU funds that are drawn from that amount that you're likely to tell me today is around 30.10. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168297	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168298	Thank you very much. Here, as regards the implementation of European aid until yesterday, the total funds are at a level or aid from abroad but specifically from European funds means at a level of 64.7% of the plan or 43.5% higher than the same period of the previous year. This is the aggregated data regarding European funds you know for yourself how much they blend in depending on the verification and verification by themselves, so it's hard to single out that data on your own right now. However, the subject remains, as he was saying at the outset. So this is how you see 43.5% of the growth rate, each year we record these two-digit growth rates, but we still haven't reached those levels where we would characterize as a normal rate of absorption, which is more now very current talks, negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. And here we have very clearly articulated our views on the food in the next period of this, and we have to take care of it, or take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168299	Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168300	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, I have carefully monitored your rebalancing exposure, but here, given the positive developments in the domestic economy, which, in fact, was GDP in the first half of 2019, recorded a growth of 3.1% and thus increased income, I have looked at some items. Two are actually interesting to me, the first increase in gambling revenues of about 3 million kunas, given the government's regulation on the distribution of these funds, I think it would be good to think about what we've been saying, and that's to help Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And the second thing is the return of funds in the child's allowance item to the state budget, it's with the Ministry of Labour and Pension Systems. I think we should consider bringing here the law, amendments and additions to the Children's Extras Act and allowing them to conclude that even Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the residence of their children, can also exercise the right to a child's allowance. I think we should think about it now, but also in the next 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168301	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168302	Thank you very much, I think of the replica and above all on the recommendation, you know that precisely from these revenues from games to happiness that famous regulation that we know well who then defines this distribution of funds, either for the segment of which you speak different aspects and projects of assistance to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but of course there are also children with special needs, persons with disabilities, there are parts and segments of social care, these are also civil society associations and I have to absorb the most significant part in that distribution going for sport, so, next year, the Olympic year a whole series of our athletes today are trying to qualify for this great competition. So, I always say again as well as the total budget according to some possibilities, it's good that this total mass, the quantum, is growing. As far as the distribution itself is concerned, we are always discussing it in parallel with this budget, or by the end of the year, I believe that we will also adopt a new regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168303	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168304	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your presentation, Mr Minister, you also mentioned the importance of foreign aid or EU funds, and you said that it was reduced by almost 2 billion more than 12% because we obviously do not have enough administrative capacity to realise everything that is planned. I am pleased that you have warned this and that these administrative capacities are missing and that you should warn other ministries not to build barriers for entrepreneurs and family farms in the preparation of the competition, and that because of our savings, we will not use the funds. This happened this year and in the Ministry of Agriculture through rural development programmes, out of these 2 billion, 500 million kuna is a reduction in the implementation of the rural development programme because the local self-government units and the OPG allegedly had no capacity to attract and complete the processes, and you have abolished the Agricultural Land Agency, the advisory service, and there is no savings. I've never heard what savings are for that, and we see the money we didn't withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168305	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168306	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, so I didn't mention the administrative capacities even personally I think we built them in a good way, they were in that initial phase after accession, the initial phase of setting up all these structures, I think we've done them in an adequate way, now we can even talk about that in some things we went a little too far, so we went very quickly and we had to move in terms of some rationalization of certain agencies that they don't overlap and don't bother each other. My message before and the point was, in fact, among other things, the overall procedure, has now shown itself on several individual perhaps more sound cases, and then we can talk about many other cases that may not be so sound, that the procedures are further complicated with the tender documentation, with complaints, you have seen, therefore, ourselves according to our Public Procurement Act, which is evident at this time, anyone can complain about anything and ultimately slow the whole process, and then we have in some way subcontractivity from what is originally planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168307	Thank you, too. Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168308	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, since it seems like it's become an entrenched rule in this high house that what was said when you didn't feel like it, what you did didn't do, so I'd ask you to apostrophe some things. Practically since HDZ took over in this way or in that way in these last two mandates, how many mass pay funds have gone, so from 2016 when it was 25.8 billion to 29.7 billion as proposed by this budget rebalance or, if we want, it's an increase of 15.1%. Look at the size of economic growth in that time period, it was less by 3.4% points, so the government was strained to make up for what some took. And about what and how it was, I would just like to say that in 2011, the economic downturn was 0.2%, and in 2012, when some took over, it was 2.2%. So much for success.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168309	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168310	Thank you, well-respected replicator, or commentary and question. As a matter of fact, the mass of salaries is little to us here in a justified way the State Audit Office in the draft budget for the following year has set up a comparison because we will have to advertise certain salaries for teachers in primary and secondary school, so it will not be possible to compare fully. But let's say for the next year that amount goes up to over 33 billion kunas, so that's facts, that's numbers, that's not what some call boasting. So it's my job to report numbers here and talk about them as such very clearly and explicitly. I'll do it again, so we're talking about a strong two-digit growth of over 18%, 18.3% of the pay base. You know, in parallel with this, that, in accordance with some other acts, we have an increase of 0.5% each year as regards years of internships as well as a whole series of other things that exist in the system, which we are all appealing and we need to talk about putting on the table in an argument... and redesign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168311	Thank you. Mrs. Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168312	Thank you. The respected ministers of the Finance Committee yesterday were very argumentatively able to adopt this rebalancing proposal because when we return to 2018 when a new cycle of tax reform was passed, we now see in this rebalancing, however, clear arguments that those effects we expected from tax reform were not too high at all, I would dare say even that they were conservative. We can therefore conclude that we have both income growth and deficit reduction and this leads us to a balanced budget. And given that today in the debate, we also mentioned some incomes that are not at all the subject of this rebalancing, I would like to make it clear that this year we also record the largest number of employees of independence. It means that despite the reduction in income tax, that income remains at the same level, and that figure itself, I think, is important and should be highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168313	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168314	Thank you very much. This last part that you said, so behind all these numbers that we're talking about macroeconomically, segment one or the one, the budget, I'd say, the thing comes down to two key indicators, that's employment, so the number of employees and the other is wages, so the standard of living, so behind all of this is behind all of these numbers. Why are we apostrophe of GDP? Well, because it's as a total figure the most important and best reflected the situation in the economy and some trends. But also if we want more employment, bigger salaries can't happen on their own without this growth in employment. So on that side, I absolutely not only understand what you're saying, but I also support it, and I also need to put an emphasis on it. And as for tax discharges, it has already been shown in several circles that each tax reduction and discharge gives a certain impulse. We can always discuss and we'll talk next week and there will certainly be different comments whether here or there, but I speak as long as we discuss and we have proposals on the discharge table that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168315	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168316	So, I'd like the minister to explain one thing to me here. It's really not clear to me that I'm not an economist, but I don't think it's clear to Croatian citizens either. You often mention the surplus, but as far as I can see, it's not about the surplus but it's about a slightly smaller deficit, so there's one deficit planned, so it's a deficit in the budget, so it's slightly smaller than expected, and then the term surplus is used. Tell me am I right now, confirm this to me or give me your explanation? Did we really make more money than we spent or are we just a little less in debt than we thought we'd be in debt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168317	Thanks for asking. Good to you but then to the public if someone thinks it's not completely clear and exact. Therefore, the surplus or deficit is the accounting category that collects income and reduces for expenditure. If the revenues are higher than the expenditure surplus, if the revenues are less than the expenditure, then the deficit is. The past two years have been verified by EUROSTAT in the general government's budget when all together is summed up and consolidated by the state budget, extra budget funds, local self-government and some of the other institutions that EUROSTAT has calculated inside us, says a surplus has been achieved in terms of more income. I'm not going to use this term earned but incomed rather than spent. In any case, what is important for the Croatian public to say so public finances and the budget are now functioning on the principle of balance, there are no pressures on additional debt growth, borrowing for some future generations as we like to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168318	Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168319	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister. I would just like to point out once again, so VAT revenues are growing 2.2 billion kuna, I think it's a good indicator of the situation in the economy, especially after we've reduced the burden above all and on fresh meat, vegetables, fruit, and even on drugs even at that 5% rate, and we've got more money. What I'm curious about is, is this where we see that there are growing guarantees for the Oil and that there are growing guarantees for guarantees and loans, and I'm curious what about the proceeds from the sale of that famous Jaruzal that went on auction? Where is it in the budget and how will it reflect this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168321	Thank you very much. Here's the thing about the protested guarantees is the key difference in this to say again, we don't confuse the additional public and citizens, but to clarify, we have a national methodology and we have this European methodology. The European methodology in this regard, in particular in the case of the Oilic, I would say more justly looking at it, which says if you paid by guarantees for someone like the Oily Group where it is actually very unlikely that you will be charged out of it despite all the insurance instruments, you practically immediately book it in the overall result. Well, you remember that everything we protested last year, 2.5 billion immediately came to fruition last year, yet the surplus has been achieved, both these billions and 900, this year it went in, but according to the national methodology and the guarantees paid and charged by the activated insurance instruments, it's Colloquial below the line. So, according to the last thing we have on the auction, that ship was sold for about 75% as it's already going in order in terms of the law, one part of that funding will be admitted to the state budget, I hope by the end of the year, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168322	Thank you. And in the end, ma'am. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168323	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Well, it is important once again to point out what you have repeatedly said that in 2017, the provisions of collective agreements were actually respected where everything that was actually settled in that previous period was taken away and 3 + 2% was added in this year. That's over 500 million funding from this year and it's also important to say that over 850 million kunas are settled for pensions. So these are some fixed costs that don't go away at this point, we paid them once and they're no longer, they're embedded further into all the budgets and all of the future actually burdens again a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168325	Thank you very much, counselor. Well, I mean, not only did you hit the subject, but I would say some of the nature of that topic. So, basically we say and so it is, so it's legitimate for everyone to express their own dissatisfaction and normally when we expect and when we look at some kind of election cycle, that now at this time it's perhaps the best time, right, so we have the presidential elections ahead of us, after that parliamentary elections. However, I will return to the subject as we talked about tax evasion, not waiting for the last year of the mandate to go into some tax charge, so it did not start to correct the salary hike at the end of the term but at the very beginning. And we made it very clear and sat down with representatives of the union central, state and public services, as a rule with the state we have all these agreements and signed, with the public were different situations of calming down, but that is kind of the main message. From day one, we have very clearly recognised that it is necessary after a long series of years when wages have been reduced or kept to levels, to move and to increase but not to change our overall strategy that we have to redesign the wage policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168326	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas, let's get started now. Oh, yeah, would anyone like to take a word on behalf of the board? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, I don't. Let's start a club debate, the first one's a GLASs representative club, Mrs. GLASs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168327	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, obviously the committees are over when you were able to join, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to rebalance the budget presented to us by the minister and when you listen to the minister and all together, presented in a way that could be concluded that roses and honey and milk have been booming lately. The only problem is that I'm paraphrasing the President of the Republic like that, but it hasn't become too much of a big deal about the lives of the citizens. This is, of course, understandable and should be seen in this context with the economic growth that was projected by 2.9% and then this modest forecasting of rebalancing is reduced, we cannot expect people to feel real change. What I stress every time is that the Minister of Finance has not yet been a draft of the law, there has been nothing yet that you have not been there, so everything that comes from your portfolio, you are here, you are absolutely from the pay phone, you are sovereignly talking about the problem, and we need to say it, and you are also defending everything that you have predicted and done. So we can really convince ourselves that growth in consumption is a good thing that shows citizens optimism, as well as good things and higher incomes than taxes. But let's see a little bit of what's underneath it all together. So recently, ten years ago, we've called some things a problem, a problem, now that we're talking about, we're talking about challenges. What needs to be said clearly is increased consumption of citizens, but imports are also increased or better said, export growth has slowed down for the second year in a row which is simply not good. So, if we want to simplify it to the end, this increased consumption that the citizens recognized or indeed did, it results in imports of some other products and some other countries will have certain benefits. We in GLAS do not think that Croatia should be a closed country, we do not think that we should limit ourselves and say in a way that we need a complete strategy to develop the economy because it is a stage to define it in a way that we base it on exclusively domestic production, but what we need to recognize and that is that at a time when we are relatively well and by some other indicators, we have managed to increase domestic production or we have failed to do what it took and that is the growth of the economy, and it will simply be in some coming years, I do not want to be an evil prophet, I just read what documents we get, everyone is kind of shy or less shyly preparing for some bad years. I'm afraid we're acting like it won't be. One of the things that deserves to be particularly apostropheed from this pay phone, which is the reality of usability, i.e. better said inability to the EU funds. What's this about? So, the full mouth of everyone is about how we sign contracts, how certain programs go, how individual projects go. Great. But let's see what their real realization is, and that's where we have the problem. And we need to look at this problem really realistically and see why that is. We have countless examples. We have an example of one, so one investor, one entrepreneur in Slavonia, managed to place his project and the project has succeeded in withdrawing, and for this project it will succeed in withdrawing funds from EU funds. But in order to do all of this together and to do all of this together, so that the machine at which it could be put and attached to something, it was necessary to do less construction procedures, so nothing too big, nothing sensational in the existing space should have made some new rates, or foundations, put a little power, water, and more and found it before the problem. So it's about a town in Slavonia, not too big. It had no one to do it. And that's a serious challenge. So someone needs to fill the budget with their work, among other things. We, I read today, I mean on the cover of one newspaper, by the way, that we've opened foreign workers' quotas completely because there's just no one to work with. This opens up a new problem, what we have a chance to see and it is also a challenge for some other ministers, or vice presidents in this government. In Croatia lately we have more and more agencies dealing with foreign labour imports and it is a new job that absolutely people adapt to all conditions. The agencies of private or economic operators, i.e. from investors, i.e. those who need workers, charge 2 gross salaries. In this case it was concrete, the data I have was related to the Indians, so with basic labour, their gross salary is 8 thousand kuna, a little over 8 thousand kuna was guaranteed. The one who takes, must immediately pay the agency two gross salaries and the sea, is the condition that he has an airplane connection, so the plane ticket opened with the date back to India and the entrepreneur took 10 workers because he needed and half of it went away. So this is one of the serious challenges that is then reflected on both the budget and what this budget means and how we should fill that budget even though we are talking about budget rebalancing and we will definitely use today and tomorrow and we will talk about things that are related to next year and then what we have next. I'd like to use some more interesting data here. One very interesting thing is the growth of excise incomes on tobacco products because tobacco consumption is growing. In this context, I am very interested in what Minister Kujundzic would say, given that no preventive-health effect has been achieved by increasing the price of tobacco products, i.e. obviously more smokers, but obviously from these things we are increasingly naughty. Why? Or maybe the state is punishing us more and more because the revenues from the penalties of administrative measures have increased 10%, so it's convenient to see it. What's interesting is, let's say, when you take each one of us, except for those who are somehow parliamentary representatives of general practice, so you understand everything, each of us, when you look at a little budget rebalance and when you look at a budget, there are some items that are a little bit more interesting and that interest him a little bit more. I have therefore deliberately talked about two things so far, I have talked about the use or relationship between the signed contracts for the use of EU funds and the ones that have really been realised and I have talked about the problem of general employment because the problem of labour is a key problem in Croatia, and it will be a real challenge for both the prime minister and his full-time team. But, let's just say, I was interested in that Committee on Fiscal Policy, and it turned out that the commission spent 14% of what was planned, which means that the commission that was designed to consider and assess the application of fiscal rules obviously didn't work very well, but we have that commission so let it be found when it should be. Similarly, what is important is about pensions, so pensions, and everything related to them. There was obviously no fundamental real reform there, which we know and when we talk about that part, every time it comes to emphasis. We've put everything and everything into the pension system, and it's privileged and unearthed, and those who've really done their workday really barely make ends meet. We need to be optimistic somehow, hope that it will be better regardless of next year's election year, and we will see things through the budget, somehow because of the messages we need to send, these messages don't need to be so ugly and wrapped up in some kind of blackness, but I think we absolutely need to be realistic there, we need to look a little bit more and I'll talk about it when we talk about the budget, how the budget is going to be experienced by some, our budget, of course, about the Croatian budget, some experts who are dealing with it, someone who thinks that the Republic should take a step forward, so if you want to make a step, if you want to do something new, you just have to start reform. This budget rebalance says that we are not prepared for it, we were not ready for reforming the pension system, nor for reforming the health system, you see from all these documents, we do not have a key answer to any of the questions that every prime minister or prime minister should tell his minister of finance, what kind of RH 2030 or 2050, as soon as he deals with what business is going to be doing, what are we going to base economic growth on? We don't have an answer to that key question at this point and we don't have it all the time, I'm afraid that, what... I'm afraid of what I'm absolutely sure, I'm sure we won't, and in this budget, so next year is an election year, or this is a presidential year, the next is a parliamentary one, I have. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So even if we were to characterise this rebalancing in one or two sentences, this rebalancing is actually a real picture of this government, it's all wonderfully beautiful, we're packing in celephane or nice paper, we're putting up a bow and we have a product that looks really nice on the outside, and when you look under it a little bit, what we can conclude is that it's already been 3 years. In which there has been no serious reform, it will not be because the whole story is not rolling, stick all the time above the water level and try to survive, and when you ask our citizens if they saw all of this on the standard, at the quality of their lives, so don't ask us who from this pay phone are talking, ask people who were now on Mark's square or people you meet on the street or in the morning when you come to work, so someone you meet, they say there hasn't been any serious positive movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168328	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Branko Grcic's turn to speak for the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so if I wanted to say something briefly about this rebalancing and give a big picture then there are two things that are clear, one thing that happens with, on the income side, so the growth of tax revenues is as much as 3.1 billion kuna, that's a very large figure, something we talked about earlier, so we have a government projection, what happened is that income, tax revenues are growing 3.1 billion kuna. How do you explain that? It is not a higher rate of GDP growth, it is not a source of income growth, but it is obviously a question of the structure of that GDP in which, as counterpart Mrak Taritash said earlier, it is increasingly a source of classical consumption, and increasingly less investment, less and less investment, even this from EU funds is not enough to change such a picture, and I will say something later on, and of course it is a question of another very clear one, and that is what with tax discharge if income from taxes is growing so extremely and we are not planning to grow, obviously that tax discharge is not a real discharge, but it is something that cosmetics is all the time we try to repeat in opposition, but there is still no real answer to these questions. The second, second change on both income and distribution is what has been happening in the last few years, and this is the EU's correction of funds in line with the fact that plans in the realisation of these EU funds are not being realised. I'll just remind you last year what happened, so the EU funds are planned at a level of 10.8 billion kuna, then by rebalance before the end of the year, that amount is reduced to 8.1 billion to actually make 7.5 billion kuna or about 69%. However, it may be even more interesting that these 7.5 billion kunas when you refuse the amount that we are paying towards the EU, somewhere around 3.5 billion kuna, the net effect is somewhere around 4 billion kuna, which is today, according to today's cca parameters. 1% of GDP, which is about a gross contribution to say, the EU's gross contribution to GDP funds. But we are also withdrawing the question and what would happen then to the growth rate if it weren't for the EU funds that contributed so much to this growth in different segments of the economy and the state? Furthermore, if we figure that out then that's the point of this rebalance and everything else is I'd say somewhere a little bit subtract, on the second item come on, just as life has made you through these years, not full year, so these changes are always possible and that's what I'm not going to get into right now. But when I talk about some fiscal policy balance of the government in these last 3 years. That is four years if we are talking about two HDZ governments, then of course we will not only fiscal but also economic policies, then we must realise that it is good that we have this economic growth. It's about 2.5, 2.6% not what we would like but it's good because it allows this government a relatively comfortable situation and a fiscal policy-making, because budget revenues are really growing because of this fact and not just for 2.5 but somewhere between 3.5.4% of the year and even a little more, even a little bit more than that because it's so-called. nominal growth. And then actually the government in that situation came up with the number the minister was just talking about, which is that the last four years of revenues have increased more than 30 billion kunas in absolute amount. So you know what 30 billion kuna is? Well, if someone had given it to us in our term of office between 2012 and 2015, then wonders would have done wonders. That's what this is about. This is how you have the situation, and now the same colleague Mrak Taritash said, that despite such great incomes, you still have, of course, the expenditures that grow accordingly, you have the situation that in society neither the pensioners, nor the employees, nor the businessmen show any great satisfaction that they have gained from it, profited, etc., etc. And that's the real problem why that's the situation. So obviously the question is, where is it and how is this big money spent, where did that money go? Because it's not only 33 billion kuna, it's three years of growth up to that 33 billion kuna, which is a cumulatively very large amount compared to what was four years ago. Now, I have to refer to that tax discharge. So when I say that thesis then I say that on the basis of one indicator that may not be ideal, but it's the only possible at this point, and that's the share of the country's tax revenues relative to GDP. So when I look at 2015, when we left the government, the share of tax revenues in GDP was 20.03%. In the meantime, you have four rounds of tax redistribution, which is very often spoken of by the minister, and after four rounds of tax discharge in 2019, say the share of tax revenues in GDP is 20.4%, so there is somewhere, so nothing has been reduced and de facto tax revenues are followed by absolute GDP growth and there is no significant tax exemption, so neither for citizens nor for companies. In that whole process, I'd say there was wandering, whether we wanted to admit it or not, so in those four rounds of tax reform there was all sorts of things. And I very often commend the minister that he does not do bad work, but also very often under the influence of different groups, I would say interest groups, dropping, and then you have everything and everything in these tax measures. I'll just remind the following, first of all, you raise your wages to these benevolent people who pay more than 18,000 kuna, make their lives easier, that's not a priority to me. Then you further reduce the tax on profit-of-experience experiments in favour of well-being in the country, but it's not only bad, it's bad, it's bad for those people who have a reduced profit tax to work around 170,000 employees who receive only 3,900 kuna on average. I pulled it out of Finna's last year's data. Therefore, there is a serious doubt that those profits are made on the basis of underpaid workers, which is not good. That's a bad message. It means the profits are made on the basis of the underpaid workers. Furthermore, you reduce VAT to fruits, vegetables, meat, etc., and then the final effect of this being exactly what we have warned that this did not contribute to a little price reduction, although prices have increased for a part of these products. Then, first, you increase the VAT to the hosts from 13 to 25, and then after two years we realize that it wasn't a good move and then we go back to the proposal to reduce the VAT from 25% to 13%. So then again wandering, promising, and practically going through the parliament, you're going through a procedure of reducing the general VAT rate from 25 to 24%, and then you're going to put it back to square one. See how many inconsistencies there are inconsistencies. I can even understand the purpose and sometimes I called for it to be done, but for other reasons. For reasons to create money, to increase the personal deduction by 700,000 people in Croatia from 3,800 to 5,000 kuna and to increase their salaries between 300 and 500 kuna, that's what I stood for. However, the government has given up a reduction in the general rate for entirely other reasons and let the government explain it. And then you have this attempt to hit 100,000 private tenants with an increase in that flat tax, and five times, at least within the limits of that, so it didn't work out, of course, on local self-government because they didn't dare people to get high, they know that these people don't live, one small percentage lives, really lives, and one large percentage of private renters survive from it. Well, we're not going to let Dalmatia and the Primori become unfortunately Slavonia from which people would also leave if there were no tourism and this measure certainly did not contribute to them. Well then this latest now, this measure of tax relief for young people that is causing so much controversy, so we can in principle support young people, however, many people warn of something that should have been positive discrimination, that it will now be negative discrimination again, that I don't know, three people who work at the same workplace at the same firm and have 23, 27 or 33 years old, have three different salaries and claim it's unfair and it really looks unfair when you show it that way. And I'm not saying that these Benefit people are gonna lose like that birthday card when they turn 25 or 30. And it's really a problem, we can't get away with it. And here's another example that I'm particularly unhappy with, that in all these changes now, the tax deduction of the non-taxable will go from 3800 to 4000 kuna, it's such a symbolism, it's so much nothing, it's so zero, it just wasn't necessarily by me because the biggest increase in wages, the net salary from that is going to be 52 kuna. 52 kuna. So in the public sector, some 2 billion kuna's money was found to increase all these public sector salaries, and it had to be done, some holes had to be shut down, some minuses from the previous crisis period, but what about people in the private sector? So for them, the measure of increasing the non-taxable deduction, brings only 52 kn pay increases, and at most 52, there are those who will profit less than that. These are things we need to talk seriously about and deal with. And what you should look at in this regard to this whole situation is a very important thing. This situation in the tax, fiscal system leads us to the conclusion that very often many people point out that Croatia has the largest relative view, the public sector throughout the EU, that total public expenditure at all levels, institutions participate in GDP somewhere between 46% and 47%, and then you hear entrepreneurs say when you add all those entrepreneurs to these numbers, so that economic part that in any way operates with the state and is de facto dependent on the state and when you accumulate and add it up, the public sector goes to 70% of the entire economy and the whole country which is not good. So we have a de facto state economy, a de facto dominant state economy and you know what that means in the social, social sense, so that's the source of corruption. That's it. When politics at different levels decides on everything and everyone depends on this policy, it is a phenomenal source of corruption and disorder. And that's what we have to fight. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168330	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Puh will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168331	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, in my debate, will be extremely brief but also extremely specific and will look back on a major problem in Krapina-Zagoria County. Last year, last year, when we adopted the 2019 budget, we provided funds for the first time for the financing of Veleučišče Hrvatska Zagorje and Krapina and for its entry into public funding. This came after years and years of talks, agreements and here finally this year the Krapina-Zagorje County stopped being the only county in the Republic of Croatia that had no possibility of free study for its students. The government's amendment to our initiative was submitted and, of course, supported by the Prime Minister, who finally cut the story politically at the time and allowed our future students to afford studies in the Krapina-Zagorje County area. The government's argument at the time states that a redistribution of 4 million and 100 000 kuna is proposed to ensure the necessary resources for Velečište Hrvatska Zagorje and Krapina, which are in the process of transferring rights to the Republic of Croatia. Looking at this rebalancing we received on our tables, on the item Veleučište Hrvatsko Zagorje and Krapina, stands the amount of only one million and 305 802 kuna. I remind you, the amendment in the 2019 budget provided that the university needs 4 million and 100 000 kuna for its financing. The funds that are now in the rebalancing sector are listed only 32% of the projected and necessary funds. This morning, a meeting of former founders, i.e. founders of the Croatian Zagorje University and Krapina, was held, presenting that they had to pay 6 million kunas of completed university obligations until the rights were passed on. When we talk about founders then we talk about Krapina-Zagorje County, we talk about the town of Krapina and the municipalities of Đurmanec, Hum na Sutla, Jesenje, Petrovsko and Radoboj. A little looking at their budgets, especially when we look at the budgets of these municipalities, the debt that falls on their backs with this calculation today is about 10% of their original budget, so now when planning next year's budget should be allocated 10% of the budget just to solve this rest up, which remains in the name of outstanding liabilities, which are reduced funds. These municipalities and cities and counties recognized the importance of education and did not want Krapina-Zagorje County to be the only county that has no possibility of free study, they stood behind it, established a university and unfortunately instead of being rewarded are now being punished. Prior to the signing of the founding, founding rights contract at the meeting of the founders and the ministry, the founders were promised to resolve the problem and to find compensation for the measures for the period since the adoption of the amendments to the budget and until the signing of the contract signed only 11.7 this year. I'm now wondering why it's shrinking, which is why the funds for our university have been reduced to 4.1 million kunas that could have worked out and solved all of this, not that local self-government units are now in additional trouble and they need to find the means to settle these obligations. And lastly, I only have one more big question, according to the 11.7 university dean, when the transfer agreement was signed, the employees of the university did not get paid. Today it is 6:11, so in the period from 11.7 to 6.11., no university employee has received any salary according to the dean. I wonder why, why Zagorje is belittled, which is why our university, I would even say in some way boycotting because for years we've been struggling to establish it, we've been fighting for years for us not being the only county in the Republic of Croatia that has no free quotas, and now in some way I feel like we're being set up at every possible pace. As regards support for budget rebalancing, the Labour Party and Solidarity Party and independent representatives will hold their club meeting and decide on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168332	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Bozo Petrov will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168333	Dear Ministers, respected MPs and MPs as well as every year, at the end of the year, we first come to a rebalancing after this draft budget for the new year. We can divide this whole budget rebalance proposal into two items. The first item is an artistic impression, and the second is a real technical element. I'll talk about the artistic impression later. As for the real, technical elements and the seemingly excellent situation in which incomes grow, and the costs are decreasing what we want to present in the artistic impression, it does not stand. If you're going to look at technical elements under the Fiscal Responsibility Act it's formally done properly, formally. On the other hand, it should be stressed that the state is spending 2/3 of economic growth and draining it into its budget. In my opinion, I suggest that MPs adopt such a proposal to rebalance the budget where 2/3 of the values created in the budget, and not irresponsiblely fiscal, politically irresponsible, socially irresponsible. Specific data, as already said in previous discussions from 2016 to 2020, revenues have increased nearly 30 billion kuna, but you have managed to make it impossible. You've managed to spend more every year than you've created. So 30 billion kunas is new, you've been able to spend it all every year and more than that. Well, that's what you need to take off your hat. Especially because even after this protest and all those protests that are announced by people do not know where the 30 billion and the quality of life in Croatia went, the standard of people in Croatia is equally bad. That's why you have to be a magician, spend 30 billion on an annual level, and people don't feel it. The worst result in this budget rebalancing is seen in the exploitation of EU funds. This was also highlighted by representatives who had previously exhibited on behalf of the club, but we can say that by 2.2 billion kuna, less was used than planned. Justification is required in other procurement procedures, and it's all pretty boring because we hear the same story as a broken record every year, and so did last year. And last year you assured us that it would be better next year, now we see that 2.2 billion kunas have not been used again. While all other countries are trying to achieve as much as they can in all sectors, we are lagging behind these EU countries, we become impaled at the bottom of the EU, we are weakening anyway in the weak areas, either territorially or sectorally, we are not creating foundations that can lead to major shifts in economic activity and development under the average developed regions of the Republic of Croatia. And not only did you succeed, not only did you manage to spend the newly created 30 billion incomes, you boast of GDP growth compared to the estimated start of the year by 0.1%, 0.1% for all citizens, you should know that this is 400 million kuna, so newly created gains more than you estimated to be at the beginning of this year is 400 million kuna. Interestingly, for these 400 million, you have further deepened all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by 3.1 billion kuna as much as the tax revenues have increased. So that you can boast about your 0.1% of GDP growth piar, we all paid 3 and some billion kuna. The only picture I have at the moment I see it is that picture of that phemene, I don't know if you know, that yellow creature is walking, so is happa and eating around, so you've made GDP growth of 0.1%, but unfortunately that's not the worst thing, so you can boast about what kind of GDP growth, you've moved out so much RH that they're now returning money in terms of $18 billion a year, without it and without this extra one, extra fine through taxes, our GDP would at this point be in a minus, in a fat recession, and that's devastating, you've created an economy in which, without an evicted population and without an extra tax, we're in recession, and with all of which you need a round of applause, along with the 30 billion kunas that you spend more every year, every honor. And then the government talks about how tax-deprived citizens, there won't be any tax-deprivement until you start cutting your expenses, and the cost of your annual growth is higher than your incomes, and now you tell me that this is responsible management and responsible behavior, so what can you say to a family that spends more than it earns for years, how do you stimulate, what kind of message do you send to citizens? You're wasting it. Someone else is gonna pay it back. It's not a problem. And besides, I'm interested in one other thing, when teachers already have to make up for the hours, the missed ones, in order to get their job done, do you have to make up for something because of all these minuses every year and the truths that you've been making up every year for each budget and rebalancing that we're going to be in plus next year? Is what I see and tomorrow you'll come up with a budget proposal that will be in the deficit and tomorrow you'll tell us that next year you'll spend more than you've earned, is there anything you need to make up for, so wouldn't it be fair for people who've been strikein' you don't need anything, we don't do anything, and neither do we, even these hours you're fighting to get better, you don't have to make up for it, that's correct. And the expenditure side of the Croatian state budget, it's one of the unfavourable transfers of money from the state to local regional self-government outside budget users, interestingly, in these papers you put in this proposal, it says that you will reduce the nominal debt by a billion and 282 million kuna compared to the original plan, which is the billions you have not used from the EU funds, so you are minus. But the cost increases, 500 million kuna increases for the state apparatus, an additional 122 million kuna for the rehabilitation of institutions in the health system without even starting to solve structural problems in the system. For years you've talked about how demographic policy needs to be strengthened, now you're reducing the amount of child benefits, the active employment policy, the amount that the Republic of Croatia spends on the pension system is growing much faster even in the percentage of income generated from pension insurance contributions, we're sinking into an increasing deficit, constantly in charge at 285 billion kuna level, and then we're going to boast that we're doing great because our debt ratio is falling in GDP, and without those of you moving out without these duties, you're fat in the downs, and that share doesn't cost you. I'd like to ask you to stop fooling around to stop closing our eyes, you've blown state spending, state budget, state spending on 30 billion kuna. I will remind you of the 2008 current parliamentary representative Mr. Schucker was Minister of Finance and he spoke to us here in 2008 and assured us that Croatia will not end up in recession, just as we hear today that everything is great, it will not end in recession because our economy is not so dependent, it is independent of global influences. There next year for 10% of GDP down there. No one remembers what they assured us back then. Stop closing your eyes. You've increased the cost of the state by 30 billion kuna, to maintain this system you take from people an additional 3 billion kuna through taxes, and you're talking about how you tax-deprive them. And on one thing, I must congratulate you, I will return to the beginning of the story, which is an artistic impression, in five. Given the disaster you have from the technical elements in this rebalancing proposal in tomorrow's budget proposal, given how much you spend and what you don't have and what you're going to leave those skeletons in the closet to some other governments behind you, the artistic impression is five. Well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168334	Thank you, too. Now it is Mr. Robert Jankovic who will speak on behalf of the National Minorities' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168335	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zdravko Maric. First of all, in view of the previous discussions, I have a need to emphasise what is called this item of the agenda, it is called the Amendment and the Supplement of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 on behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities I will speak exclusively of it. First of all, the National Minority Representatives Club unanimously supported the 2019 draft budget in December last year. Of course, as life goes on, it brings some changes to the basis that we will base in that same budget for 2019 with this rebalancing. As for the rebalancing itself, everyone who had the opportunity or had the time to read and analyze, but also all the numbers standing there could have come to the conclusion that they were changing or changing for the better. Above all, the basic three segments when we analyse the budget other than revenue and expenditure are one macroeconomic framework of the state budget compared to what we planned. So in the segment of this macroeconomic framework, we can say that GDP growth in the first six months of this year, so in the more unfavourable six months was 3.1%, and that the projected economic growth plan for 2019 was 2.8%, and it will be very certain with these reserves what the minister said in his presentation might be exceeded. As far as the importance of the macroeconomic framework is concerned, this relates to the inflation that we have monitored most of the analysis regarding energy prices growth this year. As for the second important segment of any state budget, this is the share of public debt relative to GDP. We were when we first adopted the first tax reforms on the Committee on Finance in 2016, then one of the main objectives was to reduce public debt in GDP, which was then close to 80%. In 2018, we had a share of public debt in GDP last year ended with 74%. In this year, and I expect, in accordance with the Minister's statement, that by the end of the year, this will be achieved by austerity and cautious fiscal policy measures to 71% and that the projections we saw in the materials by 2022 will be reduced by an additional 10%, so by 2020. 68%, 2021. 65% and 2022 even to 61% of the public debt in GDP, which is an extraordinary result compared to our countries in our environment. As far as the third segment is concerned, it is a lack of state budget, which is why we who voted for this state budget in December last year, it was planned for some 4.2 billion kuna, which was then considered a good result. However, the results we now see on the table are significantly better than what we planned at the end of 2018 for the year of the projected deficit 4.2 billion kuna is now just a little more than 1.2 billion kuna with optimism that the minister hinted at by the end of the year. So he's already now if we were to count at least how much data I have available with the local state, the lack of the state budget would already be absent or have a surplus. So, as I said, these three segments that are important to us to objectively view the budget with the basis of the data that are publicly available in this material. The macroeconomic framework, GDP growth in line with expectations, even slightly higher, inflation is lower. It exists due to the rise in energy prices, so the share of public debt relative to GDP is reduced by the planned dynamics, and the lack of the state budget despite all these difficulties that hit us this year continues this trend of reduction, so we expect and last year I remember the rebalancing that the minister was saying that he was going to be smaller than planned, so we ended up in green in plus hopefully, I think it's a good message, that that's how it's going to be this year. As regards revenue and expenditure for 2019 That part of this rebalancing business, therefore, the increase in income is obviously due to one, the simplification of the tax system, the other is tax exemptions that are exclusively due to Minister Marić who designed them and spent them and should be known that, despite the many tax cuts, there are even two contributions, there are surpluses, it was mostly created in the VAT therefore, therefore with a spending system and a very nice result of 345 million kunas of higher incomes than planned profit tax. As for the expenditure side, it is certainly both for numerous viewers and much more interesting, what is most important, therefore, that the expenditure on interest on the loans raised is less than planned, and as regards the increase where we raised the biggest expenditures, so we increased them on the pension system, so the most vulnerable population, which is therefore, if I well prescribed the number, 849 million kuna more for pensions, of course there is a constant problem that now the pension system costs almost 41 billion kuna, and in revenues only 25 or 26, which means that 14 or 15 billion kunas per year that we collect by tax taxes, so we give for pensions, and that is one problem of this system. As for the second significant increase in expenditures during the rebalancing period, this is the same law that the National Minority Representatives Club supported, which is therefore maternity benefits in the other 6 months, if I have well summed up, it is 175 and 41, so around 216 million kunas more than planned, but I believe that this is a very good message for the most potent population of this country, or those who today give birth to children and thus ensure the future of this country. Even here at the expenditure, of course, as I said, the events that took place during this year, from LNG terminals to Croatian airlines could not have been planned, but with those arguments that we have heard we believe that they are justified and therefore both the revenue and expenditure side is in balance, thus we come to the conclusion that all those measures of fiscal policy we have implemented in the past 3 years. The conditions for us to implement them are met in the last year of this term. As for what I am here today, and this is the attitude towards the National Minority Representatives Club, or national smaller representatives in this rebalancing, have been raised, not much, we understand the situation in this country, funds have been raised for the implementation of the National Minority Operational Programme, this document is the most important document, it is the government document of August 2017. Which, it is the most important document for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, gives one legal basis for many of the things that many governments have before us pushed under the rug to implement, the increase is not significant, but joyous, in rebalancing will certainly help us and we have high expectations in relation to the 2020 budget. All in all, the National Minority Representatives Club, as supported by the 2019 budget, will also support this rebalancing, and regarding these measures that certainly, especially if I have this opportunity, so I look at the media of the surrounding countries, when I see their reports and when I hear our finance minister's report, I can only congratulate the ministers on this, on this rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168336	Thank you. Let us welcome the students and pupils of the School of Economics from the Križevci who have joined us in the assembly. Good afternoon and welcome! ... So are their teachers. [[Applause]] We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the following is fellow Zekanovic Hrvoje on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168337	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President HS. Here I asked the minister at the beginning to explain something to me, so here I will repeat my question, his answer, the question was whether the Republic of Croatia has only a smaller deficit or the Republic of Croatia has a real surplus, he said, I will quote it, maybe I'm wrong, according to Eurostat, the Republic of Croatia has a surplus or we're making more money than we're spending, and that's not true, so that's not true, that's the key thing. I don't think Ministers that you've told the truth, that you've lied but simply and you know that in the economy all things can be shown in different ways, so both incomes and expenditures can be shown in different ways, so if we still take incomes and expenditures and local self-governments and regional self-governments, then the story can really look like we've saved money or we've spent less than we've earned, and that doesn't match the truth. Because here, here, I have to admit today there was also a strike by those educators at St. Mark's Square, here in front of HS, so I supported my fellow educators a little bit, and I haven't been able to hear your whole explanation unfortunately, but I'm curious, so you can answer in the final word, whether the Republic is still in debt or not? I think he's in charge, so I think he's in charge, if we have a surplus why extra debt? Someone will call it from the Government of Andrej Plenkovic debt reprogramming, but it is additional borrowing, in other words, here I will try from this place, from my point of view to explain to the Croatian public however, the Republic of Croatia is increasingly in charge each year, and each year we cannot talk about any surplus or surplus income, but only about the lack of income. The other thing I would mention here, and it's extremely important, it's about demographics, so unfortunately, it's almost not in your presentation at all, and in this program that has a few hundred pages, any demographics. The most important problem for the Croatian state is the problem of evicting the young population, working, active in the reproductive phase, and the Croatian state has not found, I am talking about the finance currently, the economic model to keep these young people in the country. We don't have that. And instead of you from this pay phone defending the rebalancing proposal, you're going to defend the budget proposal, that you've said a thousand times young, demographics, the rest of the stimulation, you almost didn't mention it. And that's not good. So, your policy, the policy of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, is completely missed. The main point that was, I will also highlight the pre-election point, the main pre-election point at the time of the campaign for this Croatian Parliament is hardly mentioned today, not mentioned. And here I have to, also when I'm talking about rebalancing, mentioning what happened here today in St. John's Square. Mark in front of the Croatian Parliament building. So, fellow high school teachers, primary school teachers, and university teachers are looking for a raise. And now in public it actually looks like they're looking for something again and they're doing it a little bit, but as little money as it is, it's about three hundred kunas about three hundred kunas a month that aren't there. I spoke today, and yet I will mention that it remains a little in memory and those who watch and monitor the work of the Croatian Parliament, in Croatia there is one caste, I have called it the caste 15,000 that has, there are 15 thousand, and they have salaries over 15,000. I don't mean that on fellow MPs here at the Croatian Parliament, we're visible here, we talk, we do, some work a little bit, some work a little more, but I mean those 15,000 we don't even know our name, we don't know in which agency, public institutions work, we don't know if they work at all, and they get a lot of pay, and I'm going to point out everyone has membership cards, everyone has a political party or some. If there's no money I'm ordering from this place to grab a little bit of it in that pool and let the money slip out of that pool, so that caste 15,000. After all, the Ministers said here from this place that we have positive trends when we talk about withdrawing European money. Positive trends sound great, but what you did not say was that Croatia is in the thick downs relative to what the EU paid for, and how much did it actually pull, a fat, fat minus. And it'll take years and years, and I'll dare say for decades of these positive trends that we'll finally be in the positive. And finally here I'm going to mention another topic that is very important, and it's about pensions or the second pension column. Many European countries that may not be as good a role model to us as we do. Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary exactly 7 of them, in fact, the state, I wouldn't want to misstate, or they came out of the second pension column, or they didn't come in, or they didn't come in. Croatia, of course, still has pension column number two, where we pay pension funds several billion a year to keep Croatian money and to return it back to the state, which is one absurd absurdity. So this is one model of economics that no economist can explain to Croatian citizens, and one of the biggest robberies that happens in the Croatian state. So, I'm going to repeat 7 European EU Member States either went out or refused to enter the second pension column, and we're talking budget rebalancing here, so if there's no money, I'm going to say, for example. For young families, for stimulation, demographic stimulation, here's the money in the second pension column, grab it, take it, they're here, they're waiting for us. And lastly, I would only mention one more topic, the only thing I said here, and I stand behind that we are in a huge downturn on the EU. I'd like to put it on paper, but it's kind of public, transparent, open, and true, as far as we got it, I'm talking only about the money we lost. And to include in the calculation other than this direct funding the number of emigrated Croats in the EU or how many of us, the labour force, first of all, donated to Germany and to many other European countries, and nothing has been refunded to us, nothing has been refunded to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168338	Thank you, too. The next colleague is Tomislav Panenic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168339	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Vice-President of the Government with associates, here I think that now will actually start this course of the day that has somehow dragged us all together to discuss the rebalancing, somehow I feel like all of them are waiting to talk about the budget tomorrow, but actually the rebalancing itself is talking about the government's successes and what is often asked is on the basis of which we form the budget for next year, and the ministry itself states until the budget rebalancing adopted in the assembly cannot be shown in the 2019 column in the budget, the draft budget for 2020. Well, of course, sometimes it's very difficult to evaluate, but what we need to determine is where the government did not make plans during the 2019 term and in the period until the end of the year. We all know that at certain levels of government we bring a plan based on expectations, local self-government, regional self-government expects the state to provide funding, expect the realisation of certain projects and aid funds, so they often know how to put certain projects into the budget to be visible to ensure that they can be reported. And at the end of the year when they're disappointed, they don't succeed, or who knows what reason to rebalance it to zero or to a lower value. But then we ask ourselves, if that's how it is on local self-government, one great unknown that I can realize is that at the state level? When we look at the budget and its changes for 2019, it is clear that even the state is not sure what it can do and very often then we have a situation like now on the rebalancing that we have significant reductions and, or unrealization of planned activities. I am pleased that the minister can show here that the revenues of the state budget are growing but vice versa, I am glad that the situation on the expenditure side has also been reduced. Here we should say that simply if we have income growth, then the expenditure should also be monitored, but not on the cost side, but on that investment side, which ensures future revenue of the budget and what is the most important income of the citizens. However, we are stuck in conditions of low growth where we sometimes show our muscles in relation to perhaps some environment. We are successful, but when we look at the reality of half the economic growth in one developed European state is worth more than our 2% to 3% within which we move, but in the end, the president said today in her presentation of 25% of economic growth we cannot expect any of the benefits shown by the Government to feel our citizens. The conditions, one of the key conditions that we have actually achieved with negotiations with the European Commission, EU membership is a quality withdrawal of funds from the Eu Funds to achieve rapid growth, reach certain members at the level of standards and can then be competitive and our entrepreneurs can make better revenues, that they can pay their citizens better and there are no better demographic measures. This is how we look at it, for example. in the division of the Ministry of Economy we have a reduction of 500 million kuna, most of which comes from the unrealization of the funds for which they were planned last year. If we see the government's desire that they're talking about to encourage investment, economic development by looking at an item of investment-enhancing measures it's halved from 68 million to 34. It wasn't realized, if 68 million kuna had been realized by now, then no one could have cut it. The improvement of the business climate for which 3 million kunas were also allocated was planned in 2019. 3 million kunas, all will agree not enough of this insufficient we have failed to achieve neither, actually it says that we will achieve 2 million kunas. If we with 2 million kunas want to change the business climate in the Republic of Croatia then we can call ourselves the nation that is most rational but I'm afraid at this point it's hard for anyone to believe. 500 million again at the Department of Agriculture's division. Two ministries that are economical every 500 million kuna in such a rough way when they are cut down and re-emerged from the EU. And I believe that both Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to his ministers in coordination must be unsatisfactory and say you must speed up the withdrawal of funds from the EU and indeed here I and my club would like to see those reports that take place in the closed part of the government's session on the use of EU funds which, as they look, do we ever get them? Why are they in the closed area? Why isn't that publicly available? We have indications here, but we don't know which minister for what justified reasons or unwarranted reasons he's not able to make plans. But it is not the government's plans, it is not a single minister's plan, it is a plan that we have asked for EU membership through the referendum of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. EU membership is about withdrawing funds, especially those that need to help us reach other member states, and if we do not realize that we have actually destroyed the hopes of the Croatian people and those who voted in favour, we do not realize their expectations. In the Ministry of Agriculture, if we are already talking about these economic aspects, I would like to mention the wood industry, the wood industry that recently had an unpleasant surprise after vacations. It's no surprise, they've already felt it only after vacations they've got a real state of mind, the amount and the amount of contract are shrinking. The recession affected their sector, they operate on the world market, and they felt among the first. What did we do? There has been a proposal since then by Minister Tolusic, 80m kuna, to ensure support for the industry. We see now that the current minister is reducing it to 40, it won't be so much a year, let alone 2 million kunas. The secretary of state said on the board yesterday that they had failed to raise funds. Is it ever, ever someone here said or in some communication that we're going to secure 80 million kunas if we secure the means of purpose, I haven't heard it from the minister. That's not what the minister said, he said we're going to invest 80 million kunas and the expectations of all business entities in the wood sector is to realize the possibility and not to be told by anyone here, but at your position there was some luft we couldn't catch, we sold the fog. ... Shepherding, goat-eating abolished, phytosanitary measures taken down, fishing support reduced 20 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking here about the real measures that need to be passed on to our economic operators. Here I'm not talking about the inauguration of the president who will be next year, about the costs of some, about planes, this is the measures I've mentioned so far regarding the economy of the Republic of Croatia, if we have key indicators of failure, then we can't expect that the growth that is now weak, continues in continuity and that we reach what the president says 5% of the growth today. And then if we as a member of the EU who has access to funds, funds to boost competitiveness, we do not realize those rates, and neighbouring countries of the type of Serbia, or others who are members, achieve higher rates, then somewhere we are wrong. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, which should be on the roof and in some ways organise that all ministers are using the funds successfully, shows to themselves that they are the first ones to fail. 200 million kuna less from the PKK. And then, if we were to take the order of our ministries, the development of the island that we passed, the fall of funds, the socially stimulating housing of 100 million kunas less, the purchase of INA, is reduced from 45 million to 6 million kuna in this rebalancing, waste management is one of the key topics, we see that the whole affair was created, especially in Dalmatia, but believe it is not still, especially looking here, maybe Zagreb and those centres, halved. Instead of using the 583 million planned, 297 were used in total. The Ministry of Science, which is a coalition partner, holds as the last straw of salvation where the HNS minister performs the curricular, gets 225 million less, the reform loses 30 million kuna, decentralised functions that help develop education at the levels of counties, cities and municipalities. Capital investment, 40 million, from 60 to 20 million kuna, has been reduced without speaking about EU projects, which is a mildly said disaster. I will point out one more item that is not in this special part of Croatia's road. In my county, then Minister Gabriela Žalac appears, pompously announcing during an early election campaign in the city of Ilock, a central transversal is being built, long-awaited to connect the city of Ilock with the highway, in fact, not only that part but also through the security aspect of helping the better, safeguarding the Croatian border. In the end, what did we get? Making one document, one part of the road that, documents for a part of the road in length of several kilometers, couple, 4, 5 here, if I'm not mistaken, compared to all those viaducts that are supposed to come into existence, a minor part, in the end, and we have a whole series of investments that the Croatian roads are planning, which are not achieved. If we have 627 million kunas on state roads from 2.2 billion to 1.6, then we really need to ask someone who's responsible for this situation. If we don't realize the plans, then don't present to us tomorrow, and that's all that's not realized in this year, it's tomorrow that it's going to be in the draft budget, and we're supposed to be someone, then we're going to be called by the opposition, and we're not voting for the budget proposal, that we're not normal, that we're unreasonable, that the figures are growing. I'd like to see the realisation of the original plan to be, not when we're having a rebalancing debate here right now, so when someone does a budget on the basis of that rebalance won by the ruling majority and then we say here, we have a realization, we've achieved something. Let's do this plan you present, it was for 2019, it's not realized and for 2020 there will also be no realisation, it is certain, so assure us that we should vote in any situation or, what do we do to vote for this rebalancing? We should have just said, not that we're against, but this should actually be said, someone needs to literally remove the chair they're sitting on because they didn't deserve their efforts and then it all comes down to the Minister of Finance sitting here with us today. He'll listen to it all, he'll tell the prime minister, we've done the job, but we're not satisfied. Certain ministers, directors, directors and those responsible for the implementation have not achieved their job. Here, just like that to stay local in these about 20 seconds, in Babina Gredi the problem of the school hall, it seems to me that it's already become a tragedy, and this year it's gone down again, and we haven't been able to make one hall for years and solve the problem. We'll be like a club against this rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168340	Thank you, too. We continue the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is a colleague of Grozdana Peric. Here you go, fellow Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168341	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Here is the proposal for amending and supplementing the 2019 Croatian budget, and as we all know the macroeconomic trends that have taken place were very positive but primarily the impact this government has made, and this is the measures of fiscal policy that has greatly influenced that these further trends feel more significant within the budget itself. So what has been mentioned many times so far is that incomes from taxes and contributions have increased by more than 3 billion kunas is precisely the impact of this policy, which is highly guided by citizens, also on entrepreneurs. Economic growth is often mentioned here as something very small and very low, but in the first half it was over 3% and in the second half of the year it is about 2.8 and it is certain that both the intensity and the desire of all of us to do so is much greater. However, looking at the environment and looking at the countries with which we work most and doing business then we see that these trends are also in their economic activity quite weakened, and then that is one sign that we too must be very careful and cannot expect some major shifts. The tax discharge in this period was over 6.3 billion citizens and entrepreneurs themselves, which is very significant since here it is, as I said, that the increased revenues in most of the items of the budget itself are. With these changes, what is important to say is the expenditure of the budget itself and the amount of expenditure does not increase but decreases by 1.3 billion kuna and what is to be said is that the expenditures affecting the result of the general state are held at €111.5 billion. So all that is happening is within the framework of real and real income, which is extremely important. On the dissipated side, the reduction took place on interest which is precisely the impact of macroeconomic trends and the timely reaction of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry which has refinanced or paid off part of the debt. When we talk about other items, then it could be seen that this is usually about changes and additions to all that some ministries have not done or have not done normally enough to make changes to make it a reality effort and not to hold positions with that certainty that will not be fully realised. When we talk about expenditures, it should be pointed out that there has been an increase in pensions during this period and no matter how much some have banalised and said that it is little in the number of pensions and to the number of pensioners it is around 850 million kunas at the annual level at this point and that what I have mentioned has already occurred in this period and there has been an increase of 3+2% in salaries in this period, which is from these general sources alone over 494 million kuna and other sources of some 160 million kuna. It is important to mention that, in parallel with all these events, social welfare, social rights, and so on, personal disability and compensation for assistance and care, which have been increased by 175.5 million kuna, and we must also not ignore that there are increased expenditures, i.e. maternity leave payments of more than 41 million kuna. This follows the trends that occur in the very draft budget for 2020. You can see that all this continues in the following year. So all of these rights are real and real measures that can lead to a change in demographic policy, regardless of what some people demean or speak. So reliability, security of income that young families can have, as well as all those who need it. When we talk about the state of the budget itself and in this period we are aware that it happened and also that part of the state guarantees were paid, and this extension from the previous year where more than 2.5 billion kuna was paid and in this nearly 2 billion, which is a total burden when you look at over 4.5 billion in 2 years, which is evident that there is a great potential that could have been that it did not happen, to be used for some other purposes. However, the government was welcomed by such a skeleton from the closet that it had to solve and take care of. When we speak often of these European funds, then we must see that in this year more than 14 billion kunas are European funds that have been withdrawn and that will be realised in relation to the previous year in which about 10 billion kunas were in place. When I looked a little bit at the 2013 budget here, let's just say for the comparison just help from the EU in 2015, we're not going to count this previous year when we just started, but in 2015 it was only 4.6 billion kuna to get here now at 14.7 billion kuna. I'm not saying it's enough, but when we compare that it's 3 times more then it's a significant shift and it's visible that, in that part, that it's normative, but probably organisational and then capacity on local units, it's regional, too, so they've been able to, in one way, their applications and the quality of the projects themselves, they've contributed to making these funds a much more quality retreat. When you look at extra budget funds then we can also tell the users, we can say that a third of the budget is actually an additional dish in them, so only Croatian waters have more than 3 billion kunas, roads with 2.5 billion, CERP is small he is only 52 million, 52.8, Environment Fund 1.8, DAB around 970 million kuna and HZZO is 26.4 billion kuna. These are huge resources, which should be taken into account and their business normally, and how it affects the business of the general government and the consolidated budget. It should also be said that, in parallel with this report, the Committee on Fiscal Policy also discussed the proposed changes and additions to the state budget and concluded that all fiscal rules have been met and that given the structural balance that this budget will remain within the limits foreseen by the medium-term budgetary objective, with the continuation of the trend of the public debt reduction. As you can see, public debt decreases from 74.3% to 71% of GDP, which is an extremely high result, and a continuation of this trend is expected in the '20s and 2022s respectively, when we look at that percentage of over 13 percentage points decreased in this period since 2012. It would just point out that these changes will, of course, be complemented by the HDZ Club, and it can be seen that real revenue, real revenue, and all users and the whole functioning of the state are taken into account, but also by keeping in mind that all those obligations that have been made should be addressed and that everyone is aware of how much more problems there are regarding both health and public administration and everything else. So here's the HDZ Club that supports these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168342	Thank you. Before the presentation of our colleagues, we welcome representatives of the Vidovec Women's Association, welcome to the assembly. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ministers, the HDS Club, the HSLS, the HDSSB will support these changes and budget additions. We believe that at the time in which this budget is done, in which it is implemented and implemented with all those problems that have been hit daily by state finances, it could be said that true magic maintains the stability of the budget and in the end of the year rebalances with results that have not been spent more than it has been earned. It is certain that we would all like to have even better results in that article of European projects than those who are, although they themselves are positive compared to the previous period, but we must look back at a problem that is present on a daily basis, which makes it impossible for us to spend more quality realisation and quality primarily on European money, which is the Public Procurement Act. So, the law that is holding us back, which does not allow for realisation, which does not allow for stronger withdrawal of European money. For this reason, some items in this rebalancing are as they are and are not realised to the extent that they could be realistically looking at that law better, that it is more efficient, that it is more operational and that it can be handled better. In any case, when we add problems with shipbuilding, with everything that has happened, we can only continue to find out and say that the Ministry of Finance headed by the minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course headed by the prime minister, has managed to keep the balance this year, that the finances are stable, that social giving is increased, especially in the part of those who are most important to us, and that these are children, so they are births, so they are pensioners but also people who work in the public sector and in the economy, because we need to be aware that tax reforms have gone towards liberation and economies, that they have gone towards liberating tax benefits for people, that they have gone more towards man, that they have gone with significant benefits in order for people to get higher salaries, to help employers to give more salaries and keep them in our country, keep them in Croatia. In addition to all this, the budget is as such positive, it is to be supported and we as a club are pleased to support it, of course, we want it to be even better in the coming periods, even better, to be more turned towards man, exclusively towards man, according to the greater incomes of people and, in the end, to have satisfaction for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to create a more satisfying society, to simply bring this social peace into the Croatian man because it is something that we need most to develop at all, so that we can make progress at all. With these thoughts and findings, our club will support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168344	Thank you very much. The next colleague, Boris Milosevic, is in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club, no colleagues, so he is losing his right to debate. After him, counterpart Tomislav Žagar is in front of the Club of Representatives of HUSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics, he also does not exist, so he loses his right to debate. After him is a colleague of Stjepan Curaj, a club of representatives of the HNS, he is here and therefore does not lose the right to debate, here is colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168345	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will also try to be like my colleague Hrg, the shorter and more concise, so when we have this period of the year, we are also talking together about the budget, practically also about the rebalancing and, of course, the rebalancing falls a little bit into the shadow of the budget announced next year itself, but this is certainly an opportunity for a retrospective of what we did, what we do this year, and what we expect as one base actually for further planning and further results that await us next year. What is certainly good is that total revenues are increasing, which is certainly good news, we know what can be read, the increase in overall economic activity, so 1.6 billion kuna and the total revenues for the Republic of Croatia according to the rebalancing budget for this year will be EUR 137.7 billion. So, what we're expecting for one of those things, I can't say with anxiety but in fact, one expectation is the third quarter of the GDP growth assessment itself, we know that GDP in the first half of the first half was 3.1%, which was absolutely on the trail of estimates even though it's now slightly reduced to 2.8 here, but we know that this third quarter, and we all know that it's months and what it is, and we know that it's already indicators of the tourist season, that it was better than the past, which was recordable, so maybe we can expect some shifts, even though we might not see it in just increasing the amount of funds and more economic activities to say that obviously the prices of both accommodation and services in tourism have increased. What's good, as I said in the replica, which would particularly apostrophe are VAT revenues that grow 2.2 billion kuna and you must know that from 1.1. this year and in recent years we have always had tax discharges, especially as regards VAT because from this year we have introduced lower rates especially on medicines from 5% to 5, but also on most foods, i.e. fresh meat, eggs, fruit, vegetables from 25% to 13%. This resulted in the tax discharge of citizens, and in some ways by increasing purchasing power, although the effect is not what we might all want to be, not all 10% have become the pockets of our citizens. Obviously, there is something left for merchants, or we can tell suppliers and merchants, and I probably hope that, consequently, it has gone to an increase in the salaries of people working in those sectors that are connected in that chain. In general, however, these tax redundancies have led to an increase in tax revenues. Slowly, a little bit, you don't need to listen to the economy, and I think that both Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Maric is doing very well, not sly, because you have economic laws telling you that by a certain time we can expect a reduction in tax repression to increase tax revenues by some point when it goes parallel, and therefore you need to slowly approach it, not abruptly because simply that line, no one can tell it exactly who it is, which is the point at which...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168346	Excuse me, give your colleagues time to stop, excuse me. An apology. .../ [[Intruder: It's easy for me to time.]] Who knows what I'm going to say wrong... /... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't, please, I'll do it later. Excuse me. Here you go. My colleague, please don't. I'm sorry, but please don't let me warn you right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168347	Here, thank the chairman. You can't hear that in these transmissions, but like this, but I hear what's being said, so I'm pretty embarrassed. So it's very difficult to say that point which is the point point break in which when you cut taxes will go down the income from tax. Now it's a curve like this, we can go up here, go up, reduce growth, income, and that's why you shouldn't and that minister obviously knows, you shouldn't go through the knee, you shouldn't go over the knee, you shouldn't go too fast because you just need to listen to the economic activity yourself. I think the cost reduction is, of course, one conservative policy, that we don't spend more than we have and they shrink by 1.3 million kuna, so we're absolutely constant in that someone, well, I can't say positive but it's minimally negative 0 or positive 0 because that's the point of spending as much as you have and that everything you spend is simply investing in further development, further growth and just increasing income and I think that way is good. We are already mentioned that the cost of salaries is growing, for 850 million almost for pensions, so there is a lot of it, maternity leave that we have heard now for next year, health recovery, there are also capital projects such as LNG on Krk, etc. What's also good to say, what shows a picture of one economy is our country's credit rating, and so not only public debt and what the state owes rather than the meaning of the economy and then the citizens, means almost saving is almost 800 million on interest alone, which is an extremely good indicator, means that quality uses economic indicators according to all international financial institutions and lenders, and thus we make a cheaper or more favourable interest, thus making cheaper money and refinance what is once in charge. So because many times these colleagues can say why we pay for it if we have more money, we have enough credit to pay, but it is good and sometimes to refinance them, however, it is desirable when you can come to that rating, especially investment. So, macroeconomicly I mentioned 3 and 9 is actually our first quarter GDP growth, 2.4 second and average 3.1, and I think it's safe to say that exports of goods and services should be bigger, it's always our cancer wound that this net difference between exports and imports is pretty much always negative, but let's say that that's what stays in the amannet not only because of the Ministry of Finance but it's a bit wider web and ministries and parts that need to contribute that we are more competitive on the external market and that our companies are extremely working for export because that's what direct inflow of funds outside, I don't know what my colleague Bulj is saying to send money than really what someone earns them and someone pays outside. So what I can just say is that I absolutely shorten that the budget is sustainable, that it's good, what everyone here can and you'll all agree to do quality work and now suddenly as money has. Now that he's got the money, let's give it to everyone. Anyone who asks for it now has money for everything. Politically, while it was less, we couldn't, now that there's more we're going to share everyone. It should be very careful and it is Pandora's box and there should be both systematic and systematic. Why did we ask as a party and get up to increase the coefficient for teachers, or teachers? Because they are implementing one of the greatest reforms, not these governments, but these countries in history. That's what my colleague Shucker said very well. Until we find a system in which we will clearly reward those who work, know and can make a distinction among others, we will never move forward in society. And not two brothers are the same, let alone two employees, and this needs to find a model of reward, promotion and admission to the same and public service that really are worth being and therefore paid. And the picture of our economy, it speaks most as long as the job in the state or public service is the first choice of a young man or any employee, something is wrong with the economy. This cannot and must not be the most desirable, the state must not be the most desirable employer, perhaps for individuals, the top experts the state needs and needs to reward financially but in general, it must not be an attitude in Croatia that when you get a job in a state or public service, as if you have won a lot. It's the only thing that can get you out of there with death. It is not good because it means that the economy, or that the real sector, must and should be stronger than the state, and that those who have quality, can always find a job and it is coming slowly, but I still think that we need to find a system of evaluation that will then and those coefficients and all the wages and all the wages and all the wages that they know, can, will be, and will be rewarded, to see it on their salaries, it is a system that needs to be and of course to get away from that naturalist classical where they are all the same and all are equally valuable which is not and cannot be so. They never were and they never should be, but good. As far as we are concerned, we can still be satisfied in this year and with the Ministry of Construction, so this is recorded on the rebalancing scale to improve housing and the communal economy, that is. Communal infrastructure, growth from 31 points to something million to 46, so these are directly resources that help our units of local self-government, energy reconstruction of EU funds, so it increases so more is agreed, more funds are withdrawn, so by 58 million, so compared to 13.5%, so more than planned, so more funds are withdrawn. We also have various systems here and through the information systems of spatial planning, so, etc., so I think that it should be, that although there is a total increase of 4.4 billion kuna on the absorption of funds, although it is less than planned, it needs to be squeezed, it needs to be found that component and financed, there must always be space in the budget for it, so these increases are quite justified, someone who brings 100, must be allowed to bring those 15, that this 100 is the essence. Of course, the HNS Club will support this rebalancing, of course, tomorrow's budget certainly brings us new challenges, but I think this may be a good starting point for us to consider what else we can do and listen to how this year will end, that next year we will go further and get to the border that I was saying at the beginning, in which every kuna of tax discharge brings more tax revenues, there is a sensitive border, it cannot be precisely known, a little bit watched, studied and certain that these announcements as well as the governor said about some crisis, recessions that it is not so close, that tomorrow it will not be safe what is good, but we must absolutely be responsible still with and finances publicly but above all and with what they mean to our citizens to relieve taxes, to leave more money in the citizens' pocket, and that is what is being brought forward to these larger walks. Thank you, and the HNS club will support this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168348	Thank you, too. The last debate on behalf of the club of MPs is the debate of counterpart Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please welcome colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168349	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As regards the rebalance of the 2019 budget, it should be repeated to discuss and adopt it in light of positive macroeconomic indicators, fiscal indicators and what is good, the growth of tax revenues, more than 3 billion kuna. However, what we are building on is this economic growth and those who are investing in the state budget, which is the economy seems to be through the announced, more significant announced tax discharge, the lags of this budget and the rebalancing is the growth of personal consumption, the part of investment, but unfortunately most of the investment is from the public sector, and the real question is why private investment is missing and the answer lies in the fact that the tax burden on the economy is still too high and that in such an environment, the economy is difficult to decide on investment. It is also important to say that we are still highly import-dependent, which is the minister himself pointed out, and that this segment of VAT growth is unfortunately to the greatest extent on VAT which is paid into the state budget, on import goods and services, meaning there is no growth of domestic production of food and agricultural products, because we are in decline and in the production of milk and meat in cattle, pork and, unfortunately, in other segments of the processing industry. What is also the cornerstone of growth and positive trends is the withdrawal of funds from the EU, but unfortunately we also record a reduction from 17.2 to 15.2 and more than 12% less and over 2.2 billion kuna respectively. The reason is that it is complicated and public procurement, that the complaint is a lot, that everyone can complain about anything and that long-term tenders are, or complicated procedures. Now here I agree with the minister, that we are too often to blame ourselves because we are giving ourselves procedures that are more complicated than in some other EU countries in the environment and which surely our administration is holding back these processes, because the reason is that some units of local self-government after agreed projects have not withdrawn funds and have not completed the investment because certain permits, consents, etc. Well, that's what we've been warning, give strength to administrative capacity, we've allowed more employment, I think over 2,000 people are employed by state bodies in EU projects to increase efficiency, unfortunately we see that we haven't achieved that level and that more than 2 billion kunas will be less income in this year for these and such reasons. I also cite this example, which was announced last year, and this year realized in HINA 20 agencies due to administrative discharge and savings, especially by eliminating the advisory service, the Agriculture Land Agency, Croatian Agricultural Agency and a series of other state and public bodies for which I did not receive an inquiry, and today on committees, an explanation of how much savings there are, unfortunately there is no savings because we see that the cost of salaries and material costs on the ministries of growth took over these people of the ministry, and what was left, there was no better contact just through advisory services and other agencies with our OPGs and units of local self-government. Why am I saying that? So because I and myself in the HSS are most bothered by the fact that within those 2 billion, more than 500 million kunas are a reduction in the implementation of the rural development programme for those reasons, long tenders, slow decision-making, because of not communicating with local self-government units, with the OPGs, which is exactly the essence of the agency, we have reduced administrative capacity, contact with those who should withdraw funds, and on the other hand, there is a lack of funds and we see that part missing in the budget, and it is certainly necessary to say that there is also a reduction in the rebalancing of the agriculture ministry budget, and with the right to protest the representatives of the OPGs and agricultural producers that tomorrow at HS will present their dissatisfaction, because the only the agriculture ministry budget for the next year is reduced and by more than 5%. And it is not true that incentives and direct payments are never higher, they are, but it should be said openly that it is exclusively by means that we withdraw from the EU, that part of the national component, the national part we have never paid to our producers, it runs from 20% to 30%, and yesterday the representative of the agricultural chamber says is not 20%, that is, for a few years now, they have been practically damaged by one and a half of the budget by our agricultural producers for whom we want to be competitive with our neighbours, with agricultural producers from Bavaria, Austria, France, where that incentive is paid at 100%, 100% of the amount, for the sake of truth, it should be said that it is not. It should also be said that the very part we should have invested in producing and raising production in sensitive sectors has been decided by the government, neither is the government's decision being respected. Namely, the government's decision to produce sugar beet due to the liberalisation of the sugar market in order not to completely shut down and collapse into the Republic of Croatia, the government decided to pay 20 million kuna for this sector this year, and I think 7. Also for the sensitive part in livestock farming for the calf system, for goats, sheepmaking, the government's decision is intended to pay 8 million kuna, and only 500,000.00 and 7.5 million kunas are transferred in the following year, and there is no respected decision by the Government. And there is also no current Law on Defence against Fight, where the rebalancing reduces the separation of the Ministry of Agriculture 3 million kunas to defend against the fight because it is simply such a decision of the Minister and the State Hydrometeorological Institute that this system should be shut down, and then abolish the law although agricultural producers ask for the system to be established, that the funds are singled out, that the missiles are obtained and reagents are obtained and that there are at each station because you can't measure the efficiency of the system, and there are about 300 stations from which the Republic of Croatia operates on beaten clouds, that at 100 stations you have reagens on 50 rockets and on other nothing, so who can beat the Shaher tonight in Maximir? No coach, no game is played with half the team, and here we see that the wrong place is being saved, and that's three million kunas from the Ministry of Agriculture and I don't know how many others they didn't pay, and I think that we and I from HSS are going to make an amendment to get those funds back and get these resources because as long as the law is in force, we need to implement it. I would also like to mention the problem already mentioned here today, and this is a problem of pigmeat, and I have also proposed the amendment for this year to ensure for this sensitive sector an additional 5 million kuna, unfortunately this amendment has been rejected, and we now see that we have a regulation, order from 1.11. this year, to especially prevent African swine fever from entering the Republic, of course we need to raise safety measures and protect pigmeat production because only 30% of us have enough in pigmeat in the Republic and everything else we import and we need to protect it a little bit, but not over the back of animal owners and farm owners. Why were these sanitary measures, if already ordered, paid from the state budget of the veterinary and sanitary services, but again on the back of the agricultural producers, in order that one owner of the OPG who has a feeder and pig sold one pig must come to him, make a checkup and charge 180,00 kn that check, practically half the pig must be given to the veterinarian, believe everyone will shut down production and this little bit of what remains of the manufacturer will be extinguished. I would also point out here the problem of the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture which lacked funding from the budget. Why, if by law here in HS we have established a Croatian agricultural chamber then we need to create assumptions through funding that it can exist, they are still not defined who are members of the Croatian agricultural chamber, where the list of members, how to charge membership fees and how much goes from the state budget. According to this, we see that 0,00 kuna is going, obviously it is not the interest of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Government to have agricultural producers organised in the chamber, to be able to co-create the legislative framework, and also to rebalance the budget and budget and these measures that are not paid are then easier to pass because you do not have the pressure of farmers. But you will have the pressure of farmers because we see that only by strike in the Republic of Croatia can solve something. They were striked by healthcare professionals, nurses and technicians, strike here today teachers, law professors and we from HSS have given them support and it is embarrassing that there is no money to increase their coefficients, and we see surpluses in the state budget because through this increase 6% that we welcome should increase the wages to everyone in the public sector because they are embarrassingly small, but they remain the most paid sector with the same rank of VSS, the same quality of business. To them, this increase will bring 300, 350 kuna more salary, and to ministers as they say 1,200 kuna. So here's whether it's fair, you estimate they're saying it today, and I think it should be further highlighted and supported, and again, ask the Prime Minister and the Secretary-General to sit down at the table tomorrow and settle it, that children and parents don't suffer and that the education system goes forward. It is also mentioned here that the recovery of part of the debt in health care is 122 million kuna which is certainly good for the state to intervene because the county as founders of county and city hospitals cannot bear the cost. However, what are the health institutions? Why do I say that? So, for example, the Hospital of Slavonski Brod in Požega, Novi Gradiška, which is very good and that saves every kuna will be neglected and punished again for saving, and those who were wasteful will now receive 122 million kuna. So it would be good to see how these distributions go and that these hospitals that care about each kuna may not be forgotten. And what you would end up saying, one segment, a group of problems might call it di hidden Slavonia. Di hid Slavonia in this rebalancing because we see that in the budget is foreseen for the University of Slavonski Brod for this year 5 million kuna, spent zero kuna. Construction of Matija Amrus elementary school in Slavonski Brod for children with special needs of zero kuna is scheduled. I see 14 million kunas are planned next year for me to say hello, but I'm afraid again at the end of next year there will be zero kuna execution. We have already heard Ilocka's connecting road towards the highway today, but it's not just Ilocka on the highway, but it's a solution to Lipovac's traffic collapse and other villages in the area when truck traffic just shuts down the streets so that I can't even get out with working machines on the road. Of course, Babina Greda Hall and a series of other Slavonia projects. The Ministry of Agriculture itself for the Slavonia projects was 60 million kuna, now reduced to 10. And then with this dio hidden Slavonia I can end up with that Slavonia that you're to blame for and why you're to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168350	Thank you, too. We're done arguing on behalf of the clubs. So I'm opening an individual debate, the first colleague is Maras Gordan. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about budget rebalancing or changes and additions presented here by Minister Maric, some things can be very easily seen and analyzed. And the fact is that de facto spending is what the budget draws up and that has contributed to having at the level of the year incomes that are 1.4 billion kunas higher than they were planned, and on the other hand most of it comes from taxes on goods and services or VAT and consumption, what fellow Bulj was saying in his introductory section that a lot of people who went to the money sent here and spending is the one that draws the budget forward. What is very current and what should be noted here is the untruth that is being made by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, which is that there is not enough money for educators, for medics, for social workers and all those who do their jobs very hard and underpaid. You can see that from this rebalancing, meaning what they're announcing to us from the government, and what I've asked on some committees, because the figure barbat that the government can offer is 120 million kuna, or by increasing the base by 2% of the 6th month next year. And then I asked a very logical question from my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, and what are you going to rebalance, from which items are you going to get that 120 million kuna? Of course no one knows the answer. They say we can't answer that until it happens, until we see it, etc., which means it can also be 400 million kuna. Why 120, not 400? No one can say anything to that answer, and no one has offered that answer on any committee, and I have asked that question on two committees, on the Committee on Finance and on the Committee on Labour and Pensions. When you look here, the rebalancing is about 655 million kunas that are rebalanced by higher cost of staff. 655 million kuna, which means that the lie is what Prime Minister Plenkovic says, Minister Aladrovic and all those who participate in the debate with the unions that it is not possible. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 655 million kuna, how is it possible and not possible in 2020 more than 120? Because here politics and budget and putting lead over the finger, the ominous approach in the way we go to give so much maybe we can work it out, and we'll see, if we don't succeed it eventually will give it more than it is because an impressive number today was a protester on Mark's square, I don't remember when Mark's square was so full and I would say it all to the most valuable public workers in the Republic in the primary and high school system, there must have been 5,000 people here. And it is good that they sent a very strong message because they do not settle that the corrupt government that is able to spend on everything and everything, which is able to buy Bandic with 280 million kuna for APIS. Why don't you tell me why the state's buying APIS now? What's the point of that? 95% of APIS's income is from state and city, will the state make any money on it? 280 million kuna companies have a profit of 5 million kuna a year. So what's the point of buying APIS? Who needs that? Which is why we give Mayor Bandic 280 million kunas to patch up their holes and spend it on what things we don't give these money at the same time for primary and high school employees. It means that paraphrasing, HDZ, Minister Maric and Prime Minister Plenkovic is more important than 60 thousand employees in the most important part of our public service in primary and secondary schools. For what? So that, for example, fellow Boric can laugh for another year here for everyone, to raise their hands, to raise their hands for the budget, and therefore pay the state of 280 million kuna to Mayor Bandic. Because nothing in the APIS would change if the state didn't buy it, nothing. Everything would have remained the same as before. And on this side should give absolute support to all who seek justifiable what the Government does not give them, and that is that the teacher at a full-time primary school has barely six thousand kuna salaries, 6 thousand with 35 years of work experience in the class, is thinking now for what year he will retire he has 6 thousand kuna salaries. And that's what we need to talk about and why these people came here. And then some smart guy will come forward and say, "What are you not?" In 2013, you were shrinking. Yes, but in 2012, ladies and gentlemen, the revenue side of the budget was over 30 billion kunas less than today, 30 billion kunas, 30 billion kunas after HDZ left the devastationed cash register, after Sanader's mandate of the robberies that were happening at the time, which were still in our very effective judiciary when it came to HDZ after 12, 13 years, not that they didn't come to an end, but they didn't even come to the beginning. So on that side we see how Sesse works and similar judges who after being called by Mamic for a specific situation don't appear for two days at all. That's it, sir, that's the story, about how the HDZ state set it up. Here's the thing about the corrupt state is the story and the implementation and the changes to the budget are going on because if it wasn't for that kind of state, it wouldn't be my colleague from HDZ, it wouldn't be... Well, you're a little bit here, if you were more here, you'd probably learn... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the field, but you are paid by Croatian citizens to stand up for them [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you were here a little more often, you'd learn easier. [[Intruding Dončić: A colleague, replica, men, yellow, yellow bat is a replica.]] But here, two, three more times come and I'll be more ready. So it's very clear from that point of view, it's very clear that with 30 billion kunas more income than it was in 2012, in 2013, 4 hundred million kunas could be allocated to educators. It could've been separated. If it weren't for former companies from ministers who, when SDP left office, had revenues from the budget of 50, 60 million like the KING ICT and today had almost 200, had not been pumped by consultants in the case of Agrokor, would not have been leaking money on all sides and as far as Zagreb and all the strange, corrupt coalitions are going to come out of it, there would have been money and too much money for our teachers, nurses, social workers, officers and all those who work for paid jobs and very valuable and very hard work. And on this side of my colleague and colleague, I simply cannot believe that you paint Croatian citizens, to fool those who are watching us today by saying that you are doing the maximum, to give what you can, that it is impossible to give more than 120 million kuna when we see that in this rebalancing you are giving 655 million kuna more for 2019. So why can't it be done in 2020? So it's possible, it's possible, but priorities are segregated and completely guilty. Priorities are to endure a year in the chairs, that Plenkovic is chairman of the European Council, that he feels important and that the mayor of Bandic and him are brought together with HDZ in the GUP coalition in the city of Zagreb, which will allow a few phantom investors and outside, will probably get involved there as well as some such as the Šavoric adviser in Agrokor, who will also benefit domestically from making enormous money in the public space in the city of Zagreb, and this is the only interest both in this rebalance and tomorrow's debate on the budget and what is being done in the city assembly, the chips that have run over, all this is a corrupt game that needs to be stopped as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168352	We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague of Stazic, followed by a colleague of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168353	Revenues are promised for 1.34 billion kuna and that is good but I am interested in my colleague how you view this quite innovative method of collecting income through renting the Croatian Assembly. So this one Parliament suite that came after the state was turned into a land of waiters and maids, after they chased Djikic away, and kept Djakic, who was celebrated today by proposing an amendment that ended the day of the anti-fascist struggle as a state holiday. I am now interested in why they have not yet hired Jandrokovic to be their butler here, these tenants, and perhaps a fellow Reiner with his knight title and knight's armor to entertain the tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168354	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168355	Thank you very much. Before the time goes by, I'd be begging you, I don't know if it's possible without a proposal from the Rules of Procedure to do a debate, huh? Let's wait for the proposer to come back, and we'll continue. [[Intruder: Can't.]] Or one of the promoters. [[Intruder: Or one of the proposings.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168356	Short break Here's a short break of five minutes. [[Well, when he gets here, we'll keep going.]] At 15:30 we move on, at 15:30. It's 3:26 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues continue. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.28 HOURS]] The answer to the replica of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Absolutely curiosity is renting the assembly, but what Mr. Stazic said may not be impossible, that Jandrokovic here will be an assistant and help in the technical organisation, and that Reiner is guarding as a knight the one who is here in the hall. Of course, it's a bit of a joke, but with such things, I'm sorry we have to joke at all because it's a shame that the highest institution was rented and sort of apartmentized by the Croatian Parliament. Shameful, because of them we have a break that week, the Parliament won't work that week, ladies and gentlemen, so the EPP people can feast and entertain here. It's something that's simply not allowed and we should never work again in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168359	Thank you. Replica number two, Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168360	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Maras, I cannot agree with you that the coalition of Mr Plenkovic and Mr Bandic together with his 270 million kuna chips. 270 million kuna or 80 that's what we see, that's what's going to be for the sale of APIS. Just so we know, the budget is like the town of Koprivnica, I'm talking about the budget of the town of Koprivnica. I'm afraid it's much more, as we haven't been able to end the gray economy in Croatia for years, I'm afraid there are grey economies here and all sorts of things. But what will definitely suffer, and for many years it will be the city of Zagreb, the spatial planning of the city of Zagreb, the development of the city of Zagreb, and unlike other capitals of other EU countries that move, let's just say... it creates from the center. We will have public garages in the centre of Zagreb thanks to Mr Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168361	Thank you. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168362	Thank you very much. A colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, then the Zagreb and Zagreb women are aware of it every day. There's no more, there used to be rashawer in the morning, before work at three o'clock crowd four, now it's all day long. People can't get away from the crowd anywhere, just because of what you're saying. So instead of watching us unload the city center, watch the railroad get out, watch how we raise the railroad and make another one, I would say an avenue across the city to reduce the crowds, and there are no projects because it is neither the mayor of Bandic nor Prime Minister Plenkovic's interest. Their interest is for Plenkovic to stay in the prime minister's chair for another year or if he gets lucky for Mr Stier next year in the next 3rd or 4th month, he may jump in after the HDZ elections, and Bandic will last another year and a half as mayor and build this GUP that is criminal and which should be prevented at any cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168363	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168364	Let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168365	So, okay, please, stick to the time. Comrade Baričević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168366	Dear Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear colleague Maras, listening to all the points in this national parliament you are simply an expert in all areas, you have a solution to all the burning problems. And as those governments by the 1990s and those after 2000 and these last Milanovics so refreshed the economic fiscal and in every way the Republic of Croatia so that this increase pays teachers, police officers and is not some achievement of this current government because it simply came out of the good policy of the earlier SDP governments. And speaking as the heir to the Communist Corruption Party, that seems a little deplaced to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168367	Answer, come in, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168368	I think you've been in a party a lot more than I have. Don't talk in the game. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, I'm sure you were, so I wasn't at all. So here's an ex-member of the game attacking someone who wasn't in a party idea of this. How is that possible? It's only possible in HDZ. And Šipic and he were in the party. And no, he's too young, but Shuker was in the game. We all know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168369	My colleagues and colleagues, please. Comrade Šipić, colleague, colleague, reminder, you cannot do this please. We can't talk like that in Parliament, look at people looking at you, looking at all of us. Please go back to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168370	Otherwise another mistake, Mr. Baricevic, the Croatian National Assembly is not called this institution, it is called the Croatian Parliament. And what you said was called during a shameful episode of our 40s history. So I'm no expert on everything, but when I listen to you, I think I might be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168371	And the last replica of a colleague of the Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168372	Here, let's step away from these historical topics that are often dominated by the assembly, but here is a colleague Maras mentioned this recent meeting of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mayor of the City of Zagreb, so with these many projects mentioned there, the City of Zagreb should have lost some of its income due to tax reforms. Most of all, this refers in fact to these exemptions that will go to income tax primarily for people up to 30 years. The minister made it clear here in the assembly, and he reiterated on the Finance Committee that there will be no compensation for units of local self-government, but his boss, Prime Minister Plenkovic, after the same meeting, says, however, we will not provide compensation for the City of Zagreb, right. Well then obviously one rule will apply to the City of Zagreb, and the other rules will apply to the other units of local self-government in Croatia because we know that here is the Mayor Bandic and his list hold here most of the prime minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168373	Thank you, time. Here's your answer, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168374	Thank you very much. It's one of the most embarrassing agreements, I'm sure Prime Minister Davor Ivo Stier would never be. So, in some ways, a lot of HDZs are seen with hope in Davor Ivo next year to replace Prime Minister Plenkovic and not so corruptly continue the coalition with Mayor Bandic. Of course, I'm not a special fan of his political action, but I admit that he seems as a politician would hardly agree in that corrupt way with Bandic. So perhaps next year, if Prime Minister Plenkovic dares to call the HDZ elections, I am still betting that he will not ever want to vote in HDZ until the parliamentary elections pass, something in HDZ may change, and this corrupt octopus Bandic, Plenkovic, may change before the election. I don't know, we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168375	Thank you, colleague Maras. We continue with an individual debate next to our colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to try to go back to the budget rebalancing and if it wasn't for this pause now, with and with trade unions, it'd probably be time-consuming and the very composition and appearance of this budget rebalance that this is one purely technical rebalancing, because behind us has already been practically over 85% of the year, spent funds, but when you look at the revenue side, it's the result of certain macroeconomic movements. Because three taxes are growing, VAT is growing, excise duty increases and profit increases. They are simply the result of some movement, the result of some of the moves that the government has taken, the result of the growth of the average wage, the result of the income available, and the end of the tourist season. And that's the revenue side. So it's what it is, but it's downgraded this budget rebalance actually should serve us as a quality basis for what's coming to us tomorrow. And what happens on the expense side? So we have on the spending side practically three structural problems that have plagued all previous governments regardless of which political option it belonged to. However, all these governments have had these problems in the last 20 years. They had a pay problem, whether this rebalancing ensures an increase in wages, this salary increase is based on some agreements and agreements signed before and simply at the end of the year lacks money and should provide this with funds for wages. However, colleagues and colleagues, I now ask all of us here one question. Do you really think that wages and the problem will be paid in future times will not be discussed if we do not implement structural reforms? If we don't finally say that the public and state administration must be such that they can have and as far as employees and costs are concerned, we're simply talking about some things before we define what we need. And we, unfortunately, at the state administration, are still paying for a formality, not things to work and that's a structural problem. No matter who talked, various governments were in different times, so I said in the last 30 years and increased and reduced wages. Why? Well, if you had a private company, would you pay more than that company makes, than you can pay your employee, so who wouldn't keep their employee? So you just have to pull certain things. And look, the mass of funds over the past 4 years has grown 15%, and GDP has grown by about 11%, so the government has provided practically four percentage points more money for wage growth than GDP is growth of gross domestic product. And we can be hitting on each other here today anyway, but if we don't solve it as a real structural problem then we're going to have a problem tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and no matter what political option is in power and there's no need for us to fight over who took anything, who added anything. It's just that we just have to have a subconscious sometimes that we've made some moves in some times, because it's simply not according to the grades and estimates at the time could work differently. Another problem, health care. Look fascinatingly there was a debate 10th ago, actually a week ago there was a debate about the confidence of Minister Kujundzic. So much bile, so many ugly words, I've never heard a word on behalf of a club today about HZZO's financial plan. I'd like to beg nicely, Mr. Chairman, that the gentlemen do not receive. So, on the financial plan, I repeat on the financial plan of the HZZO today, no one was talking. [[You're right, sir, please, you have a replica, right? Don't throw it away and don't get up, you've got a yellow tile ccc and that's it. Thank you.]] However, this plan is very interesting, its amount is nominally very interesting and now I'm asking myself, I'm being represented, and as a former minister, it's asking one question, do we methodologically record that health care properly. We used to have those famous... so if it went through them, it was counted as a deficit, but definitely that healthcare is despite the increase in contributions of 1.5% points, again in problems and again we can say that it is a structural problem but the structural problem of Croatian citizens who fill and the economy, which fill the state budget, not us here, we as their representatives should react with legal changes to solve this structural problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third thing, pensions, so if you look at the rebalancing of the state budget, she'll see that a significant portion of the amount of the surplus income achieved is going to increase pensions. Why? Because certain parameters based on the indexation of pensions are positive, quality and good and the basis of this indexation was greater than the amount that the government planned when it brought the budget and the normal thing to the government to provide additional funds to pay off those pensions. Fourth thing, revenue and expenditure, EU funds, from European funds. Look, the government's not running programs, the programs are being run by all the stakeholders of our society. Both entrepreneurs and units of local and regional self-government are also conducting tenders, etc. You can't get sheep if you haven't finished the job, if you haven't prepared everything and the result is seen on the income and expenditure side but colleagues on the other side of the assembly, you can't say that this amount wasn't even higher in your time. So it's a Croatian problem. So instead of focusing on all the Croatian potentials that we have in both the consulting houses and all of them for making quality programmes for a better withdrawal of European funds, we are hitting on what, who and how, but with what, who and how and when, we will never get into a situation to make this results more quality. Look, if we had discussed this budget rebalancing here today, which is a pure technique, then probably our debate about tomorrow's budget would be more of a quality one, why? Because this is the starting basis for those fiscal projections that the government made in the 7th month, for making a budget for 2020, but we are discussing how we are discussing, we are throwing hard words at each other instead of going with arguments, why? Well, because no matter if anyone spoke here or at any press or in the government, it's written down what anyone said. And it remains written down when someone cut their wages, why they were cut down, when someone didn't pay off Christmas cards, regresses, why he didn't pay it off, but probably he was the one who was responsible for running the country, he probably had reasons for that decision. Just as the government is based on some projections and we will talk more about it tomorrow, it proposed to the unions to resolve the increase in their incomes in 2020. Simply based on certain projections of movement, the government has offered something. What do we got? Do we have on the other hand a positive answer and a desire to talk? Are we ready to discuss how and how to help local self-government units... improves in positions on the revenue and expenditure side as regards the withdrawal of funds from the EU? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, that's not what we're discussing. And there are a lot of colleagues who have a lot of experience on this job and every unit is different regardless of what political option is on it because if you don't do something, if you're going to step on the mud, the SDPs and the HDZs and the MOSTs and everyone else, simply that mud is going to be there, but if you're going to pave the way for it, everyone's going to step on it, but we're going to make sure that we get what we just go somewhere else if we don't pull because look, at the end of the year, we don't ask her out, you haven't pulled this much, so we're going to cut your payment share. We have to pay our share and it depends on us how ready we are and how able we are to withdraw funds. So colleagues and colleagues, I sincerely expected, although unfortunately this is not the case, but we have the kind of debate that we have today, that we will make one quality preparation for tomorrow's budget debate. Obviously, tomorrow the same story will be told again, but I repeat, there are a lot of people here who have been in different positions in power, they have to make certain decisions, so there's an old one, never tell and do what someone doesn't want to do to you because if it hurts and bothers you, then it bothers the other. I will personally support this rebalancing proposal as a quality basis for budgeting for 2020, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168377	I thank Mr. Shuker. We have eight replicas in your debate, first colleague Maras, after him, colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168378	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, so here's a little bit, you've been calling out arguments and here's an argument, so you know the same thing about 2012, the revenue side of the budget is over 30 billion kuna today, and it's normal that it can't be the same situation then and now and it can't be called what you're doing then as if the position is the same today as it is in 2012, because it's not, 30 billion kuna is income. And the other thing, there's no more than 120 million for educators and in this rebalancing, we see that on employee spending, there's been a rebalance of 655 million kuna. So how in 2019 did we rebalance 655 and in 2020 we can't do more than 120? So these are arguments that any normal person would ask why, how and why you're teasing us, why aren't you telling the truth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168379	Thank you, answer, here's your colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168380	Comrade Maras, if a man had now responded to you what you had set, then you would have had to go analyticalally through the full revenue side of the budget, and you as a former minister should know it anyway, and then you would know why something bigger, the second thing, in 2012, you had no income from the EU because we were not a member, so take it from that base only, 14 billion less revenue. The second thing, see if I told you that from 2016 to 2019, the mass of salary funds has increased by 4 billion kuna, some 700 million kuna has increased the weight of funds for material costs, see that pension expenditures have gone to 4 billion kuna, look at some social issues, here's 10 billion in an hour, 10 billion, and when you take those 14 billion that you didn't have from the EU, you've only got 600 more to discuss, only 600 that we can discuss with our colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168381	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Bulj, followed by his colleague Stazic, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168382	Thank you very much. You say you're an accountant. The former minister explained all the items, however, which cannot be answered realistically and honestly, as you comment that the Republic of Croatia in 2018 was 5% of GDP, any funds from abroad from our people, it was not in time, in Ireland when it was the worst, but our farmers from fertile Slavonia now go to Ireland to plant a kumpir which is much less fertile than Slavonia, 5 billion kuna, has been evicted everything and that is not what we could talk about the budget at all, and the minister knows very well, he didn't even tell the truth when he was giving financial reports here, he said billions of EUR, EUR 2.4 billion comes from the people that the government has sought out, has gone through VAT, consumption, economic growth, calls, and they destroyed agriculture and the economy, the only thing regulated by the government. Mr. Vujčić of the CNB buys an apartment [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]] At a good price. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168383	...end the thought. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168384	My colleague Bulj, I am, unlike you, growing up on those foreign stamps because my late father spent 35 years, and in those leads from abroad that you're talking about is also a pension from my mother that she inherited from my late father. Therefore, about these signs and sufferings and the hard crust of bread that has been achieved by the gasterbitters, I think I know a lot more than you do. And so, you can talk to someone else, but I'm from a neighborhood where there's no house where two, three of them didn't go here in the '60s, so it's definitely true... So give me a nice one, please... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168385	Please don't throw it away, you have a replica, you're going to replicate, you're going to replicate, you're going to do it slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168386	So, I totally understand you, but you have to know one thing, what you're saying, what you're saying isn't the income of the state budget, not the receipts of the state budget, so that's the fact, that when people get that money, do they put it on savings or spend it, then the taxes they pay through that spending are the income of the state budget, but when you take it and spend it all, it's not as much as you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168387	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Mr. Bulj came forward. Comrade Bulj has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168388	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Shuker was missing three, injured by an officer. 238, because he simply tells me how my people lived and what they went through, I'm not telling you, I'm telling you the truth that it's worse now than in the time of the Titos of Yugoslavia, more GDP funding in GDP comes from abroad than when it was in the '60s the same policy, just not yet the government that you're defending fellow Schuker, organized trains for Germany, and that's all that's missing, that planial eviction [[Intruder: Thank you]] And that through the strings [[Intruder: Thank you]] money comes to the Republic of Croatia [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] 5% of GDP [[Intruder: colleague Bulj]] [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168389	So, you broke the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning, we continue with the replicas, colleague Stazic, 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168390	You're telling your colleague Shuker there's a Croatian problem that's always the same no matter what government is here. Yeah, there's a Croatian problem, I'll tell you what it is. While you were the finance minister in the most corrupt government in the history of the Republic of Croatia, that's the Sanader government, you're in charge of 62 billion kuna, 4 g. It's 1460 days, you owe the Republic of Croatia a day for 42.5 million kunas and Saturdays and Sundays and Christmases and Easters and working days and holidays, every day 42.5 million kunas. That while you are talking about the Croatian problem, the Republic of Croatia has a problem, a big problem, there is a problem when it is managed by the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168391	Comrade Shucker, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168392	This is called math from Brijuni, mathematics from Brijuni. Comrade Stazic, the two of us have been here for a long time in this assembly, first I was Minister of Finance for the 7th year, in the 7th year. When you add up all the deficits, they're not over 30 billion, so I don't know how I could have owed 62, but I say math from Brijuni is great if an ordinary Croatian citizen dreams of seeing Brijuni, and someone enjoys 2 months for 7.00 kn per day, it's mathematics from Brijuni, the result of mathematics from Brijuni is what his colleague Stazic said. My fellow Stazic, how you sow so much will you reap.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168393	Continuing replica, next fellow Lalovac, please welcome colleague Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker, you were talking about actually increasing wages and in relation to the private sector, and there you can agree with you because, you yourself said public sector wages are growing 18%, in the economy certainly twice as much, and that's the part that was similar and the pressures are always much stronger on public finances than in the real sector, and finally when it comes to recession, then it shows that one bad instrument, so absolutely no matter how strong the public sector pay pressures are today, it should be said that the economy is still a real sector that fills that private budget, still very much lagging behind. Thank you very much. And I think that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168395	Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168396	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Lalovac, thank you for the replica, this is just proof that people who know what they're talking about can talk about without offense and without being thrown away and people who are aware of what it means to secure wages and what it means to secure pensions, so let's talk about it this way and thank you for the replica of my colleague Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168397	The next replica of his counterpart, Grmoja, followed by his counterpart, Grmoje Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168398	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to get involved in this debate, but I have to respond to my colleague Shuker's untruths, he said that during the debate on the impeachment of Minister Kujundzic, there were no concrete details, which is not true, I don't know how much he was present at all in the debate, that there was any hitting under the belt, it was not at all, except at the end by the minister towards the opposition. True, part of the opposition MPs eventually accused the minister of war desertion and enrolment in the university instead of the Croatian defender's child. It happened at the very end of The Living Wall, it was the only blows under the belt during the debate that lasted 9 hours and more. There were specific problems in the Croatian health system so that what you said did not stand at all and it is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168399	Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168400	Well, my colleague Grumoja, I'm truly sorry that you're replicating it this way. So I said something else entirely. And you obviously, don't be angry, you didn't understand the point I wanted to say. So I said that today, on a proposal to rebalance the state budget, we have a proposal to rebalance HZZO's plan. I always stick to the agenda, and I said I didn't hear anyone talk about that plan today, about that. And I just mentioned on the way to the debate that was a week ago. So, I was going to, my colleague Grumoja, just to encourage us all, when we talk about health care to stick to this document, look, I'm here, you can read it in the documents, you can convince us when HZO is separated from the treasure, no problem, and already some bank deals have been arranged, everything will be great. Here, HZO isolated from the treasury, come on now you take it now I don't know which financial expert so let him sum you up how much health care costs. You have a few billion at the Ministry of Health, you have a HZZO fund that's balanced, and at the same time you're talking about debts. So my intensity is... [[Thank you. Thank you.]] We're talking about it. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168401	A fellow Shuker. Comrade Shuker, thank you. Apology, my colleague Misic, and my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168402	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Shucker, as far as I can see in this House, no one pays a salary, here, because I'm giving so I can say something on that subject, and they're getting all the salaries from the state, of course. If the budget is stabilised, if the investment is growing, private, means the government's trust is regained, if the untaxable 7 thousand kuna per worker in this government is passed, which is very important for one entrepreneur, you don't understand it, which means, and next year it's supposed to be 14, if 3 million so far, the craftsman can have, then he has to go into the system of one other bookkeeping, next year 7 million. You don't understand what it means to an entrepreneur. Very important, very many things you've done, I hope next year will still be disbursed by the private, of course, the real sector is not yet covered as much as you get paid through the state budget. I personally think you're going the right way and I congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168403	Thank you. So we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168404	Dear Vice-President, since HS MP fellow Misic admitted to breaking the law because, as a parliamentary representative, he should not pay the salaries, I do not know what this is about. I would ask the competent institutions to respond to Mr. Misic and to see if he is in some conflict of interest, what is it about, how he as a parliamentary representative pays the wages and what is even going on here, whether he is in some gray or not God gives the black zone and what is it about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168405	Thank you. Thank you. So, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you get a warning, and now you go and you get a warning, we can do it by morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168406	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sorry, Grmoy. I've been an entrepreneur for 40 years. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168407	So also... Use the time, use the time of the breach of the Rules of Procedure as... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'm also giving you a warning. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So, here you go, you have the right to an answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168408	Thank you very much. A fellow mouse. I'm in the context of these intense demands, support, etc. Pulled one parallel between the private sector and those that... State services and public services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who are getting a job from the state, so to speak, and I just wanted to say that the government as an employer and ministers is also getting worse, every opportunity for their workers to pay as much as they can, just as a private employer does. A private employer if he gives more money than he earns, very quickly in bankruptcy, no mercy on him. And where's the state? In the deficit, he has to be in debt, then we're going to hit on him again as much as anyone's in charge and as much as anyone's given. And you take what salaries are in the Republic of Croatia, how much we pay for pensions, how much we spend on the material costs of employees in state and public services, then you'll see that all the funds we've collected from VAT and excise duties are very hard to cover.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168409	Thank you. Next is counterpart Boric, followed by fellow Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168410	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker. I'm replicating to the part where you said who was paying for it. So in comparison with some who spoke here today, and were ministers of this government, so the fundamental difference is that they paid less than they inherited in 2011 to everyone in the public sector, so they cut salaries, especially to teachers, teachers, Maras raised hands for it, and it was always neat in the government, and nothing bothered him at that time. We heard today an explanation that they didn't know anything, that they didn't know and that they'd always had shortages, i.e. Their deficit grew from year to year until the job was unbearable. And of course, today we listen to all of their knowledge of how they can or would better deploy and find something for everyone. But they've always done it that way. This government is working towards everyone better and this is the fundamental difference that citizens must hear today because this has now gone into debate, not about figures and this one, but political debate. It means the difference between less and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168411	Thank you. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168412	Good luck, fellow Boric, there's an archive. The archives of HS, the archives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and there are documents in that archive that the government has made that decision and I don't think there's any need for us to argue here like this. But what the public service employees felt, felt that they were reduced coefficients, felt that they had lost their Christmas card, had no regression. Why? Because at that point, the government estimated because it was in excessive deficit measures, it had macroeconomic imbalances and therefore simply could not pay off because they had given the EU Commission certain limits in which they could move, and since they had such experience, it was logical for them to understand today this government in which position it is located, in which frameworks it moves. And that's why today I tried to reason with my debate in this way so that we could all just be aware of the problems, the facts and the things we have that we can pay. But I say some forget that people were cut off from things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168413	Thank you. Next is counterpart Stier, followed by the last replica of counterpart Klaric. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168414	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have had a very open, reasoned debate, she has not been scrupulous, you have also warned of which, which problems, are structural problems waiting for us who is in power and you have actually given one argument out of your debate that clearly shows that the state apparatus itself is not and cannot be the point, that when we speak for example. We must bear in mind the situation and in the real sector, we must bear in mind how much productivity is growing, we must bear in mind a series of these elements that are, of course, waiting for us and which can only be dealt with by a serious responsible policy, and not by passwords. This is how you discussed it, and I am glad that my colleague Lalovec has accepted such an argument and I repeat, only one responsible policy can solve these problems, not the parolees.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168415	Thank you. Here's an answer to my colleague Shuker's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168416	Thank you very much. Only colleague Stier I fear that after you and my praises will have problems within his club, but the profession is a profession, the fact is a fact and you said well, we simply must be aware of how many Croatian economies and how many Croatian citizens can. But we also need to be aware that we have a public sector that has been such an unchanged sector for almost 30 years and we have to decide what we want and when we decide what we want, then we have to be aware that it costs so much and that we pay it out of the state budget. And how we're going to raise funds, and we're going to have to push them if we decide on something, but in a way that we're constantly pumping money, and we're not willing to change some things, which is what's not good because we still can't be happy and satisfied that we as citizens have to break 5 or 10 tents to get one confirmation. So these are the structural reforms that everyone is talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168417	Thank you. The last replica of a colleague, Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168418	Dear fellow Shucker, here's what he said and fellow Stier is actually a pleasure to listen to you, so here's a replica of a colleague of Lalovec, people who talk about the subject and people who know what they're saying. Unlike previous speakers, I think of what to do when people have no argument against this budget rebalancing, and they have no courage to admit that this government is doing well, that huge results have been achieved, European resources are attracted, many projects are launched, then the only way of resisting such a thing is to talk about the City of Zagreb, about some kind of great corruption and the great negatives of imagination and to create in public a picture of how nothing is wrong. This government, this ministry, this budget rebalance is an extremely good basis for next year's budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168419	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168420	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I would have been happier if we had discussed today when we were talking about local self-government units that the town of Bakar managed to build a very successful zone or let's say we moved to the other side of the assembly, to say that the local unit of fellow Matjanana succeeded, successful in withdrawing funds. And I'm going to put it plainly, fellow Mateo is not this failure it's simply a fact because you simply need to appreciate everything that someone has done well and use his experience as it has come to this. And when we start thinking and arguing like that, then we won't fight like this the way we fight. And our citizens, I tell you, mud is equal to everything, asphalt is equal to everything and I sincerely hope that the debates will return to some level as they once were and that we will discuss the real problems of our citizens, aware of the facts and possibilities of state and local budgets, and also aware of the fact that EU funds are something that is the main trigger for investment in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168421	Thank you, Comrade Shuker. We continue with an individual debate since this was the last replica. Next is counterpart Boris Josip. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168422	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates, so here's something I want to say about this draft budget rebalance for 2019 and the budget law because obviously that we have to turn to a new trend here means since we've been here for the third year in a row, we already have some experience when it comes to rebalancing, when it comes to the budget. We know how colleagues on our right will react to all the good that is happening in the country, and today it is again by not knowing which times came out, because in some ways we have to compare so that our citizens who are watching this because they see it, I guess in direct transmission, understand the differences between what is offered as some option in the future and what we have now. Well, speaking of rebalancing, let's just say that while Mr. Maras was a minister that the rebalancings went twice a year, necessarily twice a year because when the budget was being passed at the end of the year, he was always wrong, so they'd be fixing it in three or four months, and then at 11 they'd settle everything because they didn't have a constant. What was that constant? This is the tax policy that was set up, and they simply changed tax laws 50 times a year, several times to create riots in such a system, and of course such a mess could not have been well reflected in the budgets themselves, and at the end of the year it would have been that second rebalance where something would have calmed down, but mostly the budgets ended up in major deficits and they experienced it as a great success. It didn't matter at the time whether the minister was sitting here in the assembly or not but simply said it was negative, how bad it was actually good for all Croatian citizens. It wasn't then that Marasa, a colleague of Maras, cared whether teachers and teachers were getting a lower salary for which he raised his hand. He's been taking care of them all day and who's to blame him for it. When it was to show, he didn't know how to show and today he's taking us to some kind of choice as citizens, not politicians. That I have to choose between the finance minister and what he knows as Zdravko Maric and Gordan Maras as some former minister of some imaginary ministry for him and what he knows, so that's an easy choice. We do not need to worry at all about who the citizens would raise or give up or round up. So that's the difference because he always says, citizens need to know that. And they need to know that difference because when we look at what it says here in the text section and in numbers, it's no problem to catch up with one number and ten minutes to talk about it. But what they caught today, they say you don't have for teachers and teachers. It's not true, let's look at the rebalancing against whom they are, so we'll indicate the figures against which they are, and God damn it protects the interests of those and those. Just look at the division, I don't know the Ministry of Science and Education, expenditure on employees 304 million more just in rebalancing, not at the level of the year. They say you're not worried at all. What did they look like? It was 500 million less on the rebalancing and they said it was great, which is what we should vote for. And of course fellow Stazic would have spent it here as vice president, it was voted. It didn't matter because they're the ones who know everything and don't know anything. And today they apologize to us that they knew nothing and that they were constantly negative numbers. And that's why I keep saying, we had a system where there were 100 negative numbers and one maybe positive, and then they were all hunting for this one and saying that it was super this one positive. Today when you have 100 good numbers they're looking for one that would be negative and they've been discussing it all day, and there's not one of them, it's gone. And we just have to outrun ourselves politically here because I can't answer, I don't know about GDP growth for the first 6 months, 3.1%. Let's think of them, 12 quarter minus, just three full years, minus. And I don't know, Mr. Greek, who was then an on-call optimist, today he's on duty pessimist, and he's saying that even the fall is actually growth, just so we don't understand it. You understand. And we had to deal with it here, no, until the citizens of a few five, six times simply sent them into conflict between the HDZ SDP and some kind of opposition. Well, then we hear, I don't know if it's good if we've charged the citizens in 6.3 billion in three years. If VAT revenues are growing, I don't know 2.2 billion, if I don't know 14.7 billion more revenue from European aid funds, when they were, well, that was a billion or two billion kuna. They've missed two years of membership to do anything at all, nothing to call us today to almost 70% of the contract of all funds. That citizens need to know if these people are again some new option that's being offered, says everything that was before you delete, we weren't you and choose us again if we've learned something. We hear, I don't know, about the pensions of 850 million more just in rebalancing. They say we're against it, they're against the pensioners again, but they co-ordinate without a problem with a party that represents the pensioners. So where's the logic, where's something that's rational? So they're against getting employees and I don't know nearly 500 million more, so they're against it, I don't know that the social benefits are going up by 176 million, they're against it. But tomorrow on the street they're the first protectors of all the groups, the first to jump right out depends on what's popular. If they feel that they are not going to show up either to give birth benefits or extra maternity leave rises by 41 million kuna. And they're against it, and that's why they're going to vote against this minister's budget. You can tell them what you want, and they're against, they're already up front... they don't need to read what it says here. That's why they don't want to support your budget, but tomorrow they'll say if we were for you and the citizens have to understand because who are they or what they were doing? Well, they left us an oil company with 4.5 billion guarantees, and it's worth it without the old ones, so let's say crisis taxes. It passed us all as if nothing had happened, as if we had paid 500 kuna. No one got hurt in all this, no one in the public service, and I don't know in any segment that the state pays for. Someone made that happen. And they say, such a minister should be replaced because they were changing theirs on tape. A little bit, a little one would go. And now that we're further reducing some of our deficits through rebalancing, when we increase revenues and reduce the expenditure side, they say we're against it. So is it the task of a politician to be against something that benefits all citizens from, purely from party or party initiatives? Probably yeah? It's probably manual for them. The public debt that they have raised from 60% to 84% of GDP is reducing, we now see an additional 3.5% point this year. What do they say? We're against it. They didn't care. 70 billion more debts, when you ask them what you've been doing with that money, there's no answer. They don't even know where they spent it. At the end of the term, they said that the famous Plan 21 did not exist at all, that it was an abstraction with which they wanted to win the elections, deceive the citizens and that what they were supposed to do was not really working and that they knew nothing. And who's talking to us here? A minister who had his own elevator. Do you have an elevator in the ministry just for you? He had his own elevator, traveled the world, Las Vegas, here comes my colleague, Djujic, who's been spending his time here every day, and I have to listen to him give us lessons about what the minister needs to do. [[Intruding Djujic: Las Vegas.]] You don't do anything, and that's why he's mad at you, and he won't support you either because I'm going to answer that, but the facts are also when you listen today I say here we have to make it clear to the citizens between which they have a choice not if we have to choose tomorrow, whether between this kind of RH that's progressing, which economically has positive flows, which is also in the fiscal part of a great success or those who knew everything, but never knew when they were in power, they always know the most when they're in opposition and simply want to make a black chronicle out of this country, but we won't let them because this country is much more valuable and better than they think of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168423	We have five replicas, first colleague Maras, after him, colleague Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168424	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, I have to admit, I delayed one meeting to listen to your debate and I didn't regret it, it was one really concise, professional, political one of the strongest discussions I've heard, I even think I've taken a transcript to read it a few more times and to share it at the Faculty of Political Sciences, that people, students there, see what kind of advocate should be, every honor, excellent debate, we're really impressed, I see that people still can't reach themselves as much as it was. If we could give you all your time to discuss it for us, believe me, we'd give you because it's a guarantee... Is that the same thing to you? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Really amazing, it's a guarantee that HDZ will do really well in the election. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here, talk as much as you can, Boric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168425	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168426	Comrade Maras, this one, let's call it sarcasm is actually the expression of one infirmity, so when you face the fact that you had your elevator in the ministry that only you could drive up and down, it's negative for you, and you can't stand it, and we always have to watch how we talk to you, we can't like you because you get angry or get out of here, so it means it's kind of our motive to work here that we always think about what we're talking about because you get angry and you keep getting hurt by the Rules, but you haven't denied me in anything, and I'm glad that you liked my speech, I've seen my colleague Bulja, he's listened carefully, we just had to do one thing, let's say that, the difference between those who are now offered and those who are in power to understand who are now people or citizens who are offering it to the other side, and when they had the opportunity to know nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168427	Before the next replica, colleague Maras has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168428	Thank you very much. He hurt fellow Boric in 238, although, as he would say, it was hard for me to say, but he hurt, so he wasn't telling the truth about me, no matter what fascinated me like ancient Greek speakers, no, so Aristotle is not, not knee-deep Boric, you're talking so well, so you'll be quoted for centuries behind us, so I'm honored to be serving with you in HS, here. That's what I'm gonna tell my grandkids. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I served with Boris. [[Agreement: A colleague, a colleague of Maras]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168429	Comrade Maras, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica, I give you a warning, this is your third warning, so I take away your word further in the debate... 236. You've abused the violation of your colleague Maras's Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168430	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, you have therefore made a good point in your debate that your opposition colleagues know best when they are in opposition, and you know why? Because they're not responsible for anything then, they can bang at everything, and we're from this debate right now, and they're having a hard time talking about what's written in the budget's rebalancing, and then you can't call it, that you can't bang at the successes of this government, and they're just doing it because it's hard to admit that this government has raised salaries, raised pensions, raised social benefits, maternity benefits, it's hard to recognize it all as the successes of this government after all the failures of their government, and so I wouldn't say that this debate of theirs today is even political but political, and it would be much better, of course, that we can talk here in an argument. Thank you. [[Intruder: My colleagues Jelkovac Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168431	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168432	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, and that's why we're here to say what should make a difference, so we'll go to the teacher and the professor. For their time these wages fell down by about 10% and there was no shame in telling them gentlemen you have to take such lower salaries even though there were strikes and more successful and unsuccessful etc., etc. When this government says, when the minister says that at 3. By raising the base by 18.3% that salary does not grow annually, but monthly, so when we multiply it by 12 months, so that turns out to be at least two more salaries than it was in 2016, then we have to listen to them say that we don't have 100 million kuna to give them for some new demands. It's not true, they're lying, but the negotiation process has to go between the government and the unions to me in the right direction, we're not doing what they've been doing, to the lower, but to more and of course there are objections, which is now given That we're trying to satisfy what we can. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Boric]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168433	Thank you. Next is colleague Stazic, please welcome colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168434	I admire you fellow Boric, you have been saying the same thing for years and you are not bored at all. You're saying everything that was to be forgotten, if only you could forget it, if you could forget that you were a state secretary in the most corrupt government of Ivo Sanader, when you were defending this government just as harshly as you are today defending this government together with your colleague Shucker, the party now being tried for robbery again. You say HDZ knows, the opposition doesn't know, that you know how to steal far more than anyone in this country can ever learn and you're judged for it, you're judged for it, and you're not embarrassed to say what you're saying after all, but I think Sanader chose the wrong lawyer, he should have taken you because the way you're saying it here in HS and how [[Intruder: Thank you...]] You're defending the gentlemen. That's what you should admire. [[Intruder:...kolea Stazic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168435	Thank you, colleague Boric, for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168436	Thank you, dear fellow Stazic, I do not admire you. And I didn't say we shouldn't forget. I said we shouldn't forget. That's a big difference. That's why I remind the citizens of who Mr. Nenad Stazic was and who was the vice president of HS. We heard that it used to be in Brijuni for the amount of residence tax. And that was your right, and you took advantage of it. But the fact that you're trying to connect each and every one of us here with one person, and you're running away from when he's trying to connect you to a person, like what's a lady? who is now being tried from Sisak-Moslavina County, then you say, "No, no, it's not mine." That's the difference. As is the difference that some works pass, when it comes to a party other than everyone, and when some other parties, everything is seen. That's why I asked your president today. But there's no answer. Like the other one who has character or character, so let them answer those questions. that we know who we're dealing with. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168437	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168438	I just can't believe you said your colleague Maras was a minister. I had my own elevator for myself. You and I were here in the Parliament during Milanovic's government, and we heard countless times about the sudden need to monetize the highway, we heard about it, and in the end this happened that they were the poorest ones even more povertyed by taking down the status of the mountain-mounted area in Gorski Kotar. The budget of the state was practically nothing, these cities and municipalities ran out of 50 million kuna. And here we're hearing about how this government isn't working because there's nothing wrong here, and by budget rebalance we're talking about surpluses.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168439	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168440	My colleague Klaric, this is ours, I say a day-to-day fight, an attempt to overcome served lies with truth or arguments on the other hand. And for that elevator I've heard from employees who worked in that ministry, so, even though he had it, he probably gave himself such a right to travel through at least that building and to convince himself that he was a good minister. He closed about 50 grand in trades in his term, and he was in charge of them and the only law he defended here, brought to the Parliament, was the Law on funeral activities. Who we're having problems with today, we're local, we're having a hard time dealing with things, but we're sort of working things out. You understand? He closed it himself, so he almost killed 50 grand of crafts, right? And he passed the Law on Funeral Activities and left one building unfinished, still standing here in Zagreb that was supposed to serve only something he knows and today we have to deal with it Who knows or doesn't know. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168441	Thank you, fellow Boric. Last line, Comrade Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168442	Comrade Boric, colleagues on the other side of the assembly when they speak, then 4 billion of them are not much. It has gone so far to Uljanik, but very interesting that these guarantees are 3 years after no guarantee in the Republic of Croatia has been issued and 4 billion have gone into the wind and no one is talking about it, as well as 500 million for which workers today pay 3. Maya and that's all honesty, the image of honesty. But hitting on others, it's genius and with such ease that it's sweet. But I repeat, fellow Boric, we're talking 100th and a fewth of a millionth of a kuna here, and 4 billion have been swallowed by the Oil. Who gave them the guarantees? How this suddenly began to give guarantees to shipyards, if spoken, Milanovic said, we have restructured Croatian shipbuilding, 10 billion restructuring costs to the 2010/2011 deficit. And then he boasts that they did something, and then they do what they did again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] done. [[Thank you. Replication response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168443	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168444	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. Obviously and we can't do it this way, it might not be best to talk about how bad they were, but citizens have to see what we have on the other hand and what they did because some of them are now candidates to be presidents of the state. You're the one who beat us up. You say 4.5 billion isn't too much. 70 of them weren't much. There was nothing wrong with them, 70 because they were in charge and they didn't know where they spent it, they mostly serviced the deficits, probably spending in all ways, without even a stronger infrastructure project. Let's just think about monetizing the highway. For three years, it was talked about, and it dropped in 30 seconds. In 30 seconds at the government, we said here, we threw 10 million and more into the wind, and you're looking forward to it. And today we see that it can work in a completely different way. That's the difference we have to warn citizens about to understand why they should vote for such a government. And why don't you vote for people who don't understand? What's their job? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168445	Your time is up. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is my colleague Bulj Miro, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168446	Thank you very much. Here, after this speech which is epic, the trail leaving behind after I am a parliamentary representative and coming from rural areas is my duty to speak... The speeches and these speeches, these praises of the minister, literally came to me to withdraw this debate as convincing as it was, how effective it was, if he didn't know whether to throw up or never to enter this assembly again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The real world isn't like that. The simple reality that we come from isn't like that. But we can go for 1001 reasons. The first is the reason I've been mentioning all day on the boards, the ministers weren't, they were your co-workers, and you answered me in part, you avoided that answer. The fact that in the Republic of Croatia 5% of GDP is foreign. That's what I'm gonna say again. That's not how it was, not one EU country. In Ireland, when there was the biggest emigration, there wasn't so much on the basis of clues. And that's a fact. 2.4 billion euros on the basis of foreign remittances. Instead of our farmers processing the Sinj field, the Slavonic plain, for our cattlemen to guard, they went to Ireland, and our much more fertile Slavonia than Ireland. 5% of GDP comes from our people. I told the Veterans Committee today after the secretary's praises that everything was neat and big plans I told my colleagues in the Veterans Committee that the situation was more than critical. In Slovenia, 1% of the funds are coming to GDP. And says the secretary doesn't have anything to do with our budget and our rebalance. It's not true, it's a lie, that money that comes here, that money that comes here, it's, it's very easy for you on the boards to unearthed and the key problem is that the policies of this government is to move out, lose jobs, empty out, and that money that people send is going through taxes, increased consumption but not economic growth in Croatia in the sense that industry, that agriculture, so 10% less producing milk in... For the last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's funny, 10% less milk. Where did the Minister's farm incentives go? Here you were the assistant minister and minister. Where did the farm incentives go? How many agricultural incentives have gone to Agrokor, do you know that information while you were an assistant minister? Do you know that information? That's true. What was meant for our peasant and the heavy went over the vermin in the ministry, it went to those who shouldn't go, those who don't know how many cows there are and so on, that's the fact and that's the truth. Krško area, pastures, laugh at Boric, you have made a good speech, you have a replacement mandate and you will fight again exclusively for the replacement term because if Oleg Butkovic returns you will no longer be a parliamentary representative. And don't laugh because the fact that the incentives, the subsidies were distributed that way. Where's our farm, where's the farmers? Where's the gold? Here, Croatia is the only state that has no gold reserves. While the governor of the CNB you re-elected, who is responsible for the economic coup. And I filed a criminal report for what money is, i.e. What 10 billion kuna had without bail guarantees spent, 10 billion kuna spent, 10 billion Agrokor,... Yeah, yeah, that's true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And he's buying today, he's buying apartments today, he doesn't care about the flow of money, and he doesn't care how many of our people have moved out, but they're sitting on our citizens' accounts, sitting on our doctors' records from my Dalmatian burn, coming out of it, that's all right. And now you've balanced the budget. It's all right. And we've lost people, we've lost the most sweaty people, we've lost people to farmers, we've lost teachers, we've lost everything, we've lost everything. Health services, when we talk about health services so never worse, here on Hvar we don't have a lab, in the Makarska Sea when a man takes out blood goes to Kastela, he has to go to the lab. What kind of health care are you talking about? County, decentralisation. What decentralisation? What's the county for? What's it for, I ask what the county's for? That the mayors had to, that I was running for mayor with only one program to shut it down but you did, that only it would shut them down and save them. Here's all the mayors and mayors must be friendly to the mayor, obedient, except the Pharaohs. So look at the management of the waste, what you do. Here's a colleague here from the example, here's a colleague, Šipic, who went to solve the problem and said he had solved the problem but he didn't solve the problem, it would have been better if Minister Coric had called him when he forced the waste 10km from Vrgorec to go to Sinj, then the problem had to be solved but the problem had not been solved but would not delay the waste, we know it well, regardless of the wisdom of Minister Ćorić. Here, there is a colleague from Jasenovac municipality, I think, from Zagreb will be chasing waste in your area. In Novska, yes, that your watery area, from these springs where you will have Zagreb trash go where the drinking water is you will drink water and your end and you sit and keep quiet, Commissioners, sit and remain silent. Of course, that part of the environmental, water supply, too, so stop, 14, so do you know how many households in Croatia do not have water supply in the 21st century. So the people of Dolva are looking at Cetina, they're looking at the Ruda that powers all over Split, they don't have water supply, they're looking at the Sibenik hinterland. Here's a fellow Babic waving his hand, he knows how it's also supplied with water all over the area. Irrigation, draining, no Vrgorak field, irrigation of the Sinj field, what did you do? You've evicted people, you've evicted people, and based on that, the minister of eviction, based on 5% of GDP, that's the record in the EU, the worst eviction when it was, the worst. There wasn't that much GDP in Ireland from the signs. And of course that money is being spent here, what people send to their families is a fact and it's the only truth. And it's long-term and it's long-term Minister, it's long-term, the biggest problem is that we've lost our workforce. We have empty and Slavonia and Gorski Kotar and Lika and Dalmatian Zagora. Well, you've emptied the entire territory of Croatia, and now you're boasting about, now you've all leveled everything. Because people send money,... So in the '60s, people were going to Germany, people were going to Germany, and they were sending money here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem. And that's one of the bigger problems. And I don't think I can understand that we have a government session a year and a half ago in Split, no significant project that was then promised was made except now that it's going to be budgeted, I'm going to give amendments, you don't have to... I believe you will also support the fast road to and all the verticals and to Sinj, the Cetinski end and to Drniš and to Knin and to Imotski and now I have laid stone foundations for you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm all your cornerstones for all these projects that I've set from election cycles to election cycles. You've got nothing but baggers and you're driving, but don't accidentally come back and open the cornerstones, you've eaten those lambs, there's nothing left, here's a colleague... It can confirm, there's very little cattle in that area because for the campaign you have to break the lambs because you just like it a little better... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a little better play. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've messed everything up, all the ministers. And this story is so unrealistic, so fairytale, do you live in these parts? Then the speeches will work on Lečevica, a waste management centre, and Mariščina's disaster and then the poor from Vrgorec, not poor, I mean from Vrgorec who has weak financial capacity and of course the mayor must not be so loud. You've made mayors and mayors addicted to mayors. And you know exactly election cycles on asphalting, it's been known since when the county, and 100,000 people are less than just Krka to Neretva in Dalmatian Zagorje since when the county was founded, and when you take out a sample of asphalt you see the elections exactly, when the presidential elections, when they are local, are just a charm asphalt and it's a fact, and that's a fact. And it's a shame not to take out a sample, so I'll get you the ministers, and I'll give it to you. Countys are purpose themselves and it is not decentralisation the mayors are absolutely Pharaohs and it is not, only when the county is abolished Croatia will dissipate. My Dalmatian Zagora will breathe, the empty Slavonia, which is empty and now our farmers are planting potatoes in a weaker fertile country in Ireland, in us when the potatoes are thrown in Slavonia grow, but who knows who the incentives went to, as I said, the incentives for cows, and those who got the incentives didn't know how many tits the cows had.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168447	Thank you, fellow Bull. We have four replicas on your exhibit. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168448	Dear colleague Bulj, I would ask you not to ask Minister Maric about Agrokor. It is a man who knows nothing about Agrokor he himself said that he knows nothing about Agrokor, that he has no information, he is the only one in the conflict of interest even though he went to meetings with Ivica Todorovic while he was Minister of Government so that you do not ask him questions about the support he received from Agrokor. Don't ask these in the Government about the support these great importers received, so those who didn't actually produce anything but destroyed Croatian production and you're well here, many of you laughed, but you said one key question, we share support based on hectares, not on this number of throats. We don't share support based on how much you've produced and these are the key problems. And we now have a reduction in agricultural support, which is not good. We need support control, and this will not be carried out by Zdravko Marić, Zdravko Marić is an entity of such policy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168449	The answer to the replica, thank you. Comrade Grmo, thank you, fellow Grmo. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168450	If Agrokor, Agrokor, Agrokor, Todorić and that help and control were similar, and the money went, and I agree with you, as long as you don't wake up, while it's given by acres of pasture, by hectares, what you're nervous about, what you're nervous about, so you know everything about Todorovic, you don't know, who knows, what you're yelling from the bench, we'd like to remind him not to interrupt parliamentary representatives [[Intruder: Slowly, slowly.]] You're walking to night meetings everyone knows. [[Intruder: Slowly.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168451	Continue, Comrade Bulj, you have a replica on your colleague Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168452	I wish you wouldn't interrupt the minister to calm him down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168453	Comrade Bulj, please respond to my colleagues to Grumoji. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168454	I'd like to say that really those incentives that went for example. in Agrokor who choked our agriculture, they went, of course, that it was controlled, and of course it was settled at night meetings, they did not, so they chose the governor who was controlled, so at those meetings that went to this Kujundzic, I think Minister Maric went to Rohatinski's Todoric's, at Todorovic's. So it's all controlled, but the fact that it's really embarrassing if people take incentives to pastures per hectare, state pastures, and they don't know what cows look like, while people who don't get it is an example, but it's about billions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168455	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168456	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, this was a level of debate. I'm talking about what happens to me first. So if I see someone in my sight then about him, and if not about your subjects that have nothing to do with the rebalancing. So about me, you mention me and you say that a deputy representative like Mrs. Cikotic is not as valuable as you are, it's all wrong for you. Mrs. Cikotic is your deputy representative and you say she's not as valuable as you are. So what kind of relationship is that to your colleagues? And instead of attacking the Grmoya that was your first shot or the centerfor those zeros in the European elections where you received eight times less votes in the entire Republic of Croatia than you got as mayoral candidate and blamed it for your failure because you wanted to go to Brussels because you thought you could and you thought you could, now you're attacking everyone else around you. So attack him, he was your centerpiece, he'll probably still be your problem, but that's your problem. Talk about rebalancing properly, not nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168457	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168458	Thank you very much. You know when I'm going to ask my colleague Boris if I should be a candidate for anything? When the secretary, when the biggest robbery is in the ministry, the secretary at the Ministry of Transport when the tunnels were afraid, when the gram of iron of Croatian products, when it was clean robbery of the Croatian state, clean robbery of Croatia, I tell you that publicly and loudly. So, what I'm going to run for, I can run for whatever I want and whatever I want, but I'm not a replacement mandate anywhere, do you understand me, colleague Boric, I'm not a replacement mandate, I didn't hurt you there. You're a replacement mandate, you're a replacement mandate, I didn't humiliate anyone, you're a replacement mandate, and as far as I got the votes, much more than you, I got more in the village than you in the entire constituency. You and Jandrokovic together president of the assembly, expensive than you and Jandrokovic and you have to work hard, you have to buy a vase, to be bigger on the list, to be sure, to be safer in this story because simply if you continue to act like this, you will again be the deputy parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168459	Excuse me, Comrade Bulj, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So please stop the intrusions, stop the intrusions. So we're continuing the next fellow Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168460	Thank you, Vice President. I never let myself make a promise I couldn't make or I don't know how to keep that promise. [[Intruder Doncic: Here you go.]] You here today in the debate stated that you were running for mayor just to lift your county. So now I'd like to hear how you planned to do it in case you won an election? I wonder how you would end it, I don't know, Split-Dalmatia County and why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168461	Here you go, Comrade Bull, answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168462	I know what you mean, yeah, I ran with the mayor, with one single program to make counties sense that money must be decentralized exclusively to local self-government because local self-governments are addicted to mayors and the mayors are feuds, feuds, they just distribute money that decentralizes the minister of finances for health, education, they distribute. I would fight exclusively, I would solve everything, I would fight and I would send letters that was pointless because I don't want Mayor Vrgorca to be dependent on me or Trilja, I want the decentralised money by certain coefficients and what's better for a servant and what's better for him, what's more vasalin, that's more money, especially if he has a party card the same and that's the problem, it's not decentralisation, get it, it's not decentralisation, it's just no role, what the county needs to worry about not doing well, than managing the waste of irrigation, schooling, health care, all in ruins, 100,000 people have gone from uphill ever since the county was founded.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168463	Thank you, colleague Bulj, thank you, and the last replica of your presentation, colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you have appealed to the ruling to abolish the counties that are their own purpose, what is quite clear, that if there was even the slightest hope and intensity that the counties in some future are being abolished, it has disappeared, or decommissioned, the moment that this government has decided to shut down the offices of the state administration and their jobs in fact to transfer to the counties. This in an indirect way justified their existence even if it had not existed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168465	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168466	My colleagues, gravediggers of development are Croatian counties. The only and first as it should be done and it needs to be lifted urgently, it's the only survival and control tool, the only tool of the entire system, and mostly the electoral base. If the mayor doesn't bow down to the mayor of any county but he is other political options and even the same, here's what counterpart Šipic can confirm, if you're not good with the mayor, there's no money to make the best project, there's no criteria. So in this story, the county is pointless. And it's just for entanglement and control of funds decentralised both for education, it controls everything from employment, so health care, waste management disastrously, here we see your Black Hill still standing there in the hinterland of Zadar regardless of the European Commission and so on irrigation. None of their segments that the county needs to perform have done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168467	My friend Bulj, thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the following is Col. Slaven Dobrović. Here you go, colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168468	Thank you very much. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168469	Comrade Bulj, my colleague Dobrović would like to testify, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168470	The budget, each budget is definitely a mirror of a policy that is meant to be led in a particular portfolio because it outlines the objectives, outlines solutions that, of course, want to achieve this. I will touch the extra budget funds, especially one, which is the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, a fund in which, on the basis of the budget and especially then the budget rebalancing sees that there is no systematicity, so there is no head and tail, there is no convergence goal, there is nothing but simply hitting on certain measures that are being implemented more or less successfully, and then there is a lot of media talk about it. What do you see it for in this particular fund? We know that the sectoral objectives of waste management are very strong, it is similar in energy, but not so much, so at these years that are currently going on, we have to make a transition with a delay which today is dominant in something else, that something else is not a waste treatment in the way that we can see in Mariščina or Kastion where it has become or remained a major problem but it should be circular management where it is going to end up in a broader sense of the words of all our things recycling. What of it can be seen in the budget of the fund i.e. The financial plan? So almost nothing, for example, because the measures to increase the separate collection and recycling that were planned from slightly less than 8 million kunas have not been realised at all, and that 8 million kuna is far less than the money that was planned to continue the establishment of the centre system. So it's clear that neither the fulfillment of this plan could be achieved because planning 320 or how many, 370 million kunas for separate collection containers and without it sticking up, composing, composing, coupled with the sorting and compost system, means about as if when we're getting a vehicle, that this year we're going to buy wheels, the next engine, and maybe back there and the cabin, it's simply unconvergenced and not convergence as I said. However, let's look at the implementation of the plan now, although Minister Maric saw all of this together in some good light because it is ultimately not his to monitor the quality of sectoral policies, he is looking at summation, but a huge no-realisation of as many as 400 million kunas of unrealised, planned for this year, and in this very, even the back system of separate collection. What does that mean? Well, it's actually at least double damage because we need to know that the money available, so it's about the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, 475 million euros to be spent, so it's for the period until 2020, the deadline is there in 2023, or it's going to be redeployed, which already exists or will not be spent. And at the same time, the second damage is that our communal system continues to stagnate, tap on the spot, doesn't move, doesn't develop, there's no qualitative change in the right direction. And these are not fantasies and unrealistics, they are practices and developmental paths that can be seen in Croatia. And it's a pity that when the fund manager sat in this position he had to travel all the countries of the world, all the continents he visited because he studied the systems extensively, and he could only go to Međimurje. In Međimurje and in the county which is at least 20, 30 times better than the average of Croatia where in a series of cities and municipalities you can see a system that has a head and tail where you would quickly learn about very small money that cannot be built and bought millions of buckets. For who? I don't know. Who's gonna do what with those buckets if there's no sorting room, if there's no composting? Then you would learn to say there in Prelog with no idea how many municipalities around, in only a year jumped from 18, 19% to over 50, so in that area today I think almost 70% of the degree of separate collection and since it is neat, the recycling procedures are very close and at least ready for recycling. No, it's not all done together, it's done wrong. But in the end, it turns out a good thing that no false realization has ever happened, but which of that benefits us because years go by, guilty people sit in responsible positions and what's best happens is absurdities. We could hear when now the former fund manager left under the pressure of course that place, that he boasted that it was a terrible good business, so he found the imagine fund in a great minus and now left it in a big plus, as if he was selling some terrible service or product around the world, as if it were due to it, as if it weren't pipes that pour money through various fees of what domestic, which of the sales of emission units, as if they were not money available for the operational programme. And it is our sadness that such a huge failure because this rebalance of the fund is actually proof of the vastly defeated statistics or failure of that policy. It's absolutely bad, it's for the unit, it can't happen. However, this remains undetected, it is in one system where the PR is paid from these projects as much as anything else, simply undetected and here is Croatia going on. The coins are either spent or spent on the wrong things and ultimately people who bear much responsibility for the failure, the failure that will cost us Croatia because we need to know that we have also signed the Paris Agreement, that we have signed recycling obligations, that we have already come under stricter obligations, so everyone around us advanced civilised goes forward, we are standing in place and just playing with statistics where the figures are then pushed which are not actually correct because, let's say, the separately collected bulky waste that mostly ends up at the dump there presents as separately collected so this or that, but it's all very bad. So defeat and bad and that's what's best invisible, it's not noticeable in this rebalancing. Of course, the minister can't know that here. I believe that such examples are many in other portfolios and we will not go forward with our Croatia unless the people who run individual resolutions are valued by what they do and if the responsibility is not the main feature of their, of course, expertise and that it is both verifiable and transparent and that the professional public, especially those who are not bound to the state, must not be state or clientelistic experts, but the public professional can include and give a correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168471	Thank you, colleague Dobrović. We have three replicas on your exhibit. First colleague is Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168472	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Dobrović, you have discussed the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund, I can agree with you in this part, actually Minister Maric is... And he's doing it formally, and basically, we're discussing things essentially. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Likewise, the fund manager boasted and particularly stressed his success in how much money he had left and didn't spend. So, the point is to spend money, the point is to do something else, I'm interested in the basis of your experience because you were also a minister and you know how this fund works, for those money he's talking about what could have been done because how much better it would have been for me to know and the competition that went to the state level to get a waste tank to end up being annulled, and somehow it would have been a lot better if those funds had been decentralised and that some units of local self-government were doing it themselves, so I'm interested in the basis of your experience which would have been better. So what's worse is that the money's left. [[Employer: Answer]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168473	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168474	Thank you very much. Of course he could have done better, the idea of getting central supplies is absurd, the first one has no one to deliver it, the second one, is it going to be a container that, which, the number of containers, are these 3 containers, and is it going to be quite something else, bags, it's a unit of local self-government, and on them is the responsibility of dealing with waste and they need to be left with the choice of systems, it's one example of where the state gets involved needlessly and complicated things, and it's inefficient, what was it supposed to do? He was supposed to call, in fact, and his minister was supposed to call a public call for sorters, composts and vessels, or a transport system, vessels or bags or whatever units of local self-government apply and they guarantee success, so you get the money, but you guarantee success.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168475	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, the replica of my colleague Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168476	Well, colleague Slavena Dobrovic, I would ask a question, so what is so attractive about this fund that so much, from one to the second term of the director, we have constant problems inside that fund. So, we have some former directors who ended up in prison, we have directors who, they didn't know how to manage, we have directors who couldn't, this one should have, go on, to, what, this one, to training to control anger and aggression that eventually ends up in someone else's company, so there's still a justification for how it worked, but it has to be removed, so, what it is in that fund that it's just always very attractive and always come to the head of that fund, and in fact, neutral assets, non-transparent spending and from the mandate to the mandate we actually see that it simply doesn't satisfy the most often the purpose and reason why it was even established. [[/Agreement: Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168477	Thank you, colleague. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168478	So this is the consequence of the fact that the fund is perceived as one, one fat cash register, one big opportunity to manage big money by itself, the lack of responsibility is what is crucial here, so it's clear what are the tasks, so the policy of the fund must be such that it meets certain goals, here it's not the case. Let's remember a few years ago the former director of the fund there spent in 2015, I think 400-500 million kunas more for energy recovery than was planned and then when we found 2016, we saw that it was a bottomless hole, so only the invoices came in, it's irresponsibility, so it's hard to explain at all how it's possible in the election year to get there, but it happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168479	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague of Ines Strenja, please welcome fellow Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168480	Thank you. So, the budget rebalancing and the budget itself is very broad, I will look back on just some area that I most often follow, so I would ask you because you are the Deputy Prime Minister and you manage these finances in some way and you need to be the initiator of this because despite the fact that you have increased the contributions for health insurance and thus burdened the employee with average salary to the health care issue of more than 17.000,00 kn per year, health care is in front of the financial collapse and no transfer of funds from the state to the county budgets of HZZO and gardening around or spilling out into the void will bring no results without reform, without starting to reform the financing of the health system, and that is what this government is willing to do to do when it on the head of this government. And you yourself admit that the only real scenario means where this income side can no longer increase so much, reform of the financial system, and I'll tell you what black scenario awaits us, and that means a continuous increase in income obligations, an age-old claim of older than 3 years, a payment of claims to court by way of, so the execution will then follow the blockage of the bill of health institutions, the inability of timely payouts, a delay in the supply of health institutions, the inability to provide health services and insurance companies will not be able to exercise their rights under the law, that is what awaits us in the blackest scenario. I hope it won't come to this, but it takes moves, but the moves are already late, so according to our data, the total obligation of the health care institution by the end of September this year were actually more than 8 billion kunas, amounting to 4.3 billion kuna, with the total hospital obligations of 93% of all health institutions, and the hospital's obligations are over 1,000 days, and you know how often you have at the door of the wholesaler. So for the last year, the financial plan of HZZO was to remind, 25 billion 835 million kuna, by the end of the current year HZZO of surprise of all meanings, we have no money in the system, will have more revenue than planned for 650 million kuna, on the income and contribution item. Also, since EU projects will not be spent, which is e-HZZO, e-medicines in 2019, for part of the EU funds, a reduced capital aid item from institutions by as much as 38 million and 780 000. So it's not spent, it's European funds. So, according to what we read, in HZZO, the state of health is good. So, what we need to know, the price of services in Croatia, and that's what our top minister says, is that we can't allow anyone to do a positive business and then I wonder how long we'll wait for the right price corrections because what we saw now is the last one, it's minimum and minimum, hospitals are on the verge of blocking because they mean we don't have real service prices and their limits are absolutely unrealistic. So without adequate correction of the current price of health services and restrictions, hospital budgets are unsustainable and such a situation is a major and growing difficulty in the business of these health institutions. Business conditions are getting harder and the hospital can no longer function at current limits and prices, and when we talk about hospital debts, I keep saying it's actually a debt state. Why? Because HZZO has set a price to pay the services and to pay the real price, and not me as a neurologist, a review of the specialist 58 kn, but realistically it would be a minimum of 50 euros, to make a completely different hospital business but we are not ready for it but we have a positive HZZO. Therefore, the health system of the Republic of Croatia is chronically suffering from a lack of financial resources to cover expenditure. Although HZZO's income has been growing, and the additional funding from the state budget has been constantly allocated, the system has never been less sustainable before, the employees' debts not to just talk about not paying overtime to doctors and nurses, etc., when these executions come, you will see, will be about a billion to 2 billion, debts to wholesalers, etc. So, we're in anticipation of economic growth and higher employment but in the last 5 to 6 years, HZZO has lost as many as 100,000 active insurance companies and is constantly pushing for the state budget and is looking for even greater isolation for health care, but at the end of the day, what will come will be the abolition of certain insurance rights. What awaits us, this is the Health Insurance Act that was planned by the end of last year, so here we welcomed it and the end of this year, it is gone, it is the law that we will have to face in which we will organise health insurance in Croatia. I'm not going to be long, and I wanted to say some more things, and I'm going to go back to one story that came up on my Committee on Health and Social Policy today, which is something that is of interest to all in Croatia, which is to build the National Centre for Spinal Injuries, meaning for people who have suffered the trauma of the spine and therefore are paraplegics, one part of them tetraplegics and paraplegics. Insistent preparation of projects and withdrawal from European funds, for 4 sensitive groups, means vulnerable groups, funds are provided, means for psychiatric patients in Vrapč, for Marof where patients are on palitatives, for the Children's Hospital in Klaic and 85 million for the Spinal Centre in Varazdinian spas, a reference centre where the person who hurts the spine will come after the injury and where they will come out after being able to do as much life with that injury as they will never walk again, with the psychological meaning there from psychologists to everyone who needs to be stabilised and prepared, that is the center that is needed. You know how much it costs? 100 million kuna, 85 million kuna is secured from European funds. Why can't you just end of the year is, a whole year to open a bid to start a shop, there's 19 million kuna missing. I am asking you nicely, I am on the board today and such a recommendation to the Government, the application of all parties put, of course, members of the HVZ, members of the HVZ board were against it, I ask you that within the budget there is no connection to the SDP, MOST or HDZ, this has to do with us finding not 100 million but 18 million as long as it takes to make the project known, its price is 100 and some million kuna, so 85 comes from European funds. That's something I'm appealing to, I'm asking you to find the means to do it. What I would just look back a little bit, I'm sorry that we have, and the Ministry of Social Care that needs to worry about the most vulnerable parts and members of our society, was once again poorly planned was a child's allowance, so a child's allowance that we absolutely must raise but a child's allowance that, instead of the planned 350,000 children, this year, actually receives now less than 300,000, which means that the funds remained neutral in that item, which is absolutely unacceptable, should have been found a way to, to realize how much censorship should actually be in order to cover more children, you need to know that 40% of children in Croatia live on the edge of poverty. It's the same with a minimum guaranteed fee, even 52 million remains neutral, this rebalance is being transferred because it hasn't been delivered to those who need it and you know how much we've determined it takes for a person to survive... , 950 kn is an asset census, so whoever has 951 kn can't get those funds and we left them unscheduled, not unscheduled, neutral, lapus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what we can see is that once again without reforming the health system's finances, we're going to insert 122 million kunas, I think we should have deployed them differently. I think that until we put the system in place within the health care system, we will continue to generate costs, costs within hospitals that are the biggest consumers, but also in some other parts of the system where, until we reform them, we can still put as much money in it as we can, it will remain insufficient to maintain our health system as high as possible. and providing everyone who needs available healthcare. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168481	Thank you. We've got three replicas on your exhibit, first mate Bulj Miro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168482	Thank you very much. My colleagues. The problem of health care in the Republic of Croatia mainly in this part, I will say a few examples, and you are familiar with this, we have a problem where the county is the owner of the hospital in Knin, Veteran and General Hospital Croatian Pride that sinks, the ministry absolutely does not take over the state. So the Veteran Hospital, the only thing that comes on 5.8th of the day of the Storm, is being photographed and that's it. Tone that hospital, which is a devastating picture that the county owns and the county absolutely doesn't care. And so in the case of health homes, also funds decentralised from the budget, Minister of Finance decentralizes them, they're being spent disastrously that we don't have a Hvar lab today, so we don't have a Macarska man, here in Makarska takes his blood, has to be transported to the Kaštela lab. Problem means radiologist, problem specialization, they destroyed health services, mostly in rural areas, and huge money stands out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168483	My friend Bulj, thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168484	The problem of the Knin hospital has therefore been present for a long time, it is the first hospital to be blocked, it must allocate 3 million kuna per month for the salaries of employees, and it gets a limit of 2 million and 700 thousand. We decided there should be a hospital there because it's strategically necessary to be there. As it is necessary to be in Vukovar, as is needed by a hospital in Dubrovnik. These hospitals must have a slightly different approach because we want to have equal health care available to the citizens of this country. But we have a situation with Split, where, in fact, it's politically similar to that of those who manage the Split-Dalmatia County, health care has been neglecting problems that can be solved for a long time. Believe me, there are counties where HDZ is in power all the time, in which some of the health systems are very well laid, but in Split the problem is huge and then you have to wonder why someone out there doesn't want to solve it. Which is why someone should have waited to close the lab to say, now you've already spoken to the person who had... State, it needs to be prevented, not people lost their labs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168485	Thank you. Next replica, counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168486	Fellow Strangers, we've been talking about health care and finance for the last 20 years, then always the first thing that comes to mind are losses, debts, etc. However, it seems to me that you are in the Board of Directors of KBC River. Let's say, for all I know, the last few years of KBC River has been operating without debts. So, business positive, the same thing is with the hospital in Lovran, the same thing is with our county hospitals, the Talasotherapy of Opatija and the Talasotherapy of Crikvenica, so there are parts of Croatia where possible. How can it be in Rijeka and not in Split what you said? So these are the questions that I, I think we should ask, that I'm not saying that more resources may probably go from the state to Split than we do in Rijeka, and then we're doing a more rational business. Here, I'd like you to comment on it a little bit, and I think we should talk about it together, so we're an example in our county that we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168487	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168488	Thank you. The first thing Minister Kujundzic did was he replaced me as a member of the Governing Council in the KBC in Rijeka, but KBC Rijeka is doing well because the director controls the costs well and fiscally is responsible, not only the head of the clinic, the heads of the department, but every doctor and it is quite different. But can you imagine a minister coming to you and saying he won't be a hospital in Rijeka anymore but we'll send her up there somewhere, I don't know, to the Cemetery or somewhere, and then we'll bring the Chinese who'll make you actually positive. Those in Split have welcomed it, and you know what they cried out? Let's just let us start this transfusiology office regionally because it's necessary, and we're just starting to organize it, and then here we are, and there's this hospital on Klis. So health care should be managed, but not in the way that it is done in the Split-Dalmatia County where I cried out, it is impossible that you don't have a tourist infirmary in the 21st century in Split that is so strong this region is touristic, you don't have a tourist infirmary, and that should be organised. County Home of Health, in Rijeka [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's been 30 years there. [[Thank you, colleagues.]] So it's a thing. only in man. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168489	Last line, fellow Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168490	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Strenja, you have also touched the construction of a spinal centre in the Varazdinske Toplice in your debate. Most of the debate was fine with you, however, you did not highlight something important, which is that this spin center has been talked about for 15 years and 15 years has done nothing until exactly the mandate of this government. A building permit has been issued in the term of this government and these county authorities and the whole project has reached a building permit and so before the call for tender for construction is opened. It is true that 85 million European funds have been provided, but it is also true that this year they will not be built, we are discussing rebalancing, and the next one begins, and in 2021, they will be secure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168491	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168492	Comrade Striker, I will submit the amendment, but I ask that you as someone who comes from that county and belongs to the ruling set and you submit the amendment because perhaps your amendment will adopt because the problem is so important and has nothing to do with the parties, I ask you nicely to make an effort. The principal's engagement managed to secure that 85 million. With debates, with associations that wanted operating rooms there and doing things that are absolutely not necessary because there should be a rehabilitation centre that will train those people. And now close to that goal and every honor because it's managed to put the whole project in a gauge that's real and when it's 85 million, it's missing that 18.5 million. I ask you nicely to try to agree within the ruling to secure these funds because that centre will live and work for patients who have spinal damages much behind you and me and many who will sit in both the next and the next governments because it will be a reference... centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168493	Thank you, colleagues. We're moving on with the individual. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168494	Article 238, namely, to submit an amendment to the 2019 rebalancing, does not make sense because if the competitions are now opened this year, none of the only shovels will be buried. Therefore, the next year's funding is secured, and the other 15 million will be secured in the budget for 2021 because the project is being run for two years and so is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168495	Easy, let's take it easy, please. So, first of all, no injured Rules of Procedure, so you're being warned by fellow Striker. If you'd like a warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168496	Buddy, I need paper to call the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168497	Injury of the Rules of Procedure well, let's say Article 238, well, here, let me help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168498	That's right. You've made a lie because you need to have a fully secure means to call the competition. The paper that will be the funds even in the following year is insufficient for the competition to be announced by the new year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168499	Well, you and your colleague Strenja have one warning. So now we're going to continue with our colleague Bolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168500	Thank you, Vice President. So now I'm being asked around the Parliament how I always manage to get rid of President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Prime Minister here today and the business peace minister of finance? I've said very simply, I'm telling the truth, and the truth hurts. The truth causes reactions, the truths stand up to many, but I will continue to tell the truth. So I'm not going to make up for reality as my colleague, Boric, as I don't know my colleague Bačić, I'm going to talk about the real situation in Croatia. Today, I warned at the break that we had a meeting of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mayor Milan Bandic these days and that at a meeting the government partners agreed that the state would take over stakes in the APIS, and that money was found because the government was mistargeting the figure. It targeted 150,000 children's extras, however, it has been shown to be 10 times smaller. I'm convinced they did it on purpose, and there's now an additional 250 million kuna. And what do they do with these funds, what does the government of Andrej Plenkovic do? He's investing these funds in political trade. It does not invest in expanding the circle of children's allowance and demographic measures but rather invests in political trade with Milan Bandic. And then what's the message? We run a responsible fiscal policy. You are the mantra of Minister Maric and Prime Minister Plenkovic. No, this government wastes money means never the revenues were higher, but it is not the merit of Minister Maric or this government and has never been thrown away in this way with the state budget, the state money to maintain this bought-out commercial majority. And you know the only prime minister who's been cutting public debt? It is Prime Minister Oreskovic, but the team boasted very incorrectly later on, Minister Maric. He should have gone to London to be in debt very unfavorably if Prime Minister Oreshkovic hadn't stopped him, it would have happened. And then later he boasted that he was taking a shower I don't know and how it occurred to him that he shouldn't go to London and be in charge. No, it was Prime Minister Oreshkovic's policy. And now you can see what Minister Zdravko Maric is like, now under Prime Minister Plenkovic you can see what kind of minister he is. And we had a non-partisan prime minister, a prime minister who didn't match these structures that paralyze the budget, and that's why it had to be torn down. That's why it had to be torn down because it destabilised this system, and their only mantra is the mantra of stability, and that is, in fact, as I recently said here in the Croatian Parliament, the perfect thieving balance whose pillars are Vrdoljak, Bandić, Sacha and others, HNS, SDSS and the partners of Andrej Plenković. That's what this is about, that's what we need to talk about. And here Minister Maric jumped when I mentioned Agrokor, when I mentioned support because my colleague Bulj opened the topic very well. So I can't grant support the way they're assigned now. There's a lot of abuse, there's a lot of blurry jobs, so support should exist, there's no country at all without agricultural support because simply our agriculture can't be competitive in a different way, but there's a need to introduce order. And of course those who created such a system against it detest when told the truth. My colleague Bulj was talking about the governor of the CNB, you know what I was convinced of? When I drew the recognition of former Governor of Rohatinski at the Agrokor Committee that Milan Kujundzic, Zdravko Maric, Tomislav Karamarko had persuaded political engagement, I was convinced that the system in Croatia would collapse completely because it was clear evidence that the policy had an impact on the governor and that the governor might have adjusted the exchange rate differences, that I forgot Ivica Todorovic, that Ivica Todorovic, Milan Kujundzic, Zdravko Maric, Tomislav Karamarko, had been involved in political engagement. This shows that politics may have had an impact on monetary policy, not only politics, but that these strong importers, such as Ivica Todorovic, who was part of that round, also had an impact on monetary policy. I thought after that, I stopped like this, I thought the state would collapse after this confession. Nothing happened Nothing happened, nothing happened and no one answered and with the right of these days I see a fellow Boric in the offensive of Davor Bernardic receiving money for a scholarship, I see him surging, marching, marching in an unconstitutional offensive, but no one is asking how that man who went from the Ministry of Finance to Agrokor, from Agrokor to the Ministry of Finance is not in conflict of interest. And this is the man who went to secret meetings with Ivica Todorovic during the crisis around Agrokor. No one's asking that question. There's no Boric here, there's no warrant for the offensive, there's been ordered to hide in the mouse hole and keep quiet about it. It doesn't bother here, it doesn't bother here. This means that this system rests on the grip of the powerful man, the powerful men who create economic flows, who influence and who will be the government minister who almost forced the prime minister on us because Zdravko Maric was even the prime minister for a time when Ivica Todoric, I guess, in fear of what will happen, pushed him to try to assemble the ruling majority around him. So they've been shaking political flows in this country for a long time. And nobody's talking about them, I haven't heard, here's the HDZ, for example. someone who is not politically close to them, for example. Emil Tedeschi, I have not heard HDZ talk about Emil Tedesch, who is close to Prime Minister Milanovic, I have not heard them talk about how the Tedeschi family in the former state through which the funds received money, I have not heard them talk about how in Sinj this one took the money for the weapons for which my colleague Bulj has filed a criminal report, I have not heard them talk about it. Because it is a binding structure, and the other day I said on the press when a new political power comes to power in Croatia, and believe me, although it doesn't seem that way and you all seem to be moving things towards the bipartisan, it is visible by TV shows, according to HRT, through our media, when this political power already comes in these presidential elections to power, and then on parliamentary, when the repressive system gets free hands and the Croatian judiciary many of you will end up behind bars, many of you will end up behind bars when the judiciary gets free hands and repressive apparatus, many. Of these pillars, the ruling coalition means from pillars of the ruling coalition to some of this so-called. An anti-corruption alliance. We have a corrupt government and so on. An anti-corruption alliance, from the Istrian HDZ called IDS and beyond. It's all gonna be a turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168501	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Stenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168502	I won't say.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... but you didn't refer to this one whether you were satisfied with the way here and the rebalancing approach to the health problem in Neretva County. So, with promises from daily hospitals that probably won't be safe for two years, maybe before those local elections, they're able to do something about the fact that the Dubrovnik Hospital and doctors who work there are under such a burden and under threat are actually already going to court because they are working overtime, the hospital is taking external co-workers of pensioners who come from all the other hospitals to cover the lack that is constantly present and that hospital should cover that day hospital in Metkovic, and we've got some other quasi solutions that can't satisfy the problem that's down there. We didn't get the isolated, the place where you'll be able to run quick analyses, the tender for the purchase of analysts still completed, as you're satisfied with this rebalancing relative to health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168503	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168504	Well of course I can't be satisfied with what's going on, I'd like to be a daily hospital in Metkovic, but more than being a building would like to have someone in it to work with. Unfortunately, and Dubrovnik Hospital lacks personnel, Milan Kujundzic and Dalibor Milan Mayor Metkovic, whom I like to call Dado Istanbul because they also wrote about the Istanbul Convention what they will say from the HDZ centre, that is a man who has no attitude about anything, so they promised us that the daily hospital is a done deal. None of that is yet, they're promising 2023 now, so of course they can't be satisfied, the doctor doesn't have, the nurses are gone, and they're cheating and lying all this time, so this one of course they can't be satisfied, people are texting me what's going on, here and around Hvar that's what you're talking about, I've asked a representative question to the prime minister of the lab on the entire island of Hvar. Our people Our islanders have no place to do blood tests. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168505	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168506	It's interesting to listen to your debates, you really don't know what to say if you're funny or what, so at the beginning of the current government you were part of that government, until the moment of that historic sentence, I ask the secretary to prepare a decision on resolution. So you're out of the current government. And of course it hurts you and of course you have such discussions, you twist everything, but my tears don't help you there. You're out and you're out and no one's gonna get you anymore. And these stories of yours that you left the government on your own deny this sentence, I ask the secretary to prepare a resolution decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168507	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168508	Thank you. Dear Representative Strick, I am proud of that sentence because I knew that the end of the government was when we voted against Minister Maric and would do it again. Before that vote, the ministers asked me what to do. I said we can't support it. We didn't run, we didn't show up at the government, we defended our attitudes, and we'll defend them forever. I stand behind that position and it is right and it is the only way to raise ethical standards in Croatian politics. It wasn't once that we left the government, twice we were looking for meaning, signed here HDZ's never, these SDPs forgive me, I'll never forget, I've seen Zoran Milanovic bring as a general festival was because the government fell, they couldn't believe that we would sign for the disbanding of parliament. We're not an HNS colleague, Uncle. You're giving it to me, I'm proud of it, I'm proud of it, man. I am proud that 12 people have signed that Croatia is going to early elections for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168509	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be those respected MPs, Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168510	Thank you. Here we go at the 7th hour of debate and we hear very interesting debates but when we talk about rebalancing I thank you, as we enter the 7th hour of debate and the budget is quite exact, there are plenty of arguments, we hear very interesting debates but I think it is very important here at least briefly to repeat those key figures and to explain myself as a representative why we support this budget rebalance. [[So colleagues please, let's let colleague Vranesh speak, let's be polite. Here you go.]] What is very important to mention is that the growth of 3.1% is based on personal consumption, the investments most in the public sector, as well as exports, but we have made it very clear that there is still import dependence in Croatia. What this rebalancing and the predictions themselves show us is that how the tax changes we made in 2018 are their results and how they affect. In 2018, what has often happened in the debate is that we are presided over the effects of tax reform that and the changes that we are making and what we now clearly have ahead of us are results. When VAT was cut, of course, we clearly stressed at the time that we do not know how traders will react but definitely what is visible is that VAT revenue is growing despite its reduction. And we can certainly conclude that regardless of how the final prices have been defined that the reduction of VAT on fresh food has a significant impact on the domestic producer because we know that fresh food cannot come to our shelves from anywhere. Also, as for the European funds in 2016, there were significant wrong forecasts regarding the use of eu funds, as I have then commented on and now, but what is very important means even 87.1% is projected to implement aid from eu funds. What we can still assess this rebalancing, and that is 2019, is that the biggest growth we have in wages and pensions, and it is also very important to say that all these results that I mentioned even affect the growth of income of 1.6 billion kuna, which definitely shows that we were very conservative and not that we were over-inflating our results. Also, even though we had a 4 billion kuna deficit plan, it is even at 1.26 billion kuna in this rebalancing, which leads us to a balanced budget and what I further want to stress that, according to all the methodologies, not only of the national deficit we use is certainly reducing. In 2017 we talked about the first surplus of the independence of the Republic of Croatia and it is very important to say that it is also seen in this budget that we have reduced income tax, income from income tax has not fallen, which also confirms the number that we have the highest number of employment from Croatia. As for eu funds other than these figures mentioned here, it's very important to say that we are now at the execution of 64% of the planned, but that's 40% more than it was last year. So I think all of these figures are very much proving that we are justifyingly accepting this budget rebalance, and here I thank everyone not to be longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168511	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ante Babic. Did you pick up the plate? Well, then, go ahead. [[I did, I did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168512	Thank you very much. No, everything's fine. Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vranjš, it is true that for several hours here we have talked less about the rebalancing of this budget and you have made certain exact indicators. However, the budget of the previous year should be remembered and the real consistency of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be seen. But what you may not have touched on is the reduction of public debt from 86 to 71.5 seems to me, because it's very significant without new debts, so by own resources, without new debts. So let's say a series of items that can be read from this budget rebalance actually say how right the government was with its projections, which actually says she planned them well. I'm sorry we didn't touch those real issues, like people with disabilities, an increase in personal disability, care of people with disabilities and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168513	Thank you, Your Honor, for the response of the Honorable Representative, Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168514	Yes, you're right, I mentioned the deficit but one very important number that has been reduced or the rate of reduction, let's say the share of the debt is even 13%, which so far is an unmarked data and it's also important to point out, we have really year-on-year good data, maybe we've swept up a little bit and we don't point out because somehow we think it's all pretty positive but we have to be careful because, of course, the opposition has to do its job, and in the public, we often don't point out enough of that figure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168515	The next replica is respected MPs Mackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168516	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Here after this individual debate and replica, finally after a certain time period of several hours, we specifically discussed today's topic, or agenda, and these are changes and additions to the state budget for this year. So we finally talked about what it is to praise and all of what was said during the individual debate of a colleague in front of me and the replicas are certainly commendable. But I also reported to the part that I have to say because in previous discussions from the representatives of Bulj, it was said that I was specifically silent about the garbage being brought into the territory of the unit of the city of Novska from the city of Zagreb, which is not true at all. Neither is garbage being brought in, and whether it's going to be delivered is a matter of years ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168517	Thank you. Dear representative Vranesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168518	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your rep. Well, of course it's very awkward when some colleagues call you and at the moment when you can't answer them, and unfortunately we've all been in such situations and then of course when you react from the bench or somehow you don't have the possibility of replicating and answering that it's not true that you're not responding to problems in your area, they say that the truth hurts. I would say before when the budget is debated we have these figures, and we see that some colleagues don't discuss numbers so that sometimes we can conclude that these numbers hurt, and now this manipulation that they call themselves MPs who absolutely can't respond to such calls is quite rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168519	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I was preparing for this debate, for the budget rebalance I followed the figures I watched what was increased, which was reduced, but I must admit that after this debate, a multi-hour special colleague from HDZ, and especially again, colleagues from Boric, a colleague of Shuker, I simply lost my word. And I realize that my debate that I prepared was obviously completely missed. So this is the best government in Croatian history, we haven't had a better government than this, we're doing great, it's planning, it's all great, there's one idyll, everyone's satisfied, people are satisfied, all great this rebalance shows it. The only one who spoils something, who spoils that fairy tale and the idyll, is us from the opposition, it's the SDP that's the other parties in the opposition, and that's that rock in the shoe that clearly doesn't give this government forward. And it's actually so good and so it's all great but we don't see it. And it's not true when we warn of certain things because it's usually when we listen to our colleagues from HDZ make-up, our plantings and destructions, and they go. So here we have also invented a protest of nurses who are probably satisfied and are doing great work in excellent conditions for very good pay and have not been here in Mark's square and have not rebelled against this best government in Croatian history. Teachers, teachers don't strike today, and I don't know how many days, it's all a fiction and a prank by the SDP and other people in the opposition. No problem in Đura Djakovic, no debt in health care, we didn't have a government reconstruction two, three months ago where half the ministers had to go because of suspicion of corruption and conflict of interest, that's what we invented together again. People don't leave Croatia every day, 70 per cent of citizens support the work of this government, only now we have some opposition MPs. And all the time you're saying how people see it, they see your grand successes. And people see, yes, they see, and of course it's not how you say it and of course it's not the ideal government, that this is the worst government in Croatian history and that we rightly warn about these problems, and you guys keep on sneaking around and saying everything is great. People see it, people see it in the European elections, people will see it in two months in the presidential elections, and they will see it next year in parliamentary elections. They see nurses not well, see teachers and teachers not well, see patients in health care when they get their services, see young people leaving Croatia. The only one who doesn't see it, you don't see it from HDZ. And I really have to tell you that here I had my first line today, Minister Maric, I don't know, about mountainous areas, I've been thinking about health and some other steps in this rebalancing, but when I hear this debate after two, three hours, I'm really asking myself what to say, what to say when it's all so ideal, we just don't see it. ... Sit down, sit down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You haven't been there all day, you're talking nonsense on the boards, so sit her down, sit down. I mean, look.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168521	Please don't come from the bench and let's not fight. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168522	Well, not when a man has nothing to say but sit down, and we're used to it, so that's no problem at all, and I'm going to sit down because I have no one to talk to at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168523	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I would just stick to one segment of budget rebalancing, which is the part that includes the system of education and science. And what you can see when we go a little deeper into numbers, we can see that this is actually not the way a serious public state institution should behave. This can't be called serious planning at all. So the rebalancing, i.e. the changes and the additions of the budget can mean some of the unforeseen elements that on the country's revenue side, which, consequently, also at the expense, but what we can see in the Ministry of Science and Education's budget itself, I mean these are huge deviations, I'm now taxing some things that I really can't believe that something like this can be called planning. I can understand, for example, that there is a significant increase in funding compared to as much as 65 million kuna, from 144 to 210 million kuna to the national and university library, and we can understand that there are works there and we know that there may be a reason to increase certain funds, that is something that could not be planned in a good way, that is something that we have to end up with, where we are pressed by certain, certain deadlines and can, I can understand. I can even understand an increase of 163 million kuna in one item relating to free textbooks, so we had 45 million, and now it's increasing by 163 because the amendment by Club Milan Bandic put pressure on the government, you know when voting on the past budget, they conditioned their handlifting for the budget in such a way that they insisted on an amendment that requires free textbooks for all pupils in primary and secondary schools, and it didn't immediately fit into that budget, but it looked for modality and now it's seen in this budget, and I can understand why all this together has kind of broken down or changed the plan in relation to the original plan. I can understand even some other, some other, other items, but I can't understand two things, so if we go into something that this government and the ministry in that government says is a historical reform in the education system, I can't understand that at that point, it means they're reducing funds to two key agencies, which are the Agency for Education and Education, this rebalancing, the Education and Education Agency, the Agency for Professional Education, why? Because they are the holders of the professional training of teachers and teachers who are the same reform of conduct, but this is not surprising at all that the funds are being reduced by this rebalancing because we are a attitude towards teachers and teachers, towards those who need to carry not only this historical educational reform which is not at all but is one experiment for which we will see how successful they will be in a few years, we see access to these people and, and, and, and, today, we have seen them here, instead of people in classrooms, in classrooms, children in school benches, teachers are on the streets, like street teachers because this government has made them protest on the streets and seek out, looking for their own rights. It also reduces the funds and the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, it is one of the key, one of the key institutions for the external evaluation of education, and external evaluation is one of the key instruments for quality assurance, but who cares about quality, who cares about quality, who cares about quality teaching and teachers, who cares about their motivation, who cares about evaluation, quality evaluation, nobody, what cares about pills, those in HNS care about pills, how to spend as much money and get pills, pills that shoot their screens after 3 months, and then parents have to go about their cost repairing these pills, and then that cost of course more than that tablet, which is not cheap, is not bought, but garbage and parents paid him nothing, he got it free, but will pay as St. Peter's Caygan what they say in the people. And that's because, as far as historical educational reform is concerned, and what this budget says about it. And now let's go to this second part of the story, and normally it's abnormal actually to persist year after year from year from year to year from this ministry planning half a million kunas for the work of the National Council for Education and Education, the key body of the advisory body that should and participated in all key interventions in the education system, it's a key advisory body, this HS voted it, this HS chooses these people, but not this minister will not, she will all, she will run politics, only she, she doesn't need the National Council for Education and Education, 3 years, pardon 4 years. We don't have a quorum or we don't have a National Council for Education and Education because someone doesn't want to choose the rest of the members that the council is working on, but persistent and hypocritically the same people who block it persistently in the budget every year half a million kunas plan resources for the work of the National Council for Education and Education, so it's really humiliating healthy, healthy minds. And now that we're talking about these things, when we talk about these planning things that can't actually be called planning we're going a little bit about, about numbers, meaning planning to apply the teaching standard 520.000,00 kn, which means half a million, and then by rebalancing it by almost double, for a million, super planning, that's some unforeseen what, unforeseeable, which is an evaluation of the textbooks, which, it's all about these textbooks and the fine that you're going to pay 6.5 million kuna because you, I warned here 6 months ago, you can't double-finance the methodical manuals from the budget and take EU funds, no one listens, now the EU has said gentlemen but you didn't have to do it, now we're going to pay the fine 6.5 million kuna because the Divjak has funded the same thing from two different incomes, they'll pay the penalty for not knowing the law or something else. Capital investments in high school, you know schools leak, schools are in bad shape and watch what this government does. He's planning 60 million kunas, slightly less than 61, and now he's taking off 41. .../The speaker claps./... Bravo. Great. You're great. The important thing is that there's pills. 60 million planned, 40 you take off. You're great. Now, speaking of capital investments, what's interesting, here's one thing. Primary school.../incomprehensible/... one of the capital investments, primary school in Babina Greda. It's planned for 6 million, but it's being stripped of 5.8 million, so it's being left for 200 grand, but that's why they're giving it to the Center for Education and Education in Virovitica. And now you tell me it doesn't matter who's in power. Because it happens to be taken by Babina Gredi where the SDP is in power through rebalancing, and that the 6 million kuna funds are additionally given to the Center in Virovitica. They probably need each other, but why this distribution, here's just one of the coincidences seen in this budget. It says for the development of preschool, primary school systems, education, our kindergartens, our youngest. They plan a million kunas, they take off 850 grand. Well, it's real, it's really good planning, it's great planning. I really don't know, these planners need special rewards. Also, the development of the adult education system, planned 6.4 million, is now taking down 3.2. I really don't understand it. I don't have any more time. For the EU, the funds of things are seriously stinking and pummeling here, something is wrong with the EU funds in the Ministry of Education. Everything that's planned, a lot of programs, they're not at all or won't be used this year, why it's so, I don't know, who's scheduled to, I don't know, I don't have time to go in, but I'm begging you. Warn the Ministers and you and these at the Ministry of Education to show minimum respect for both you and us and when they plan that budget, let it not be a per la finta and a show of clarity but rather a serious, serious document. Rebalance is needed, he's necessary, but this isn't a rebalancing, this is actually ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168525	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, at the beginning, you said, and that's why I responded immediately with a replica. To look at the figures in the education system now, and I'm afraid that for the last time today, you're looking at us today, too, here in this budget rebalancing, because as you know in the 2020 draft budget, the education system will now be thrown out with an 8.4 billion kuna recommendation from the State Audit Office. I think that's bad, that's what we and the Finance Committee said, that we won't be able to see the cost structure for employees anymore, and that unrelated to which side came, left or right and by the Ministry of Finance which, I think it certainly opposed, that it is bad because it is certainly only going to see one item now to help the local community because there, like those founders, and on the other hand, the government is negotiating these same salaries. I think that we should bring some common ground to that in the future that one such high point as, you said today, analyze that budget, the education system, however, I'm afraid today is the last time we can analyze it in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168527	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168528	You're right, colleague Lalovec. I remember when we discussed here some perhaps 2.3 weeks ago, perhaps a little more about the State Audit Report, in fact, that my colleague Shuker, in his debate and colleagues Peric, seems to me, I'm not sure now, but my colleague Shucker certainly expressed his disdain about the State Audit recommendation in the sense that these funds for salaries of primary and secondary school employees are no longer shown here as expenditures for employees but rather to be transferred to the aid item because the founders of the local and regional self-government schools are also end-users, but it is indeed so. But we're not completely decentralised because that item still depends on the state. Addicts, everything in the city's collective agreements depends on negotiators who are not founders. So what's going to be that item depends on the state, the government's negotiating team and the union, and it doesn't make sense. I understand that they gave that recommendation, but there's something to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168529	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was to be a respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, he is gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then he was to discuss the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic, who is not there, who is losing his right to debate. He should also be debated by a respected representative, Franco Vidovic, who is not, is losing his right to debate, and the next debate will be the respected representative of Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There are still a few of us left today in this debate about budget rebalancing. In short, it means the revenue side is increasing by 3.1 billion kuna primarily because of a better VAT charge of about 2.2 billion kuna. Also, something better to collect, not something better, but better to collect excise incomes for about 478 million kunas, so excise duties are somewhere on 16.2 billion kunas and it is better to pay taxes on profits that for around 349, or around 350 million kunas, and now profit tax is somewhere around 9.2 billion kuna. Also, it is rebalanced at lower levels, is related to aid plans or EU funding, which are planned somewhere around 15.2 billion kuna, and are reduced by 2.2 billion kuna. Here was the opening speech about it, I know it was also the remarks and the State Audit Office, and I know that it's the nightmare of every finance minister when one particular item comes to you, not to mention inflating because all the resolution ministers say there are certain projects, that the funds will be withdrawn and it's all legitimate and it's all normal, but later when it comes to the budget rebalance of all years it's both 16 and 17 and in our government it was certainly that when there's a rebalancing or budget execution, this is where the finance minister has to explain it, and not that he's not guilty, but they are also, the Ministry of Finance warns all the users to plan more realisticly, and something always comes up. They are not small reductions now, they are not just small reductions, I think that in this part, you will see in the budget itself, so I initially asked the Minister at which level these executions are at today, I know that there are problems in both procurement and in certain competitions, but now we are already at the age of 5.6 of using EU funds, and it must be more quality at the level of the resolution ministries to plan whether then I say every time in the budget or budget rebalancing there are ministers who should explain why this happened, why certain projects have not been implemented, and then only this falls to the Minister of Finance who actually has to defend it, and neither onion has planted, or onion.../incomprehensible/... there is no responsibility on it, but in the rebalance of the budget they are large amounts and it is seen. And that's what you see, and then it becomes a problem later on when we're going to see a budget like that tomorrow when you're helped somewhere at the level of 18 billion kunas, and we're going to see in later executions, so that's not to say double, double the amount. And that's something that the State Audit Office also warned about, and I think we should see in the future how to find some kind of methodology maybe in this way more realistic planning, because I see that in this part of the income and these other spending parties are quite realistically set up certain categories of normal that there are certain breakthroughs normally if there is some stronger economic activity, but these are more significant deviations and they really stick to the eye during all the rebalances or at each and later implementation of the state budget that these are much less funds than they were originally planned. Also, it is when they break out of these amounts and those aids that they receive directly agriculture somewhere around 2.2 billion kunas we see that these EU funds are actually moving somewhere still neglectful up to 8 to 9 billion kunas, and if we know that we are approaching these final years of this financial envelope, I think that, in the future, there must be more attention when planning itself, and I say to the resolution ministries that they need to explain more, which is why something has not been done. Because ultimately, when no final execution is achieved, we will not be able to withdraw the full amount that is actually expected from the administration to withdraw the amount of EU funds. Also, expenditure financed from a source which means no impact on the result of the budget is primarily a reduction of one position of 800 million related to interest, and an additional amount of funding is provided that today there has been speech for employees and for one part for one part for pensions. However, no matter how certain economic activities and tax revenues move, which move much faster than economic activities, and that is actually what we wanted to warn today, it is such a structure of our budget. So, when the economy is growing, our tax revenues are growing, and then you're actually having pressure on everyone right away at the finance minister to schedule those tax revenues. And that's the problem. And that's the problem because the economy works that way, and when it falls, the economy's tax revenues fall twice as fast from economic activity and then again, the Ministry of Finance has to figure out how to balance the budget when that part falls. And I think it's big budget traps, not because someone wants to set it up or not, because that's just how the structure of the economy, the structure of the economy, the sensitivity to tourism, the sensitivity and the very strong presence of VAT, it's recently been a report by the European EUROSTAT Commission that we're very sensitive to the consumer's part, and that we're via, we see 56 billion kuna of VAT. However, no one will, one day, reach their limits because today we have to admit from 2019, '20. In Croatian history, there has never been so much money in terms of VAT 54 next year 56 billion kuna in all that is fine. Those who watch how, how to deploy those funds when they only see how much tax is now how to meet certain needs. However, when that part of the economy starts to slow down or when that part starts to fall, and then no one cares anymore, no one will ever give up any more of those rights they have met in economic growth. That's the part where the economy grows, that's when everyone asks for rights, that's when rights are cemented through contracts and collective agreements and through various legal solutions, but when the economy comes, then don't, don't start with me, start cutting from someone else, start cutting from someone else, and then it becomes a problem later on. So we had 2012 since 2015 because today you've talked a lot about this one about how we cut it, and you're giving it. Simply such economic activities were, I believe that you are aware, and that these were such economic activities and that it was very difficult, whoever government actually manages public revenues in the recession is very difficult, because they are so cemented this amount and all these rights that simply don't leave much room for any, any negotiations. So, as for these good times as they are, we hope that they will last, however, we see that the economy is slowing down no matter what, and no one sees that the economy from both 3 and some percent is now at 2.5%, but everyone is just looking at the structure of tax revenues and just knocking, knocking on the door and how a certain amount of money will be allocated. So, as for this budget, which is technically done properly, however, it is certain that any disturbance to, in the markets, any financial markets, will be linked to the economy that these rights that are being laid down today will be very difficult to negotiate later on in any way to balance budget revenues and that in that part all those who are sitting in that government will certainly not be as easy as they are today when they are looking for certain rights here are a whole company of people coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168531	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168532	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lalovac, you were Minister of Finance, I expected that you would be a little tighter, giving some arguments as to how bad this budget has been in style that for 29 years Croatian governments have been doing budgets the same way. Our first expenses are made and then incomes, that's no man, no family does that. You said fine, if there was a financial disturbance, you know, you should've been there. Well, I can't believe we're talking like that. The real truth is that since coming to power in 2016, Mr. Minister and your government have increased expenditures by 30 billion kuna you have increased expenditures, you have increased public debt from 284 to 298 billion kuna, external debt from 42 to 44 billion kuna you are still sinking Croatia. Here you try to show at some of the little things that you've done, this is the way to ruin is you're constantly spending more than you're earning. And what you're earning, you're peeling your skin off to the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168533	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So dear colleague Lovrinovic, even when I was a minister I remember at a conference I had just joined, unfortunately the Ministry of Finance is just one point that collects all expenditures. Whoever in this society asks for something, they just collect, but wishes are unlimited. And even then, as a minister, I was criticised for saying that unfortunately we don't see how much the economy can give, how much the economy actually... on the capacities of our industrial capacity, the economic, the infrastructure it can give, and on the other hand, what our expenditures are. Unfortunately, as long as it's in good times, it's bathed in high incomes, however, when the recession comes, it sinks to the bottom. So I think your remarks are about the budget they stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168535	The next individual debate was to be a respected representative of Stjepan Curaj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Then, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected representative, Miro Bulj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168536	Thank you very much. This rebalancing is saying that this budget and everything the minister and prime minister say is a false glow. I'm going to repeat once again that you're hearing colleagues and colleagues at this time here six o'clock is afternoon, 5% of GDP in the Republic of Croatia last year is from foreign figures. No country in the EU or outside the EU has the GDP that their citizens you've wasted, the respected foreign minister, fills you with a budget through the natural consumption and VAT of that money that our citizens send here because you've destroyed both agriculture and the economy and industry and you've sent our people out. It's your program. Like the 1960s when it was Yugoslavia, send people out, organize trains for them, and they'll send foreign exchanges here and that's true. 5% of GDP comes from our citizens from abroad, people who have been evicted, from farmers now working in Ireland, planting potatoes where there is infertile soil, and in our Slavonia they cannot plant potatoes. Absolutely this budget is a false glow that harms the labour force is the time it takes to see that we do not have enough workforce and these are long-term damages. Currently, this increase in economic growth due to consumption is solely because of these figures and nothing else, because of the politics of eviction of Croatian people and that is the fact. As far as I haven't received this information in 2019, but the fact is that no matter how we raise the issue of agriculture, to reduce the example of milk production, to increase the import of pork, to increase imports, fields are by weed, irrigation systems as regards Croatian waters do not have irrigation in 2019, a irrigation system in our fields, for example. in my Sinj. As far as traffic verticals are concerned, a merger on the highway of Dalmatia due to the development of tourism, the Dalmatian Mountain, a disaster. All the projects you've promised to open before the elections, when you go as I know to say often all the lambs. You ate herds of lambs, herds, opening stone foundations. You've been laid stone foundations, I've laid them without a kuna, taken... and put a cornerstone. Start working. Stop moving Like, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatian Burns, stop moving Slavonia. And not you here boasting your good results of 2.4 billion euros, 18 billion kunas our citizens are deposited on the account outside, spent in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of credits or payments. In Slovenia there is 1%, no country, Ireland has never had that amount. Therefore, tomorrow is an important day, tomorrow is the budget, I believe that fellow MPs when I make amendments mainly from election units where these amendments will apply, but I will give amendments to everything you promised. ...that you'll accept them. We need investment, I won't even mention the funds, it's a disaster, the end of the financial period 2020 eu funds, you'll see which one we're defeating, we're at the bottom of the EU's spent funds. And that's the truth. If we go along with these truths and we tell the truth in the eye that it was convenient when we talk about subsidies, it was as great as it was. For many years, Todorovic and similar Todorovic and similar, the minister knows best if he is from that system and sent and does so because of it. And that's why the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic collapsed, you know why? Only one year where 2.5 billion kuna was reduced was Tihomir Oreshkovic's government if you couldn't control it. You HDZ gentlemen knocked him down with the help of the SDP, only because he wasn't listening to you. And the entire CNB system buys apartments now, the governor buys apartments for the CNB, doesn't take care of courses, water of course, but which is controlled exclusively for tycoons, therefore, it's time for the truth to be said, that the truth of the story, you forced this people out to pay you your praise and praise. You destroyed the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168537	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Zdravko Maric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168538	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Here, I would like to thank everyone for the debate, especially those who discussed the draft amendments and the addition of the State budget for 2019. And the out-of- budget fund plan, there were a couple of really constructive and quality discussions, so here I am looking forward to tomorrow's budget debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168539	Thank you very much. So I'm going to conclude a debate on these two points and we're going to vote when we get the conditions on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168540	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are now going to make a statement on the amendments to the proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projection for 2020 and 2021. In addition to the proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021, proposals for amendments and additions to the financial plans of non-profit users for 2019 and the projection of plans for 2020 and 2021 with an explanation for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency, the State Agency for Savings Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance are also being submitted. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club and MP Tomislav Panenic. With us is Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, who will manifest himself on the amendments submitted. There's four of them. Let's go to the 1st Amendment of the HSS and Democrats Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168541	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This amendment is not accepted by the Government. Therefore, for reasons of material expenditure in the context of the funding source at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is planned rationally or in accordance with the commitments and obligations that will necessarily be settled by the end of the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168542	It's obvious, colleague Vlaovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168543	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. The Honorable Ministers. With this amendment, we asked not to cut funds to the Ministry of Agriculture to finance the defence against the fight. As long as the Law on the Treatment of Fights is in force, the model of funding prescribed by law must also be respected and in the amounts agreed between the Ministry of Agriculture, County and the Insurance Houses Office. This reduction in the position of the Ministry of Agriculture to finance the Law of Defence against Fights proves what I also received in my written reply, that the defence against the fight was practically not carried out in the full sense of that word because no public procurement for the purchase of rockets in 2018 and 2019 was carried out. Moreover, at those stations where supplies existed, it was moving only east, as if we would only protect agricultural production in the eastern Republic of Croatia, and the rest of Croatia is not important. It should also be said that over 30 OPGs that have on their family holding have launch stations, popularly called rocketers, we are practically giving a message we will not finance defence against fighting, do not need those jobs in Slavonia, do not need those jobs in Croatia, it is part of the demographic policy of this government because what kind of government does not implement its own law, and you do not implement them because the Law of Defence of Fights is in force. If you haven't financed in the full sense of that word and how it is planned and budgeted, you haven't spent the funds for that purpose, then you either need the law to be abolished or you need to say we don't need a defense against the fight. So I think the whole of Croatia knows that agriculture is under the open sky and Croatia needs to know that this agricultural production must be protected. Or pay everyone 100% insurance policy even though you know that insurance policy can't compensate for the damage done on agricultural cultures, so I demand a vote on this amendment. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168544	Okay, we're going to the second amendment of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168545	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Otherwise, I can say, so the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food has reduced a whole series of administrative and non-taxal or parafiscal duties since 1 April this year, farmers in the livestock sector have been relieved by 17.2 million kuna, measures on the tax side, hence reducing the VAT rate for livestock, and also by implementing measures 4 under the rural development programme, all this points to the fact that livestock farming is on the high list of priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168546	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168547	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Ministers, we will ask for a vote on the amendment for all pig growers, because of all agricultural producers who are against this type of regulation before the cabin season. In fact, we respect the fact that there is a serious African swine fever at the door of the Republic of Croatia and that we must protect our production and our manufacturers. And it's okay to pass the law and sublegal regulations. However, when it comes to order measures, and these are ordered measures, to take biosafe measures on family economies, it costs. And also, to prescribe that three days before the cabin for personal consumption, pigs, as we say in Slavonia, must be invited by the veterinarian to examine these, these pigs' throats. Okay, that's necessary for protection, but that cost is too high for the OPGs. We have a growing number of OPGs dealing with pigmeat, we have only 30% sufficient in our own production of pigmeat in the Republic of Croatia, 70% and more imports, and if we now pass this extra cost on to family economies and holders, pigmeat owners, then surely some of them will give up on that pigmeat, pigmeat production, we are again creating preconditions for increasing imports instead of raising our own production. And this amendment provided for the means to implement these measures and to pay that cost from the state budget because it is of an orderly nature and it has always been a situation when it comes to order measures for veterinarians and veterinary services to pay for it from the state budget. It's not a big deal that the state budget couldn't handle, and they'd protect the pigs and save the pig's blood in Slavonia these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168548	We are now going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. One is an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168549	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government on the grounds that the proposed funds for the reduction at the position of the Ministry of State Assets are necessary to carry out the regular activity in 2019 and will be proposed to regulate the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide the necessary resources for the operation of Veleučište Hrvatska zagorje Krapina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168550	Maria, dear colleague Maria Puh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168551	Thank you. With this amendment, the Government has proposed its amendment, I am withdrawing an amendment that has been submitted, but would certainly like to mention the following. So this year there are 100 students enrolled at Veleučište Hrvatska zagorje Krapina, which is actually a small figure in the context of Croatia as a whole, but when we look at the Croatian Zagorje, this figure is very large. It is the first generation of students who have the opportunity to study free of charge on their own breast. The figure is also extremely significant if you consider that Krapina-Zagorje County is the last county in the Republic of Croatia by the number of highly educated, highly educated population. This figure is only the beginning, but it is actually one symbol of future opportunities, an opportunity for our Croatian Zagorje. I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of all current and future students for recognising the importance of the moment and with this amendment put the crown on a lot of effort, work and commitment for the future of our Zagorje. This has provided a start for at least 100-year-olds of new highly educated personnel who will hopefully stay to live in Krapina-Zagorje County, find a job on our beautiful banks, but also in the future to start their families. I also thank all other initiatives, other parties and persons that have affected the importance of solving this problem and have also contributed to our success today by putting 4 million kunas back on track for our university. It is 4 million and 100 kuna invested in the future of Zagorje. I firmly believe that only the university will use this given opportunity in the best possible way and will continue to work to adapt the program that will further enable our students to the best education and therefore later competences for their future jobs. Thank you all for working with your heart for our Zagorje.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168552	Thank you. We are now going to the 4th and last amendment for the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget for 2019. Here you go. Tomislav Panenić, excuse me, MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168553	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted. During 2019, the Ministry of Health has actively taken measures at monthly level with all participants and stakeholders of the health system in order to manage to reduce the outstanding obligations and general obligations of the health system, some 700 million kuna has been secured, and the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of an additional 122 million kuna. So, all together this year, an additional 822 million kuna. However, we are also aware that there is also a need to make additional steps in the health care system, and not just these exclusively finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168554	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168555	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Events that have been in the health system over the years show that the funds provided are not sufficient. The increase in health care contributions that almost 700 million kunas came into the health system in the end did not show any effect because the very work carried out in hospitals was carried out at interest positions. They didn't even touch the principal. So if we can't solve the health problems with these 800 million kunas, these 122 million kunas can really say it and you'll agree not enough and you said it yourself. So how are we going to help solve problems? You can reorganize, restructure that has no political will to carry out. Of course restructuring involves certain and negative measures, the politically negative measures that one should bear responsibility, the government, the health minister and you as finance minister must have a clear view of it. Therefore, if we are talking about the debt measured in billions, and we need to rebalance the item at 122 million kuna, then we have a problem. It's hard to accept the clarification you're giving, it sounds rationally, but we see that in the whole system it's not enough. It is not enough just to have rational words and be realistic that we should take care of the bulky side of the budget, that incomes are limited, so we do not pour hope and come to a fall of the entire health system because no one believes that without deciding the government's activities there can be significant shifts, especially if we transfer it to the responsibility of the counties. And my Vukovar-Srijem County, which is the manager of two hospitals, is aware that he cannot even touch the problem before, in the hospitals themselves, by means of his means, so I ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168556	Thank you. This is what we've come to the end of. We'll vote tomorrow. So, we start now, starting from the beginning of the proposal for amendments and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and projection for 2020 and 2021. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.13 HOURS]] In addition to the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021, the proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries for 2019 and the projection of the plans for 2020 and '21 are also submitted. with an explanation for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HZZO. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on the amendment tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present, so I would like to vote on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 80 for, 0 abstentions, 35 against the decision has been taken to conduct a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask the proposing representative to explain the amendment submitted. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, and Zrinašić is with us sorry. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168558	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Apprenticed representatives and representatives pursuant to Article 196. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Government of the Republic of Croatia, submits the following amendment to the proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and projection for '20. and '21. In the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget referred to in point 2 of the specific section behind Article 3, the change in the operating expenditures of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Science and Education allocated by the programmes in the specific part of the budget is proposed to redistribute in the amount of 2 million 794 000,198 kuna within the financial plans of the budget users in a way that reduces the funds of the Ministry of Finance and increases the resources of the Ministry of Science, Education for 2019. The redistribution of funds is proposed in order to secure the necessary funds for the Veleučište Croatian Zagorje Krapina. The proposed amendment does not modify the total amount of funds planned in the 2019 amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168559	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate, so I'm putting the amendments to the government to vote. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 80 votes for and 1 abstention, 25 against the Government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the amendment and the addition of the State budget. We now move to a decision on the amendments submitted by the club of representatives of HSS and Democrats, the Club of Representatives of Stanka Work and Solidarity and Independent Representatives and MPs Tomislav Panenic. We held the statement earlier at the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first amendment is that of the HSS Club and the Democrats, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 2 of the same club is not accepted by the Government, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3. The club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives has been withdrawn and the 4th is the amendment of MP Tomislav Panenic, the government does not accept it, so let's vote. Neither did he get the required number of votes, so now we move to a vote on the amendment proposal and the addition of the State budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution and Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the State Budget require the majority of all MPs, so 76 votes and I am voting on the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 82 for, 1 abstentions and 41 against, have been adopted, that amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021 have been made. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now going to vote on decisions, colleagues and colleagues, please there are a lot of us, and if we are all yelling, it is not possible to maintain normal order at the session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the amendments and the addition of the financial plans for 2019 and the 2020 and 2021 projections. First, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the changes and additions of the Croatian Waters financial plan for 2019 and projections for 2020 and '21. A year. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 80 for, 1 abstention and 33 against this decision, so let's go to decision number two. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the changes and additions of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2019 and the 2020 and '21 projections. A year. Please, let's vote. Most of the 79 votes for and 1 abstentions and 37 against the vote was also made. Third, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2019 and the 2020 and '21 projections. A year. Please, let's vote. And this decision was made with 80 votes for and 35 against. Fourthly, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2019 and the 2020 and '21 projections. A year. Please, let's vote. The decision came with 79 votes for and 38 against. Let's go to 5. This is a decision to give consent to the changes and additions of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 21st year. Please, let's vote. The decision was made with 78 votes and 38 against. 6th, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to amendments and additions to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's financial plan for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 21. Please, let's vote. I find that the decision was made with 80 votes for and 39 against. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I am voting on the proposal of the Conclusion: it is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the Proposer, a revision of the text Amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and a decision to amend and amend the financial plans of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, before their publication in the National Journal. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 80 for, 21 abstentions and 12 against, have concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168885	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 789 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, dear Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168886	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Honorable and respected MPs and representatives of HS, so before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In the term of office of this Government, the Ministry of Defence focuses on soldiers, officers and officers who are the centre of development and upgrade of HV, and the proposed law regulates issues relating to reception, service, deployment and professional development of military personnel. In order to strengthen the further development of HV, it is proposed to allow commendation and remuneration at the level of the company, as this level is the key to the functioning of the system at the tactical level. So far, the commander of the company has only had the possibility of sanctioning and punishing, and he has not had the possibility of commending and rewarding and amending the laws, so he also allows the commander of the company to commend and reward the soldiers. In order to further improve personal development, the possibility of deploying an active military person to a structural place is proposed two acts more than personal, and the abolition of restrictions on exceptional promotion to acts where there are special merits for the service, all to recognize and reward excellence, and to maintain a high quality fit. So far, according to the existing provisions of the law, there has been only one promotion in the course of the career, changes in the law do not limit that number, so that the active military personnel and several times during their careers can be promoted, as I said they can be deployed to a place that is two acts more than their own. In the field of education, it is proposed to increase the age limit for sending military personnel to the required level of education in order to meet the conditions for promotion in the higher rank and promotion in the service and in order to retain staff. In fact, the new Law on the Service of the Armed Forces also raised the level of when, or the age of, active military personnel leaving the law of service, making it logical to then increase the age for sending military persons to the required level of education. Given the first case of Croatian soldiers being injured abroad, the need to amend the law in that part has been recognised, and therefore the proposed law systematically regulates the problem in cases of death and heavy suffering of military personnel in the performance of the service. On this amendment of the law, we were first of all triggered by a tragic event a few months ago when our soldier was killed in a mission in Afghanistan and we hold and we feel that it is necessary by law to prescribe, so that all rights are achieved by the family of the dead Croatian soldier or, personally, if this is not the case, oh, death. This part will be completed and through the rule in, in, we will resolve it by regulation, but what should be pointed out here is that the basis for determining these rights will be the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, but that does not mean of course, and you have had opportunities to see in the media these days that the status of Croatian defenders is being spoken of, so of course they will not have the status of Croatian defenders, the war ended almost 25 years ago, but they will have certain rights under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, they will not, of course, have the right to participate in the Croatian defenders' fund, they will not have the right to share shares, as Croatian defenders did. As one of the demographic measures, and given the principle that active military personnel cannot choose duty and place of service, it is proposed that a professional soldier who is outside his place of residence has the right to compensation for the cost of transport for two trips per month from the place of service to the place of residence, so this is one would say significant this newspaper and that is essentially that trend, such as the material standard, the increase in the material standard of Croatian defenders and living conditions in the military, this applies naturally to soldiers who are in the military and therefore twice a month will have the right to travel to their place of residence at the expense of the ministry. I point out that the proposed law builds up and improves existing solutions to increase the functionality of further improving the defence system. And what is significant, for the implementation of this law, the funds are provided in the financial plan of the Ministry of Defence next year and I hope that you will support the proposal for this law on amendments to the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces. Of course, we are open to all the proposals that we will consider and see what can possibly be included in the final bill, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168887	Thank you, we have one replica of the respected representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168888	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome Mr. Ivić and Barac of the Moreh. To say, you were too modest to point out that Croatia is now 10th in place after 15 years on the NATO defence scale, which is a trend triggered by this government and the current minister who is headed by the MorH and this law is only one of the laws that this government has passed and which regulates material and labour law status and the conditions of active military personnel and these conditions are improving and towards civil persons who want to work and join the military. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168889	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168890	I agree with you colleagues and in the introduction I said that the Croatian soldier is at the centre of the system and that our efforts in the past 3 years in addition to the equipment and modernization of the Croatian army have been turned to the Croatian soldier and, above all, in terms of the increase and the material standard, as well as the improvement of the conditions in which the Croatian soldier is working and acting his duty and there are significant steps in a positive sense, and so is what you said, that at the level of separation, Croatia is in the upper half, I would say from the NATO member states, we have not yet reached those 2% declared as such in the NATO alliance, but we are not far from those 2% and I hope that in the near future, especially when the process is launched in the final phase, right, and when the financing of the acquisition of a multi-purpose fighter aircraft will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168891	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will speak to the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168892	Thank you very much. Dear secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments to the law go into two readings and it is good to discuss this issue and, of course, about the system of rewarding and advancement of soldiers, officers and officers of the Croatian Army because the Croatian army is a victorious army and I believe that the Croatian army should be held, it is the foundation on which a modern state was created, I believe that as a man who was 17 years old and most of it and a professional soldier, I do not think that the military should be humiliated as in one act that was humiliated. We have even threatened certain parts and visions of the Croatian army, such as Croatian aviation, so that because of the mistakes that occurred in the system as the mistakes of those who sent planes to the remont, they have returned them to parts of Croatia or this one which has not been solved so far, because these abilities of Croatian soldiers as it is necessary to speak about the Croatian soldier truth, as it was created in the Homeland War, as it freed Croatia after the 9th century... so it is necessary now to fight for the status of Croatian soldiers and it is good when you say that the soldier is at the centre of the ministry and the policy of the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, with a number of things happening within the Ministry of Defence system and which are visible, mainly as regards the OS schedule, i.e. The use of capacities in areas where risk areas are, these are borders, I would now only briefly say about progress. So, you said that the company is the one who can reward, praise, I don't know, I didn't see the rule of what a captain can actually do, the commander of the company can do and what all he can do rewards or I don't know what else he can do, but the fact that you said about promoting officers, officers, officers, you meant extraordinary promotions or regulars? Extraordinary promotion, good. So regular promotions go through his career, whether and up to certain grades according to his abilities and criteria in performing his job in the Croatian Army. Now that we're moving on to this key issue, I said earlier, the army schedule, I'm glad that the army was returned to Sinj, then we were together, then we were in the majority, I gave it absolute support because Sinj and the historical city and the borders are nearby and Ploče, we see what's going on in this area, I think our army has to be so deployed because of the faster intervention of the army in the event of a threat of any character and we know that in 2016 we've passed the Law on to the police, changes to the law where the Croatian military can do police work, and I think it's necessary as soon as possible. ... To assist the police, i.e. to assist the police at the request of the minister and I think it would be good to talk from this pay phone about the problem of migrants in the area in this case of our entire border, mainly Mr. Kotar, Lika, this part down the Dalmatian mountain, are simply our citizens in the border area terrified, are not sure about their property, it is simply necessary to include the army and it is legally possible because this home has passed the law that, I would have warned once again from this pay phone about everything that is going on, I was in the peak area, I know what is happening more in my area and down Neretva, Metkovic, in Lica, the population is afraid. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The property has been compromised and people are at risk, if anyone has an obligation to police and law, obligation and right is a Croatian soldier. I didn't say here that a Croatian soldier must have machine guns, but not four or five officers to guard for 100 thousand, who are trying, really doing their job in quality, cannot keep this one from including the Croatian army. That is why it would be good to include the Croatian army, because I am opening with this and this topic another where the dead Croatian members of the missions will exercise rights as well as Croatian defenders, the rights I speak without.../incomprehensible/... and of course I don't mind, but I am asking each other a question. A colleague mentioned earlier that we among the 10 who set out to defend themselves from their budget have already reached some standard, but it is not quite so in real terms, it is not so for the Croatian soldier. Is there a Croatian soldier on the mission with the same salary as the American soldier? The same threat to him in the same alliance we are, no. Is it like German? There isn't. I know I've been part of that system for years, I've been an officer in that system, a soldier officer, I've been through everything, so I know what's in that system. Well, it's past time that Croats only give heavy parts to their sons, and they will be rich in ox and paid well. Therefore, I expect the Ministry of Defence to be in this alliance, otherwise I am not for the poor to give sons, and the rich to the oxen, so unfortunately it was in the Homeland War, so in the end everything turns out in all the wars, I am in favour of equal pay, but if they leave, Croatian soldiers with other soldiers. We go to Lithuania for the border, we go on missions and we can't yet Minister Bozinovic doesn't invite those people, our army in which we invest, train, doesn't invite the military to help in the border area. The other day a man in the Vrgorak area opened a plastic and there were a lot of migrants inside, I think people were protecting themselves if I think so, but people can't afford to let themselves at 2 o'clock and call the police to take your vehicle from the garage and turn on the roof, who didn't even have a driver's license, who knows. So who's responsible for the damage that's about to take place? Fear is in these areas of people for property and security. I believe that this law, here I have taken this moment to say that the Croatian army that is in the military is carrying out its daily tasks that the obligation of this Croatian government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister of Defence, is to send a request and to protect the borders against the illegal entry of migrants and to protect the security of our citizens. It's our obligation under the Constitution and this home is our obligation to talk about it. To respect the law, if it is, I'm just calling for the law to be respected. I see Minister Bozinovic is saying the police can do this, but trust me, the police are doing their job maximum and the Croatian military must help the police. It is the cry of people with these areas who live in fear of personal security and the safety of their property. As far as this law goes, I believe that the amendments will be tried, you said you'd be doing part of the award and promotion rule, in that part I don't know how to influence what you think, but I think the triba rewards the most. I don't know about the extraordinary promotions they probably have and there's some data and indicators that people who would be able to stay in the system don't demotize because the turnout of people is probably a huge number of people coming out of the system unsatisfactory what they can't make, what they can't do, so it's probably one move for these people to stop and not be among those who are going to move out into other countries. And once again here I say the Croatian soldier should have the same rights as everyone in all missions, all operations, the same rights, the same finances all the same as the American soldiers or any other German, but that's funny, of course, because the one who gives his sons doesn't laugh. These people bleed not only for Croatian interest, and we Croats have always given our sons to fight for other people's interests and then it is time to protect and the Croatian soldier is someone's child, our family, ours, why in a subordinate position over a German soldier, is the Croatian soldier having more success than, in real operations, but all of the European armies in the last 40 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168893	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ and on behalf of which the respected representative Angelko Strick will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168894	... Secretary-General, the defence portfolio is getting more and more important across Europe, and a number of newspaper articles are telling us, for example. The German army will soon receive foreigners in its ranks, the German armed forces are planning for the lack of personnel to hire foreigners from EU countries, the chief military inspector said. [[Specially enabled.]] Sweden reintroduces mandatory military service. See where the military deadline is required in Europe and list Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland. Finland is officially on its way to the acquisition of fighter aircraft, wanting to buy at least 64 modern machines, etc. We are certainly talking about the most advanced countries in the world with high democratic standards with high democratic standards, the most socially sensitive, economically most developed, technical and technologically advanced and many countries that can set an example for us and for the care of the armed forces. In the mandate of the current Government, these are the third amendments and additions to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia aimed at improving the standards and conditions of life and work of soldiers, officers and officers, as well as officials and subsistence members of the HR. So far, changes and additions have been granted rights, such as field allowance, duty and guard service, as well as remuneration for voluntary military training, have also improved their accommodation capacity in the military, equal standard of nutrition, and new operational schedules. The return of the HV unit to Sinj, Varazdin and Ploče, and the following week to Pula, and the entry into Vukovar has improved family life for many of its members. These changes aim to provide further care for HR members, and provide for the possibility of re-accessing former military personnel in the service, a fairer positioning of officers who are medical doctors, medical experts, the age-old limit for schooling, the possibility for reserve soldiers who have completed the first level of military education to be assigned an act, to provide exceptional promotion for special merits multiple times during their careers, to improve the system of evaluation of active military persons, to establish that the conditions under which they can receive military medals from foreign countries and international associations, the way in which they establish health skills for military services, the termination of military services are cited by tighter procedures and the most serious problems of the service, and the most serious difficulties in the processing of the situation, and the need to be addressed. It is evident from all of this that the amendments and additions provide for the improvement of standards and living conditions and working conditions of soldiers, officers and officers, as well as state officials and subsistence members of HV and the Club of HDZ Representatives will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168895	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Franco Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168896	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, therefore, we at the SDP Club have no problem with the content of the law itself, and we welcome this content in part, which is what we call a problem, which is what separate people in principle are increasingly burdening the other side, which is the modernisation of the HV, and this was also the last meeting of ministers, as far as I know, in NATO or Brussels and on the other hand, visible from the budget rebalancing, visible from the previous budget for 2018 when modernisation was practically at the level of 2015, so bad, in short, if we have in mind that 2015 was a crisis year. What we also have a problem with this law, and it would ask you all to try to change until the second reading, I say before and I personally talked about people who return to the long country in a way that goes into international missions, that they participate in these missions and that their status should be regulated from the moment they return from the international mission, and through a number of other things including ultimately, and I know that they are particularly prone to careers, but including when they end their careers. What we cannot support is that the practical question of the injured soldiers in international missions is regulated in principle by the Law on Croatian Defence. So here, we would really ask you to try these two things to separate because they are the department, so the ministry can make its own rule, can, after all, propose the law, have our hands for it, is not, is not the problem of the height of the fee, is no problem at all. However, it would be good for it to be singled out because, however, international missions are the thing that is going on and it will happen in the future, it will not stop, the country war, you said in your presentation, it is already 25 years ago, therefore, it would be good for the ministry, given that these will continue in the international missions, that we will continue to work, unfortunately the job is such that these cases as we have had can happen and that God does not allow them to happen anymore, but it is possible. Therefore, it would be good for the ministry to adopt one of its acts in the form of the law, whether as a rule or as a rule, you see, you know better than I do how you can regulate it and thus practically resolve the status and the injured Croatian soldier, as well as those who are wounded in that action. So, because of that and only because of that we will be abstained from voting in the first reading, and I say until the second reading think about it and let us all try to make a proposal together that will help us separate it and be part of the Armed Forces Act, here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168897	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168898	Thank you very much. I just wanted to comment on a few things while my colleague Vidovic is here, and I would like to thank you first and foremost for the correct debate, but I must say first as far as these separations are concerned for the people. They don't, as I say, burden equipment and modernisation. We are very close to that ideal ratio which is the same declaration within NATO 50% for wages, 30% for material costs and 20% for equipment and modernisation. We're on the payroll this year for some, I mean 49%. Material costs are 31%, and 17.2 seems to me to be a detachment for equipment and modernisation. We are witnessing how we have continued the projects that are launched in the mandate of the former government, but we have also launched some new projects because the goal, of course, is to create a modern Croatian army, the appropriate time in which we live, but also, the fact is that without a satisfied man, there is no successful Croatian army. That's why I said in the introduction that man is still at the center of the system. They're free of all techniques, equipment, modern devices if you don't have a satisfied man. As for this other, regarding our soldiers, who, God forbid, are killed in missions, fortunately so far, we have only had one, the dead soldier Joseph Briscoe a few months ago, and this has prompted us to resolve this issue in more detail so that the families remain provided, provided, so that the children are provided and provided, and there is a law on the rights of Croatian defenders. I said in the beginning that we have no intention of Croatian soldiers in peacetime to work Croatian defenders, that it is only about rights, not status and not all rights that Croatian defenders or families of Croatian defenders have. And I agree with you that we may need to resolve this issue through the rulebook, this is the first reading, we are open to all suggestions, suggestions, we will consider all of this, and then we will prepare for the second reading a final version of which, hopefully, with which I hope that the vast majority in this House will be satisfied and consensual, and I hope that you will also support such a proposal, the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168899	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168900	Secretary of State, when we talk about the MORH budget, it is important to stress that at the time of the current minister's term, there is not a single acquisition that bears the mark of secrecy. So all purchases are public and transparent. But it is also important to point out, I would like to hear from you now, is the current budget, or is the projected financing of the MRLs, sufficient to achieve all of your planned objectives? So, to raise the standard of the lives of soldiers, officers, officers, to carry out all those planned military exercises and training, to carry out all the peacekeeping missions and, of course, to arm, equip and modernise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168901	The answer of the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168902	Well, I would say that the MORH budget is Croatia's reality and that, too, those of us who use these funds, we should be realistic and take care of the needs of other resolutions. And that, as you said yourself, and the minister has often pointed out that we must have feelings for others, but this means that we have, what is crucial and important to say is that the collapse of the defence budget has been stopped through those difficult years of the financial and economic crisis, that year after year we have a real increase in the defence budget and that sufficient funds are planned for the equipment and modernisation, to be taken into account in particular the material status and position of the Croatian soldier, the conditions in which he lives and works.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168903	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168904	Thank you. The Honorable Secretary of State, therefore, is not the issue of the scope of law, I said in my presentation, although we support it. So it's not at all a problem of the scope of the law just to be happier that since the HV is still turned into the future, it's regulated in the active morh. Not some other ministry. And I think it's a fair and correct request. If that's the situation that we need to bridge now for the family to get this moment what they need to get, let's not argue. Okay. Then she can agree to a solution like this. If I say so, just a bypass. But I think we certainly have to make our own law at Morh, and as far as this second part is concerned, yes, planning is like, however, you have a budget in 2018 that is practically at the level of 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168905	Thank you. Dear, esteemed, no, nothing, is it? Thank you very much. Now we're going to an individual debate. The first will be the respected representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Well, here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia which continues to seek to improve the system, work, promotion of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, after those years of devastration, humiliation, from diet to clothing, everything has actually been bad and systematic changes and additions to one standard that is actually in NATO standards and which Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, and thus this part of the law further improves. Everything still missing in the system and improving it is located, so it also enables improvement and education, education, leadership, command at higher levels with honorary acts, all defined by this bill and thus fully improving the system, enabling both evaluation and all that has been missing in the past three years in the Croatian Army and targeted over these 3 years has been improved, and in particular by this law which allows for the age-limit to be able to obtain conditions for the termination of the service by force of the law and all that has not really been regulated so far. I think this law is trying to get rid of and what hasn't happened so far, here, unfortunately, and it's happening again and I think there's just some things that need to be done in art. 39 In order for them to be clearer, if the damage to the organism that occurs not by the guilt of soldiers, officers or officers, whether in the mission, whether in the Armed Forces, on any field, should not be mentioned then 80% of the damage but by anything else, but from 20 onward, it is all covered and applied as the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences applies, they have the right and family, do not give God to the dead, our soldiers who are on missions, as it happened and I believe that this is the best solution because the single Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences has clearly said, and then apply that part to those who remain disabled from the Armed Forces, as well as to those who, God does not die. I believe that these legal solutions are a further step in improving, as I have said all the status issues, technological improvements, the ability to assess the work of tight responsibility, everything here is described, and I think that it should just continue to read further, with these small improvements concerning the regulation of the problem of severe suffering or any suffering in the OSRH, whether in missions or exercises on the ground of the Republic, neighbouring friendly countries, it is equally necessary to treat such status and there is only the part which may not have been sufficiently harmonised, until the second reading I believe that this will be definitely resolved and presented to the HS so that, here, here, further stimulate Croatian soldiers, officers and officers in their work, improved their work, improved their status, made possible further progress, but also encouraged young generations to choose the appointment of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, but so because they stimulated from 15-30% of those who are still in need to be able to be able to comply with the duty of the law. I welcome all these efforts made by the MORH headed by the Minister and by the Government's approval, I believe that human potentials will also be satisfied, as well as technological advances by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which show exceptional quality and skills in the conduct of duty around the world in NATO forces, only the praises given are a clear sign that the ministry is functioning immaculately, that this achievement of the 10th place on the NATO list is a clear indication that Croatia is caring for its soldiers, to take care of its security, to take care of the Armed Forces that are one of the pillars of the Croatian homeland. I congratulate you on everything you have achieved through so far all changes and additions to the law, as well as in the achievement of budgets for the needs of the Croatian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168907	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168908	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Djakic, as Croatian defender, wartime wartime invalid, president of HVIDRA, I think you are certainly one of the most familiar with the problem in the country. These amendments and additions to the laws of art. 131.b. The first time is predicted what to do with soldiers who are wounded or injured in the service. It is because of this article that one thesis is trying to obtain the status of a wartime military invalid, which is not true. So the law only predicts that they can set the example of wartime military people, and among other things, should new commissions be formed if they already exist that you are very familiar with this and similar problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168909	The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168910	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Strick, it is clear that the status of the Croatian defender from the Homeland War only has those since '91-'95. were in Croatian Army and Croatian police units and he is defined and cannot be changed. Right, the exercise of rights similar to that of Croatian military disabled persons who have been defined through the Ministry of Croatian Defence of the Commission,... Disabilities that have been decoded that it's 20%, 30%, 40th, and so on, all that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is all defined, why this would not belong to Croatian soldiers who were killed in the Armed Forces today and in missions around the world. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I believe that this is the best solution, they do not have the status of Croatian defenders, they have the status of Croatian soldiers, officers or officers who died in the Armed Forces and in missions and that is what is being stolen in public or who purposely serves to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168911	Thank you. The next replica is the respected Irene Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168912	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djakic, you have highlighted what is most important, changes to this law, that is, this law. What should be said is that it is intended to achieve and realize that the tragically deceased Croatian soldier in 2019, his execution is equally valuable, so to speak, as well as the one who died in '92. I am talking about tragically deceased soldiers, so their families must know that we are taking care of them in a way that they will not get one or two months' help but will now have equal status because the Croatian soldier is a Croatian soldier, regardless of whether he died in 2019 or '92. No one reduces the importance of soldiers in the Homeland War, however, they have, in every sense, a special pitet in accordance with this law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, but we also cannot do injustice and that is the purpose of this law, one of the objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168913	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Irena, it is clear that the rights stemming from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers can also be applied to the mortally injured Croatian soldiers. It's not that it's status, it's the law. It is not a privilege as some colleagues and malicious journalists call it, but it is the right that stems from the law. For Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, police officers, Croatian defenders, and today for those who did not commit their suffering or do not give God, death, the same rights apply to them from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. That must be clear. Once again, someone threw into the air something that does not stand, that they acquire the status of Croatian defenders, which is not true, they have the status of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, and the rights of Croatian defenders under the Law on the Rights of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168915	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168916	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Djakic. The HV lives with its people, the people feel their own army, and therefore there is also a strong faith in the Croatian people and the Croatian soldier deserves a decent life, especially after everything that has passed in the Homeland War, and we have witnessed that it has not always been, we have witnessed that here until the arrival of this authority that the general dignity of Croatian soldiers has been really threatened in both material terms and in the achievement of the rights and in the achievement of living conditions and everything, and this authority has significantly improved and resolved a number of issues, from duty, guard service, various fees, food, accommodation, working conditions, increased budget by armed forces, etc. And it's interesting that the most interesting thing about it is that those who have abolished those rights, it's a little hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168917	The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168918	Thank you very much. Comrade Škorić, you've noticed yes. There was a time when both the guard supplement and the night supplement and all the special units supplement and for divers the supplement, when they were abolished and, I don't know if it was dessert or soup, which was in the diet exactly. I know when there was no concern for the Croatian soldier when he was actually on the sidelines, when there were reduced benefits for voluntary service in the Croatian Army. Here, thank God that's right. Thank God everything went back, that even today there are fees in this transport law two times a month that are available, and also for housing or the entire housing fee if the spouses in the army are in the same area or half, 50% of one marriage mate can be realized it is also defined in this law and I believe that this will also serve the well-being of the Croatian Army. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168919	The next individual debate will be those respected representatives of Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168920	Thank you very much, Vice President. As I said, retaining high-quality personnel in the military is one of the main objectives of this law, and it is not only a problem for us in Croatia, although our country is most important to us and is always on the pedestal of what is a problem in Croatia, but we must be aware that this is a problem in all other NATO Member States, and even in some who have twice the budget of Croatia. I'm listening to my colleague Bulja, who spoke with all due respect, not to the arguments because you're saying that this budget, i.e. MORH, so this law and this government did not do enough for the Croatian Army, that they do not value enough Croatian soldiers, so I ask you to stop misleading the Croatian public because it is not true that the Croatian soldier is worth less than American, no one has said and it is not true and it cannot be because this government has done more for the Croatian army than 3 other governments, and you know well what governments I am talking about and these are such demagogue stories that I would not expect from you who were a respected Croatian defender. So what else did this government do than all the time brings a package of improvements to labour, material, and social conditions, not to mention the technological modernisation of the Croatian military, which is what the second government has been doing this precisely this 3 years, which is exactly what it was doing. It means improving working, material, social, so if you want technological conditions for Croatian soldiers. And now to say that a Croatian soldier is not appreciated today, that it's worth less than some other soldier, so that's really sad, and I wouldn't expect it from you. What's important to point out here, and I just replicated my colleague Djakic, so a few good, really necessary measures have been passed by this law. One was pointed out by his colleague Djakic, a colleague, Strick, pointed out everything because he had more time. What needs to be pointed out, there will now be the possibility of military scholarships for high school students who are trained for aviation technicians, and that is a marked, pronounced deficit interest. This means if someone from the poor family was from Slavonia, either from your neighborhoods of colleagues Bulj, and there is no money, and the boy is smart and wants to be an air technician and he will be paid to get out of school and stay in the Croatian army and serve the Croatian state. It's one of the measures of this law. Also what we said in the case of the tragic death of the Croatian soldiers we saw the last case unfortunately in Afghanistan. How do you think his family felt when they were paid one-time cash aid, and they also lost a son like someone from your neighborhood or Slavonia or Zagreb just 10 years or 15 years ago. He was also killed under the Croatian flag and under the Croatian coat of arms. We do not say and we will not compare and measure but the tragic death of Croatian soldiers is a tragic death of Croatian soldiers and do not let God be in the future. And now what my colleague said, it's not that, it's not the same status, it's just the same rights, it's just the same rights. And also when it comes to wounding, heavy wounding, so from 20% to 80%, so from easy to hard, then the law on the rights of wartime disabled and peacetime military peoples applies. That's what's important to say. And when we compare Croatia to the United States, then let's go tell some facts. So, what's important to say is that America's annual budget is 716 billion dollars, so you colleagues Bulj are now not in the assembly to calculate how little is the Croatian budget and the US military is the world's leading military force. We really can't compete with America with our best wishes in terms of detachment of money from the military budget. I wish we were like America about giving out money for the army, I would, but we're not because we can't be. Apart from having nuclear arsenals, high-tech weapons and all the technology modern weapons they have, I don't know, 13.450 aircraft. 13.450 aircraft, 75 submarines and 20 aircraft carriers. And now we're going to compare Croatia with America and we're going to deceive the people and we're going to say that the Croatian soldier isn't worth the same as the American because he doesn't have the American salary, so it's a demagogy that can't be higher. I'm really surprised and I can't believe I heard this. What's important to say is that there are some ideas here in the towers that the MORH shouldn't have as many budgets as there are. So on the one hand, one is saying that the budget is too small and should be as American as crazy, unfortunately it's crazy because we can't have so many, and on the other hand they complain and say Croatia has too many budgets. And now you tell me who's crazy in this whole story. Those who object that the MORH has too much budget think that Croatia obviously does not need the military industry, that they do not need active military forces, and we know that they are not aware that we are living in turbulent times, they are not aware of the geopolitical position of Croatia and have not learned some lessons from the past so that they know what can possibly wait for us in the future. Because our position in Southeast Europe is such that we need the defence forces very much because if we do not have the defence force then our future generations will not inherit Croatia in this form because without the defence forces we are losing our independence, and that ultimately means the loss of our territory, and we have already bloody learned that lesson once and for all, and we do not want it to happen again. So those who object that it is a large budget of the MORH are wrong, as are those who object that Croatia should have a budget like America. Croatia has a budget that is optimal, which at this time is the best, which is developmental and which has really made it possible for the MORH to develop that development that did not have in the last, and I will not say how many years you have been smiling, but you know that I am right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168921	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168922	Dear fellow I don't know is you, I think you are a woman, I respect you, but to me that you speak against the Croatian soldier, you were an 18-year-old professional soldier, that I spoke against the Croatian soldier, I said that the Croatian soldier must have the same salary as the American, minimum, if we are already walking through Brussels and NATO corridors, then the Croatian soldier must have the exact same salary in missions. And the Croatian soldier is a winning army, the Croatian soldier is a commanding soldier and he is the foundation of the Croatian state. And you to lecture me with an absolutely fictional story, because you didn't have a touch, I was an 18-year-old system checker, I was in the army, so I was a soldier for 17 years, you know what 17 years is, not a day 17 years old. And you're talking about an army that's humiliated by missions with wages according to American, German, French and others. And this government of forces protects its borders, let alone go somewhere, there is no power.../The speakers speak at the same time/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168923	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168924	A colleague of mine has nothing to do with the military. If I was old enough, I'd probably be in the army, you wouldn't know that, I appreciate your participation in the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168925	Don't throw my friend Bulj out of the bench, please be polite, now that you're doing this sexist act for you co-workers that she's a woman, at least be nice to her if she's a woman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168926	Thank you very much, Vice President. I can deal alone with my colleague Bul, I believe that the Croatian army is never humiliated or humiliated and that it is not the only criterion through salary, although the salary is very important. The pay is important, but to deceive the people that the Croatian army can be paid as American is funny. Because America is the world's leading force and the budget is $716 billion a year. So if you can pay the Croatian soldier that much, you give it, but you won't give it because you won't be able to. That is why the Croatian government is leading a serious and responsible policy and gives as much as it can for Croatian opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168927	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168928	Fellow Members, if we were to conduct a survey in the Armed Forces today from 2000 to today who was the best defence minister or which ministry leadership was your best since then, I guarantee you that 90% of them would have responded that this was currently under the direction of General and Minister Krstičević. Comparing Croatia and the United States, I think, is impossible, if you want population, area, GDP, per capita income is simply incomparable. However, the secretary of state pointed out today, and the minister often emphasizes the state of the economy, the Croatian Army is not well but is excellent and trained and equipped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168929	Honorable representative Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168930	Thank you. We say all the time that we're talking objectively, that we're making arguments, that we're doing as much as we can, that the ministry really increases the budget, that we're from 16th place in 10th place, that the MORH budget this year was 5 billion kuna, which is 500 million more than last year and much more, much more than the years before some others were in power. That is why it is best to deceive the Croatian people and to say that it is not good, that everything is minorized which is well done in a way that is false, and that is really enough in this Croatian assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168931	The next replica is the respected representative of Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168932	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague talking about the relationship between certain options when we talk about the status of Croatian soldiers, rights, obligations. I'm glad that here is the Resort Ministry in this way when it sees problems, life problems here and like the regulation of the status of people who are suffering from peacekeeping missions or during the performance of the task to regulate it because we have seen in the past that, unfortunately, many have left the Armed Forces precisely because of inadequate relations, due to poor living conditions, due to the climate created and the positions where the Armed Forces have been pushed to the margin. So now the different circumstances are me and the information I have from my friends, so the comrades of the people who stayed in the army are very positive. And I think it's absolute support for all of this, and it's inappropriate for someone today to say they're complaining and they're looking for more rights when they're making a budget for the military, then they're investing amendments to get off the military, the police budget, and so on. Well, then the public listens to us, follows us, so let's be consistent with everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168933	Honorable representative Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168934	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Škorić, you have absolutely said everything exactly how you are in this problem for a long time, and I really think that sometimes the Croatian soldier who is happy to have received compensations that he did not have 5 or 10 years ago, who is aware of the reality, who is aware of how well he can and who is aware of the good intentions, enthusiasm and will invested by the minister and the ministry and this government than those who sit in this assembly and gossip and encourage hate speech and encourage conflict and division, as well as on the subject of the Croatian soldier and Croatian Army. We wouldn't expect that, but it's clear arguments and facts that we've just done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168935	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168936	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to speak because I said at the beginning on behalf of the club, however, untrue colleagues from HDZ who in continuity I could now talk about everything that happened with Croatian soldiers, the Croatian Army and what injustices were done to the Croatian soldier from arrest, location, transfer to anything that happened to Croatian soldiers, humiliation and during the HDZ fellow, you know. Croatian generals have been humiliated, arrested, located, transferred, issued national interests. So Croatian soldiers, Croatian generals were published most during the time, listen well to what I say to my colleagues, during HDZ, I listened to you. Processed. So when we talk about the Croatian soldier, I said in the beginning, and while we were in the majority that I supported everything regarding Croatian soldiers and Croatian troops and the deployment of the Croatian army mainly in areas as borderline as it is in January. However, the fact that a Croatian soldier does not have the same conditions in the NATO alliance as other soldiers do, that is a fact. And the Croatian soldier is the best, the most honorable, and everything that was betrayed by or by the governments of the example of Ivo Sanader, those who were then in the government, was also the secretary, what they had betrayed, arrested, located, transferred as Croatia was being robbed, now the second pair of dangers. So I was talking about the Croatian soldier, saying the truth about the Homeland War was needed. However, we must not underestimate that the Croatian soldier has worse conditions, worse pay than another soldier when he is our more capable soldier. Because the Croatian soldier has done more operations, liberating operations only "Storm" than all the European armies that are in all the operations. That's a fact. But the Croatian soldier has been humiliated long ago to be courted by European officials. The Croatian soldier was humiliated when their warlords were persecuted, do you understand my colleagues? When Vladimir Shakespeare, the creator of this government, means the creator, said to arrest, locate and transfer. And the fact that I blocked it, that I was speaking against this law, no, I said it was good to go in first reading, that the rules were good and that progress could be well secured. But as far as the mission is concerned, we won't agree. Not on this part that the Croatian soldier who has the damage, which is, not to be not the status of Croatian defender but to have the same conditions as the Croatian defender, to have his family or him, means I have no problem with it. And this is the first reading and going to the second reading. Are we going to differ in whether it should be another law, a special law, I have no problem that the Croatian soldier has the best conditions and I absolutely agree that in the event of injury or injury or something like that, that the Croatian soldier has those rights. I have not said a single sentence, my colleague, I did not say against the Croatian soldier but, in fact, I support the Croatian soldier and the first time they are here because I was born in the Croatian army. I don't see where you read it, you make up enemies, you need to invent enemies, that I speak against Croatian soldiers, that's right to you, some others are working with you against Croatian soldiers, who have been cheating in The Hague, and ask questions about it, and then you see, through the replica, ask me, here I was short. As far as the law itself is concerned in the first reading, I don't know how it's defined, you just said by the rule, I don't know how that law will go. As for the progress and security, the survival of people in the Croatian Army, the attraction of people in the most elite Croatian army, I will raise my hand every time, that's what I did in the Defence Committee, and I will never say against the Croatian soldier because I have no interest in saying it. And if we came back to talk about the Croatian soldier now, I mean, I don't want to open now because of the future of the Croatian army of that wound. So who's the most... Here I am... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who was persecuting the Croatian commanders? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who was the most persecuting them? Who located, arrested, humiliated these people, who humiliated the Homeland War, who spit on the Homeland War? Who, and the Croatian soldier? And now it's a fictional story that I said against the Croatian army. And the creator, the welder of this government, Shex, said it. Locate, arrest, transfer, process. It is the greatest humiliation, the largest four sentences, the most evil that could have happened to a Croatian soldier, a victorious Croatian soldier. It's the worst thing that could have happened. 6 people who were in The Hague from BiH with the late General Praljko, no one has ever visited them, General to Minister Sprlje, do you know that? No one ever visited them, as if they were fighting their own absolute war. It's facts, but I didn't want to talk about it. I just said that the Croatian soldier deserves the same status in NATO, financial rights if he's on a mission, I speak on a mission, sometimes the defence minister's election, our government, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168937	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first replica is the respected representative Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Bulj, I understand that you are focused only on what happened and what Vladimir Seks as president of the Croatian Parliament read the conclusion of the National Security Council session that was chaired by someone else then and chaired by Mesic and Sanader as co-chair and it was President-in-Office who was the rapporteur from that session who was going to happen and how it would happen, but I'm sorry you're not talking about what happened in 2000 with 12 generals. After a letter warning only of events in society, of the disgrace of the Homeland War, of the occurrences that damaged the Croatian state at the time, you did not mention any of the words of Mesic and his shameful act of retirement of 12 generals. I know this is a severe epic with General Gotovina, with General Markac, with General Cermak, they have defended their dignity, the dignity of the Homeland War, the Hague has persecuted them but not the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168939	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168940	Absolutely, what Mesic did, I am one of the promoters, i.e. I suggested that Stjepan Mesic's office be abolished and I have no problem with it, and I did so solely because of such behaviour towards Croatian generals, the Croatian army that was, and even that man was playing, i.e. foreign journalists in their archives that they filmed and disrespected the entire role of creating the Republic of Croatia. So I had absolutely no problem with it, I just called to say that my colleague said that I was speaking against the Croatian army, that I was speaking against the Croatian soldier. Well, I'm in... 17 years was, so I can't imagine it, I mean, I believe I'll do everything I can to a Croatian soldier, which I can do better, and I'll try and do it, and I'm sorry we don't have any planes, that the public procurement failed, or that the planes from Ukraine were brought to a cariole in parts, during Milanovic, I'm sorry, but you say that the Croatian soldier doesn't deserve the salary of an American soldier, I don't agree with that, three times... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168941	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168942	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't say what you said I said. So you know exactly what I said, you know what you said. The Croatian soldier is not humiliated, that's the point because he has less pay than the American. When Croatia is America, then the Croatian soldier will get paid as American and that's the point. And deceive the public that it can be when it can't be, that's crazy, that's what I said. Maybe the Croatian soldier was humiliated before and you know it because you're a defender, but it's certainly not now. And don't use this debate for the election campaign of your presidential candidate who said you should send an army to the border because that's exactly what you did for a good part of the debate. The Croatian soldier is not less valuable but currently cannot be paid as an American.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168943	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168944	Well, fellow Members, I didn't speak at all about the presidential candidate, although I agree with Miroslav Skor in that view that the military is going to the border, if it can go to Lithuania, if it can go to Afghanistan, if it can go to Iraq, why can't the Croatian soldier secure it? I was in Vrgorec before him and I was with these people and I saw that people were in trouble. So here again I agree with the statement because the only presidential candidate who told the military to help the police and it was based on the law, I even said that it was passed in law 2016, passed in law. Therefore, the army at the borders of Croatia and the military is the best that Croatia, the Croatian soldier and the truth about the Croatian soldier should emerge. And don't think that you are the only protectors, only those who are in HDZ that he is the only protector of Croatian soldiers. There were other... Croatian soldiers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168945	The next replica is the respected representative of Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168946	Thank you very much. Here's my esteemed colleague Bulj, your exposure has practically gotten away from the topic that's on the agenda today. But it's understandable to me that you're driven by frustration, that you want to pack up some things, that you're producing an individual now, that you're pulling some people out of HDZ. We can discuss in the given times and circumstances who managed, who was good, who was bad, the subject of protecting the dignity of the Homeland War, we can still discuss these things today, but don't selectively extract only individuals from HDZ and thus pack and use them for the policy of the occasion. You have opportunities when here is brought and the budget of the Ministry of Defence to make concrete proposals, based on how to fix an additional state. We see that this government headed by the minister has made a very scary one-step positive, so let's not argue and send an ugly message to the public. If we are now unique in that the army is well and we should be better off not going back to some... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168947	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168948	So I don't know where you saw me arguing, I'm basically on behalf of the club when I spoke at first even affirmatively speaking more than affirmatively about this part, except for this part where I said it would be. Okay, I used this law to say that the Croatian soldier has this ability, i.e. He has the legal authority to go to the border. And of course the tribune tells the truth, why shouldn't we tell the truth? Who arrested the generals, located, transferred to whose time? Who's the toast? I won't mention it, so you know who's toasting Carla del Ponte that's easy to see. It was a humiliation of Croatian soldiers and a blow to the foundations of the Croatian state. And you remember that when Sanader, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic toasted with Colinda, it is a visible and glorious arrest of Ante Gotovina in Spain. It's a famous picture, it's not a lie and it's the only truth. But I didn't until my colleague said that I was speaking against a Croatian soldier. I'm just saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168949	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the closing statement will be held by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168950	Thank you very much. Here I would finally say that I am from this debate, I am sorry that my colleague realized that I was saying something against the Croatian soldier, I was not in my dream, nor will I ever say anything against the Croatian soldier, but I will always do my best to be true about the Croatian soldier because the Croatian soldier was created in the Homeland War and that truth should be told. And I think she was here right now, and I don't know why you realized it that way, but I'd say about these laws now, about progress means she's coming down from battle to company. I think you've probably done it in a studio way, and as far as going on a mission, I'm going to say one more time, the Croatian soldier has no better soldier and no greater success results than the Croatian soldier. A Croatian soldier freed the area within 24 hours of Kosovo's size. The Croatian soldier is capable, the Croatian soldier stopped Chetnik Ratko Mladic and the Chetniks in BiH, preventing the slaughter of a crime worse than in Srebrenica in a bullish enclave. The Croatian Army deserves these troops, deserves its successors and tells the truth about the Croatian soldier. But when we talk about part of the mission, if we don't have the strength to protect our citizens and send the army to the borders, and we have this legal possibility, that's the problem that you colleagues probably misunderstood. We have a law where the Croatian military can help the police, and the minister does not call, but our citizens do not feel safe. Imagine a young woman and a man, a young family just having a child in two hours called the police that their car was stolen from the garage, that they found it turned to a roof at the border with BiH. I only said in this context that the military would come out, that the Croatian soldier in the missions deserved pay, and that our government and the Ministry of Defence would fight NATO within NATO to support such an army is a better army, ours is the best, there is no better soldier than the Croatian soldier. But our soldier should not only be a servant of one's, let's watch the interest of Croatia. And this Dom, that's what this House is supposed to talk about, and it didn't hurt me or hurt me, but I figure we've opened up a little debate, and so thank you for telling me that. The same thing that I disagreed with, I set an example on the agenda I gave here so that there wouldn't be a European People's Party here. So we must not trade with everything, so we must not trade with our truth about the Homeland War or the Croatian soldier. The Croatian soldier has first of all the role to protect being in the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is a priority. and for this reason, I stress once again in good faith, I urge you before the Government to help the Croatian soldier urgently to help the Croatian police at the border if citizens do not feel safe, and they are not sure about their property either. And that's one call I'm using right now. Once again, is there a representative of the government, a representative of the Department of Defense, I think it's a minimum of what citizens expect from the field I was with those citizens. It doesn't matter what the presidential candidate said, is that my position. I'm sorry that other candidates and presidents and who the next president and president has never done before, I'm sorry. So the Croatian Army at the border in the case of migrants and to help the police do police work what was founded both by law and by the Constitution in the finality of the Republic of Croatia. So this is the first reading, I think that it will not happen and we all expect that someone will lose their lives, but a military call is a difficult call and of course you need to protect these people, they need to be provided with everything because they are still a Croatian soldier, yet it is above all a profession that is very honorable, difficult, you should be loyal and you should spend your whole life devoted to being a Croatian soldier 24 hours as a Croatian soldier. So until the second reading, we think we'll propose, and we hope the government's representative accepts it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168951	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Tomislav Ivić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168952	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I would like to thank you for the debate on the amendment to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. I think the debate was actually correct when you followed the law itself and I really thank you for that. I will not enter your debates that had nothing to do with the law, we remain open to suggestions that we will consider and see what of what I have said we can accept. And just one more thing, Mr. Bulj, is true in 2016 the Law on Defence was amended in this sense that the Croatian Army can assist the Croatian police in protecting the state border. Then some of them said that we militarized society that there was no need for the military to take over police affairs, I'm not saying that you said that, but I remember a very good debate from that time. Let's be realistic and let's say what's true, the Croatian police are doing a great job and protecting the Croatian border and I believe and I am sure that this is how the Minister and the Prime Minister and all the responsible people in this country believe Minister Bozinović when he says the police control the situation and there is no need for the engagement of the Croatian Army. The Croatian Army is ready at all times for countless times so far and has proved to intervene whether it is natural disasters, whether it is fires, floods, etc., if there is a need and if there is such an assessment that the Croatian Army should engage, it will engage within a few hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168953	We have a replica of a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168954	Dear Secretary, it is clear that the Croatian Army, as you say, can do police assistance under the law, let's say the police are shorter by law, but the fact is that police officers are also doing their job as best they can, but they lack people, it is a huge border, it is too much border, there are very few people in that area, but they are doing everything they can. That's why, because we're not blind, I mean, people came in, they stole a car from the garage to a man who lives alone with his wife and kid, and he's been called by the police to steal his car, and he's got such numerous examples. At the same time, the van tried to steal itself. I therefore believe that the foundation of the law of the military is going to help our police to do their job well but there are not enough people. Therefore, urgently stop migrants from entering illegally and thus protecting our population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168955	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow on Thursday at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for 2021 and 2022. Have a nice evening. The session was interrupted in 19.39 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-06-0.u168956	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 789. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the following conclusion: “1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Please vote. I find that most of the 80 votes for and 29 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, I welcome you all. Today we start with the points of the agenda: - Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for the year 2021 and 2022 - In addition to the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projection for 2021 and 2022, with an explanation, it is also submitted: - Proposed financial plans for extra budget users for 2020 and projection of plans for 2021 and 2022 with an explanation for: - Croatian Water - Croatian Roads - The Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund - The State Agency for the Insurance of Savings Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance - Center for Restructuring and Sales - Croatian Highways - Zagreb - HZ Travel Transport - HZ Infrastructure. and - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, second reading, P.Z. No. 791. Comrade Bull, come in. What do you need?
