ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123878	Thank you, the next colleague, Davor Vlaovic, is on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123879	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club a few words about national interests and when it comes to national interests of Croatia, then there is the Croatian Peasant Party against issuing or selling national resources and issuing national interests. Why do I point that out, so we know that we were saying that we are against selling state agricultural land or handing over state agricultural land, a source of drinking water, a forest of Croatians, we are against selling or handing over to foreigners. And what happens today in Croatia? So what is happening is that this national resource, state agricultural land, through a series of laws, a sequence of interest from the Government and the Minister of Agriculture, is favoured by new owners, concessions or lease contracts, over 32.3,000 hectares of state agricultural land, the most fertile land in Croatia is transferred to companies, the Agrokora mirror company, for which we don't even know who owns it. Whether the owners of the Russians are based on the capital of European banks or on the American capital of American scavenger funds. And the prime minister said yesterday, so it doesn't matter who owns it. That it should not matter who owns it if Croatian national interests are kept, and nowhere in the settlement, nor in the contract with new mirror companies has what the Croatian Peasant Party asked for, to protect domestic production and jobs in those companies. We asked that for at least five years there should be no layoffs of workers in these companies, it's not built into a settlement. We asked that the new owner should not shut down or transfer some production from these companies to areas where it would be more financially profitable for them, as the new owner of his profits will certainly do, as he had previously moved the production and processing of meat from Belja to Vrbovac. And what about those jobs in Slavonia, Baranja, Srem, that nobody cares, so it doesn't matter who owns it. It doesn't matter to the prime minister, but it's important to us from the Croatian Peasants' Party. And it is not fair that more than 20 mayors and mayors from Slavonia and Baranja are now being pressured to sign the annexes of these contracts on the transfer of lease contracts and concessions to these new mirror companies. Is it possible to transfer the lease and concession agreement to new owners, new users without him settling all obligations to local, regional self-government and state units? The law says he must not, and you see here he is allowed under this law, and if all debts to the state of Croatia to the Bank for Reconstruction and Development have not been settled, over 60 million credits to Agrokor have not been returned and a number of other funds are not settled, it is overly overrun. So I'm asking if we're all equal before the law, whether our family agricultural holding to which the contract expired, and the new tender hasn't yet been announced whether they'll be awarded a lease or concession contract even though they haven't settled their obligations to the local self-government unit based on the contract. No, he won't. Not only to the municipality, but also to the state if it has a tax debt, it will not be passed on to it. So what we are, in our country in Croatia, we are not equal before the law. A concession may be granted to a foreigner, although not all the debts of the previous period have not been settled, and the family holding cannot have that concession. That's not how you run a state, that's not how you protect national interests. And what the attitude towards state agricultural land has been saying is that for two years now no new competitions have been opened. The programmes for the availability of state agricultural land that municipalities and cities have made have been restored, back. Because they were unclear instructions and are now again required that units of local self-government question, that they go into programme adoption procedures, that they correct the shortcomings because they had to comply with 19 new regulations that the minister failed to adopt in time. That's the real reason, and now it's the mayors of the municipalities that don't have a competition. I said, God forbid it's the first contest to St. Matius last year, 29th, and here it is. Anto, and I congratulate all the Antuns and the Ankics, and they celebrate the name of the day today, but here's the competition yet. And the attitude towards state property is the best example in Đakov where the state property is alienated, the minister is destroyed and the director is not allowed and the board of directors is not allowed. I'm asking that the director's shift, that the board of directors be replaced, and that he resign because he didn't respond in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123880	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123881	Debate No. 11, colleague Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the club of representatives of the HSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123882	Thank you, President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, here is the position on behalf of the HSS Club on the Croatian Industrial Destroy Plan. Rather than having industrial growth and development, the strategy of industrial development, in the Republic of Croatia looks at the scene of the plan of destruction of the Croatian industry, the closure of jobs, and it is obvious at the very end. These days, the current strip is the solution to the problems in shipbuilding, in Uljanik and 3. Maju, where here, for years with invested large billions, we still have no solution that this company works, that 2000, 2500 workers have jobs and salaries there, and plus we will pay tax money on bail days or foams for unsupervised ships. Here, that's how it is to shipbuilding. It's similar, unfortunately, in the wood industry. These days, Croatian forests conducted a tender for the distribution of logs and instead of taking care that the wood industry in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, where and the largest raw material stock of oak and beech logs, our wood industry in Slavonia received them below the required quantities. For example, the wood company Spačva Vinkovci showed and proved that through its processing capacity it could spend 86 000 cubic metres, they only got 50. They could thus employ 200 more people, but in this way they would obviously have to reduce the number of jobs, and instead of looking at the better ones in Asia, Thailand, Korea, Malaysia, Asian tigers who raised their production, and they raised it in a way that made it impossible for foreigners to enter their property, made it impossible for foreigners to buy land and raw materials there, we protect domestic industry, we do the opposite, we open the door to everyone, yes, we are a member of the EU and we have to, but we do nothing to protect the domestic industry, here is an example of shipbuilding, for example in the wood industry, for example in Sisak, where they said they would rule, that they would deny and will not deal with politics if they shut down production in the Sisak Refinery. Unfortunately, here is the announcement that this will still happen, and they remain in government and politics. So much for being credible. And what particularly bothers me and bothers us in Slavonia is that the state has promised those companies that it has taken off the list of strategic companies, that it will deal with them with the care of a good master. Well, here's a good master's march these days to put out 200 jobs in Djura Djakovic's industrial solutions. In 2015, it gave up the electrical installation and the business, now giving up industrial solutions, steel structures and heavy halls. And who's to blame? Well, probably just the workers because they'll go to the stock market with minimum severances from 5 to 50,000, so you live with it. What is this message to them after 98 years of the existence of this company? And to be absurd, the state gave a guarantee in November for a 76 million kuna loan to buy machines, to get into investments, to open up new jobs, and now that money will be spent on severances. So I'm asking here the Resort Minister and the Government's competent government to change that failed administration because it's not the wrong workers who know how to do the job, but the guilty failed administration has been politically brought from the HNS and HDZ to Djur Djakovic, all the employees and trade unions say. However, no one listens to them, they must obviously go into protests because otherwise they will not be able to resolve their rights. And it is not enough just to restore only the buildings and facades in Vukovar to create jobs, it is not enough that only the president is wearing a zenge, to buy Croatian, to buy Borova products, but to invest in these jobs help these factories, harvesters' salaries in Županja are not paid to workers. Is this the Slavonia project and concern for the development of Slavonia, it is obvious that one unionman says the last bullet to the Croatian forehead in the Croatian industry. But there's something good going on, and it won't have to shoot anymore, because it won't have anything to shoot at, there won't be any industry in Slavonia if it continues to care like this, as well as a good lord for Djuru Djakovic and other companies in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123883	Let's move on, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the HSS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123884	Thank you, Honorable President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, today on behalf of the HSS Club, I will talk about Croatian agriculture, import and import problems, which have been mentioned in the last few weeks, which the problem has been mentioned in the Croatian public and I want to further potentiate the problem because simply because of Croatian citizens, consumers and Croatian agriculture, we cannot keep quiet about this problem. A concrete statement that there is no meat in the shelves of Croatian shops from two Polish slaughterhouses, says citizens of the Republic of Croatia should not worry. Is that really what it is? If we take the information that Croatian agriculture has achieved about a billion and 800 million euros somewhere, that the deficit between imports and exports is around EUR 500 million and that the most important items about increased imports into the Republic of Croatia are exactly the quantities of imported meat, whether beef, pig or other meat. And to inform the Croatian public about where imports, who imports and how much imports are from, I asked HGK, the import-export department, however, they instructed me to ask the Customs Administration or the Ministry of Finance, which I did. And here's an interesting answer I get, that I can't get that data because it would hurt the interest of data protection since the tax authority is obliged as a tax secret to keep all the data that the taxpayer makes in the tax procedure. So I didn't ask how much income he made, how much tax he paid, or even who the company owns, for the protection of the confidentiality of personal data, but only who the importers are, from which the countries are imported and what amounts of meat they are. And the key question is what kind of meat Croatians or citizens of the Republic of Croatia eat, those who have the means to buy meat, because many of our fellow citizens do not have that option, but are digging through containers because of the status that they have, or because of the income they do not have. And now, instead of allowing our citizens to have quality meat, that it is meat from known sources, that health is right, which the competent authorities say is that meat imported into the Republic of Croatia is healthy. Yes, but based on statements made by journalists who entered the system of the slaughterhouse two in Poland and who said that other slaughterhouses in Poland work similarly, where the slaughter of sick cattle, treated with antibiotics and other things, substances and, after that, only the Croatian citizens are sure there is no such statement on Croatian shelves. But it is necessary, then, to ask whether the State Inspectorate that we started to work, how many veterinary inspectors, market inspectors, customs inspectors are involved in these affairs and whether it has really been found that such meat is missing in Croatia, of course it is not necessary to alert citizens and spread a bad story. But what I would like to say is that unfortunately we are dependent on imports, that every breakfast and lunch in Croatia is from imports. That only 40% of our own needs for pigmeat are satisfied from our own production, that we constantly record the drop in the number of throats in cattle, in 2005 we had about 500,000 throats, 2017. 450,000. Over 100,000 jobs have been lost in pig farming, beef and meat processing. Why do we do this to Croatia and to Croats, why do we no longer invest in the protection of domestic production and that our citizens know what they eat and where it comes from? Because it is obviously not someone's interest in protecting citizens and domestic food production, but the goal is to protect the import lobby and possible then corruption, crime or someone's private pocket of income. One analyst says more than 30% of Croatia's market is the grey market to be dealt in black. Obviously, the minister does not care that the Croatian has on the table, what he eats, but what shoes he wears or who sits on his lap, and I would invite him to take more care of Croatian agriculture and what Croatian citizens eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123885	The next presentation of the position in front of the HSS Representatives' Club is counterpart Davor Vlaovic, please welcome colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123886	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, here, the position of the HSS Club on the topic of water which is life, meaning life and which, in our opinion, should be basic human rights, here is the example of Slovenia, which even established in the Constitution that this is a basic human right, but this is not only the position of HSS, but also the opinion of all inhabitants, especially those who still have no possibility of joining drinking water in the 21st century. The Republic of Croatia is one of the richest in Europe by the quantities of available drinking water, by the number of inhabitants, about 27000 m3, and what is our relationship to this wealth, to this national resource? First of all, we deal with wasteful, machete and polluting, is waternets mostly, part of local money, part of European money built, however, the number of connections that are, the family house connected to them is small and small consumption, and the reason is that they are expensive for our residents because the price of drinking water cubicity is expensive. Why is that? Well, according to the data we got, there's about 165 public water supplies in the Republic of Croatia and their number's in the last 10 years. increased, the number of employees in these public water suppliers increased, an average of between 6 and 12 per 1,000 inhabitants, while in Austria only 2 employed per 1,000 residents in public water suppliers. The loss shown by the companies here has been increased, and the reason is that they have increased losses in the network, over 50% of the individual water suppliers have a loss in the network, and the result is a large price that citizens cannot pay, and especially since the economy pays 20 to 30% higher price per cubicity than the population, it is simply a major imposition on the economy and it is certain that a public debate on the reduction of the number of public water suppliers, but also the reduction of losses in the network, and what we are asking from HSS to establish a solidarity fund in order to reduce the price of water supply to the islands, which is announced, but certainly also for settlements, villages in rural areas that are away from the network and that there must be found models to finance the same. It is also important to invest more in the irrigation system because we do not have the development of agriculture without irrigation, and what is a special topic, which is water protection, as we behave irresponsiblely, as if we are not enough warnings in Slavonski Brod a year or 10 days ago in Zagorje where a large number of water pumps have been closed due to hydrocarbon pollution, and according to the information we receive, that more than 20,000 tonnes of waste disposal has been brought up to a mile and a half from the water supply site where the use of the permit has been obtained at 115 000 tonnes, and according to information that we have received that more than 20,000 tonnes above. And I'm asking again what the inspections were doing, whether they were and whether they found out whether there was anything in line with the law because unfortunately here it had to happen that there were re-elections for the municipal council because the citizens said a lot, no, that arrogant behavior of the current management of the Davor municipality, because through the demonstration of power, they didn't give information to the public what happens there when a truck of municipal waste is brought in, whether it's examined, from where it comes from, at which prices, and what danger to drinking water is nearby, I said about a mile away. And now because of the conflicts within HDZ, there has been a budget failure and because of this, it wants to be transferred now to blame some other political options and people, and it is essentially a conflict within the HDZ, and suffers from the entire Davor municipality, but not only the Davor municipality, but suffers residents from Nova Kapela to Okučana because 60,000 inhabitants need to be fed by drinking water from this area. I therefore call on the people to go to the elections because they do not only decide on fate in their municipalities and about themselves, but also on 60,000 inhabitants in the area. And I call once again for inspections to go out on the ground to determine whether there were irregularities and how this dump is wanted because I think we need to keep drinking water safe for generations to come and not act so irresponsiblely. There's a lot of personal interests involved here, and we're asking it to be a public interest, the interest of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123887	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123888	The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123889	Thank you very much, Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the HSS Club, a few words on the subject of agony. Because agony continues. Today, both the government and the prime minister have not made a decision on what to do with Uljanik and 3. May, what about jobs, what with the future of those 3, about 3,000 families of workers in Uljannik and 3. Maya. It's the worst thing not to make decisions. And the worst thing, when it comes to this, is that politics gets back into the economy and the judiciary, because here, the judge has delayed her bankruptcy for April. The government did not make a decision, the prime minister finally got the strength to say that the restructuring of the Uljanika shipyard and 3rd. May in this form doesn't go looking for a solution. The solution is required here, for seven months the workers have been unemployed. No one asks them how they live and how they'll live tomorrow. No one asks co-operatives who also have a huge number of employees, when they will collect their claim, and what is worst, ship-owners have lost confidence in the government and the resolution ministry and will not even, they say, even more to secure financial flows, build ships in Croatia, in this Uljanik, and some have said. It says what a shame it is to make no decisions, to drag these procedures to the limit. Billions have been spent, say more than 30 billion, and whoever's guilty has been made a performance the other day of the 12 arrested. Is it just them? And we all know in Croatia that they are not the only ones to blame and the question of whether charges will be raised and confirmed against them and whether anyone will ever be convicted and whether any of these billions will be returned to the budget, and everyone in Croatia is asking questions, and what about all the governments that owned the Uljaniks and shipyards 80% today are about 25%, which is with the supervisory committees involved, what about the audits, whether they were there and what are the financial reports and what are the audit findings. Do we as a state even have control over such large companies to monitor the work of the same? It has also been shown for example by Agrokor, and now, for example, the shipyard that we have no real control and that it only responds when international institutions, ship-orders, media or trade unions exert pressure. It's only then that he reacts in the case of Agrokor, here's the case of the shipyard. The government knew 17, 18 months for the problem and is constantly delaying the decision and surely not only these 12 people are wrong and cannot be blamed for them or for local and regional self-government, and we say we are doing the best we can. Well, since you're so responsible when you have all the instruments and finally make that decision, is it bankruptcy, bankruptcy or ultimately liquidation? So I'd still ask the question, and where Minister Horvat went, he talked to the administration, with the unions, and he was real speaking, we need to based on quality analyses and figures made. Suddenly he no longer makes statements and doesn't go public, some others go, decisions are made at political level and we haven't had the right information or we have. And he's right, Mr. Hrelja's colleague, when he says why we didn't have thematic meetings of the Committee on Economy, we here in the assembly to have quality grounds for discussion, and about Agrokor we had several thematic sessions, although there were no results over 500 million of the Borg group pulled out, but even though we had basic information we even received in writing. We don't know anything here. We can only guess, as well as the workers. And that is the policy that continues this and the former government because over hundreds of companies in Croatia have disappeared through privatisation and poor policymaking and more than 300,000 jobs have disappeared. Who asked us from Slavonia when more than 10,000 jobs disappeared in Đura Djakovic or when Agrocombinat Jasinje could not be recovered And only 64 million needed [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We must change this policy, we must protect jobs and industry in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123890	The next club of MPs is the national, pardoned, pardon HSS and Democrats in the name of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123891	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Democratic Club want to introduce us into the World Health Day theme, which is April 7th and the key question is what we know and what we do in Croatia. A study conducted in 195 countries worldwide found that one in five deaths was associated with unhealthy nutrition. Bad unhealthy food, bad eating habits cause more deaths than all the other factors combined. And then the key question is what are we eating in Croatia, what are we eating, what are we buying, what are we eating? Imports of food products in Croatia 2018 were 2.7 billion. Exports of only 1.2 billion. A deficit of 1.5 billion. All of this should warn us that we must make an emergency turn. First of all, raise awareness of the need for a healthy diet, raise food production in the Republic of Croatia even though agriculture is like a strategic branch of the economy, but it is not seen from this data. And more importantly, to raise the standard of citizens to be able to afford this healthier food, because the data from these surveys has been defeated that 28% of their incomes are used by our citizens to buy food, food products. By this we are among the worst and at the bottom, only Bulgaria is worse than us in Europe. The finance minister tried to do something by changing VAT rates on food products. He reduced VATs from 25 to 13% to part of the product, and now we can say here, after 3 months, the ministers failed because prices in the food chain of the food products fell inconspicuously from 0.9% to 3.4% in some cases. There is no significant reduction in food prices. Minister, you failed. What's left is what we said from the HSS that money will stay in the pockets of merchants, not that it will help our fellow citizens. One more piece of information. That the number of crossings of our citizens to shopping in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other neighbouring countries is on the rise because of lower VAT, due to lower prices, because of the poorer standard of our citizens and remains the only way out for our citizens, especially us in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem and other underdeveloped areas, that they must go for food to neighbouring countries and questionable qualities. And what is still the same in front of us, which is climate change, droughts here these days appeal to farmers from Baranja where the situation is most difficult, and from eastern Croatia where some even had to overturn these winter crops because of drought. And what do we do to stop or at least partially help our farmers? Irrigation in trace amounts of 5 to 6% of the surfaces are only irrigated. Slovenia, Hungary and some other countries have already made action plans, are working on a strategy to prevent drought damage, we do very little or nothing. But here is the strategy for the development of agriculture in Croatia. Imagine it being done by experts from the World Bank and allegedly two Greeks. I hope there will be no strategy and result as a Greek economy and the failure of Greek food production. Also, what is a prerequisite for the growth of agricultural production, which is agricultural land. The law is passed, no contests yet. Why? So it stalled the adoption of the Programme for the Making of State Agricultural Land by the Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Water, Croatian Forests, where mainly the programs that the municipalities and cities have made have been re-branded because of the unspecified rules and the conditions in which this should be done. And there's still no contest. So I ask the minister, until when? It has already been two years, and not a single invitation to tender for state agricultural land has been, and there is a new Regulation on the entry of agricultural areas into the Arkod system and the direct payment system, so part of our farmers will fall out of the state's support system and there will be no increase in production and new food, especially when it comes to the transfer of concessions to new companies, to Forte Nova where our farmers pay the rent of 1,000,000 800 kuna and Agrokor's company 300 kuna. Is that just? And I call on the commissioners not to sign those contracts, and most of the municipal councils in those units have made such decisions. I don't think it's just a drought, it's a drought in the heads and ideas of raising the quality of life in the Republic of Croatia and agriculture. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Excuse me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123892	Mr. Zeljko Lenart in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, let's go... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u123893	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, what I want to talk about today is a new Regulation on the registration of the use of agricultural land. Recently, i.e. Not recently, but almost a year and a half ago, we passed the State Agricultural Land Act. For almost a year and a half, it hasn't started working yet, and it sure as hell won't work until the end of the year. We know that agricultural land is a fundamental basis for agricultural production and that it is necessary to resolve especially for the CAP that they can and know what they have and on what basis they build their economies. The second problem has arisen, and it is very hidden in the new Regulation on the registration of the agricultural land administration, in Art. 8th in 2nd century, where it is said that property can be proved by extracts from land books and extracts from the catastrophe. It's very simple to write here and it looks simple, but it's not easy. Four, five years ago, the Agriculture Agency allowed the entry of agricultural land private into the ARCOD system, which means in the support system on the basis of documents that only prove the area. Anyone could have entered such land without a lease agreement and had the right to support it. Knowing that the ARCOD system does not allow two owners to use the same land or the ARCOD system to indicate whether or not the land is being used, it is not possible to abuse it unless someone is controlling it. But with this, a new rule, which says that by 30.9., contracts must be made for all parcels, for all the land surfaces that are being processed. In view of the state of our land books in the grantovna which is unsettled, where there is still a owner of Maria Teresa, a large part of the people who formed their holdings based on livestock farming, and we know that cattle farming dropped by 8.2% only last year, a large number of people working on war-hit areas of Banovina, Lika, Posavina, Slavonia are people who have come out of land, using it and would be very happy to make a contract to have with whom, but they do not have those opportunities, and this paying agency, or the Ministry of Agriculture, wants to take away a large part of that land, it is reportedly more than 20,000 hectares of land. We know Agrokor had nearly 33,000 now inherited by the new owners of Agrokor i.e. New Fortenova companies. I ask the ministry that produces a series of laws that are hollow and empty, which don't change anything, I ask the minister who's advertised in all possible media, pictures, producing affairs, which is why in his mega-mind ministry, which has three state secretaries, 14 assistants doing this kind of problem to family farms. So isn't it better to have agricultural land in rural areas where the population's benefit went, brought to culture, or it's better to leave again because the state hasn't taken care of land books? Who's in the interest of who? Minister, please take a look at this, pull this up, because this will further destroy livestock farming in Croatia, will further drive our young people out of Croatia. After the destruction of dairy and dairy farms, many went to another livestock production, stood on their feet, and now they call for days on the phone and talk about the injustice they want to do. So who do we keep the land for? In a few years when strangers will be able to buy, do we keep it for them? Do we have to sell everything to someone without leaving anything for the Croatian man, workers and peasants? Mr. Secretary, stay out of the affair, stay out of the photo and the PR get busy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124495	We're going back to work. Today we have 8 points, the first is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 408. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia This Regulation shall enter into force on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is the esteemed Darko Horvat, Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124496	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, parliamentary representatives. Allow me to present the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. First of all, I would like to point out that this final proposal for a law will fully comply with the EU Directive on unfair business practice, but at the same time, it will improve certain provisions of the applicable Consumer Protection Act, which has been highlighted by practice during its application. Indeed, the applicable Consumer Protection Act, for traders, is prescribed, a rule of mandatory emphasis on regular prices and reduced prices during specific sales, such as seasonal reductions, action sales and the like. However, the European Commission has drawn attention, that it is necessary to make it more clear that mandatory to highlight the regular price, and the reduced prices refer only to sales within the business premises, and that the same does not apply to advertising. These amendments are necessary, in order to achieve full compliance with the provisions of the Directive on unfair business practice, and in order to avoid breach of EU law, and hence the possible initiation of a court case against the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these amendments and additions are proposed to make it more clear that the obligation to highlight the regular and reduced price applies exclusively to sales within the business premises, and that that provision on the emphasis on the regular price and the reduced price does not apply to advertising. What does that really mean? This means that the trader can, but also does not have to highlight the regular and reduced price of advertising, sales outside of business space, distance sales, and if the specific form of sale lasts less than 3 days. In view of the increased transparency in decision-making, which concerns consumer rights, the applicable Consumer Protection Act, the obligation to set up advisory bodies, public authorities and units of local and regional self-government is laid down. These advisory bodies shall decide on the rights and obligations of consumers in particular with regard to the determination of the terms and conditions of sale and the prices of certain public... Members of these advisory bodies are also representatives of consumer protection organisations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the implementation of these provisions has been in the crackdown on certain difficulties in relation to the extent of its application, i.e. the determination by the public authorities of the obligation to set up advisory bodies. Since such a solution included an extremely large number of public authorities, which do not make decisions in their work in their work area regarding the rights of consumers of public services, it is necessary to define more precisely the bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services. Following this, since the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has prescribed that consumer protection operations in the self-government area of the local self-government unit have been proposed only for local self-government units, therefore, municipalities and cities. Also due to insufficient official and other capacities of certain cities and municipalities, it is proposed to establish a joint advisory body for several cities and municipalities, if the same trader provides public service, in the area of several units of local self-government. Furthermore, the applicable law also requires the obligation to be representatives of consumer protection associations in the aforementioned advisory bodies, as well as in commercial advertising committees, public service providers. In order for consumers, public service users, to have a better access to information, which protects their interests and rights in those bodies, it is proposed that consumer organisations publish on their websites, the signature of local self-government units and the list of traders, public service providers, in the work of whose advisory bodies, i.e. commissions, their representatives participate. To that end, Croatia's Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are also proposed to publish on their web pages, the signature of advertising committees, which are established in the chambers in question, for certain activities carried out by traders, who have up to 5 employees, whose work is attended by representatives of consumer protection associations. The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, which we are discussing today, brings one newspaper that I consider to be of great importance to consumer rights. In fact, the paper refers to the conclusion of a distance service contract by telephone. In view of the frequent complaints made by the consumer regarding contracts concluded under a specific law governing electronic communications, the need for the contracts in question to be made more clear as to the exact moment that the contract is considered to be concluded. We also prescribe that such contracts concluded by telephone are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act. Taking into account the availability and increasing frequency of the use of modern technologies, it is proposed that the contract is considered to be concluded only after the consumer has received the offer to the trader to confirm its agreement on the conclusion of the contract. Confirmation of consent other than that of the classical type, signed offers on paper, includes other means of delivery of consent by consumers that allow faster communication between consumers and traders such as e-mail or e-mail. It is also proposed that the burden of proof of acceptance of consent on the conclusion of a contract on the trader is on the trader, which in the case of a potential dispute between the consumer and the trader specifically means that it is the trader who will have to prove that the contract has been concluded rather than the consumer itself. Taking into account the complexity and multidisciplinary of the area of consumer protection as well as the frequent changes in legislation, we have assessed the need to ensure the quality of the provision of advice and information to consumers. That is why we have proposed the obligation to pass an expert examination for persons carrying out information and consumer advice projects based on a public tender for which funds have been secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to make it clear this way that the exam will be able, that the exams will be able to be carried out without paying the fees for accessing the exam itself. During the whole process of preparing this law, we have received different proposals from individual associations for consumer protection. One part of the proposal that we thought would contribute to improving the text and the law itself and to implementing it and we accepted it. One part of the proposal concerned provisions of the applicable Consumer Protection Act already in line with the EU acquis. From that point of view, the applicant could not adopt them because the amendments to these provisions would result in infringements of EU law, and thus initiating certain procedures against the Republic of Croatia. I want to take this opportunity and stress the following, during 2016 and '17. a year by the European Commission and in communication with the Member States, an analysis was carried out of EU legislation involving representatives of consumer protection associations. This process will ultimately result in the adoption of a legislative package titled "New Consumer Advantages" that New Deal or New Deal want to achieve improvements in terms of more effective enforcement sanctions involving a large number of consumers from several EU Member States. In addition, it wants to ensure greater transparency for consumers on the internet markets to remove burdens on business entities and to regulate the issue of double product quality, i.e. in this sense, of lower quality products that come or are already on the Croatian market. Procedures will also be subject to which authorised bodies for the protection of consumers of Member States will be able to require, in addition to the initiation of the collective consumer protection procedure, measures to traders who have caused consumer rights by their illegal activities. Compared to the existing legal regulation, it will simplify and speed up the compensation procedure in cases of infringement of the rights of a large number of consumers, thus raising the level of protection of the rights of all EU consumers, as well as consumers in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The public dialogue on this new consumer package is being conducted by the European Commission with all Member States and was held in Zagreb at the home of Europe on 9 November last year, with representatives of all stakeholders from this multidisciplinary sector, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, the academic community and various stakeholders of consumer protection associations. With the same aim of raising the level of consumer protection on 12 December 2018, an inter-resorial dialogue was held to improve consumer rights policies, which included a number of stakeholders in the area of consumer protection. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts has also launched a project to develop a central consumer portal that will include information from all relevant actors in their area of competence and legally direct citizens. The purpose of this portal is simply to save citizens time in a way to ensure the availability of the most important information in one place, for example, such as information that the body is responsible for individual or individual problems. Finally, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft attaches importance to consumer protection and will continue to direct activities for the further development of this system in the future. We will pay particular attention to improving the national regulatory framework and actively participate in the process of adopting European legislation and harmonising national legislation with the already existing European legislation. In addition, we will focus additional efforts on raising awareness of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia about their consumer rights and all to achieve high standards of consumer rights protection and to ensure that consumers feel safe and protected. Following all of this, I propose the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act, and today I call all of you here to a constructive debate, so if there are any other proposals that have been made between the first and second readings, in the form of amendments, we are prepared to discuss them and discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124497	I thank the minister. We have 11 replicas, first fellow Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124498	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Minister Horvat, the Franak case has not yet been completed, will likely end in a few months by reviewing the banks because the Supreme Court is conducting a procedure based on the audit of banks and the Supreme Court will complete the procedure and we will know the final legal order that will be final, however, there will be no systematic solution for consumers and on the basis of this case, 125 000 are damaged by the currency clause and unfair interest. Throughout the EU, the currency clause CHF is unfair, Croatia is not the only example, but we have collective protection and we do not have systematic compensation. After the review at the Supreme Court is completed, I will seek to propose a legal solution that would systematically enable the compensation of all 125 000 debtors on the basis of the coercion towards banks. The basis of the verdict is, will you support one such solution as I'm going to suggest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124499	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124500	Dear Parliamentarian, and in the discussion that we had in the first reading of this law, I have noted and we are awake and we are an active part of the construction of the directive, which I hope during this year, in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, will implement so-called. the collective lawsuit process. We are aware of the fact that such a process today is expensive for the players who are joining together and such a lawsuit wants to be filed but I must admit that we have also analysed these similar processes of the countries of our environment. And I must admit that if you remember your discussion during the first reading where we apostrophed a positive practice of such a type in the Republic of Croatia, I must admit that we came up with an analysis of a little different knowledge than you do. So, the Ministry of Economy and i.e. Ministry of Economy and Digital Economy [[The Incursion President: Time, Minister.]] It gave... [[Intruder President: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124501	Minister, we can't, you can take a few seconds, but this is too much. Be in second. Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124502	Dear Minister, I hope, now this, these 15 inspection services will unite, that it will strengthen control. We see now on the food stamps of kosher,... where these stamps for Croatian buyers and these, I don't see any progress here, you're talking about European legislation, that's what we're doing selectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have 19 000 companies in Croatia without any employees, I am afraid of Croatian heads here because everything we import here in the markets is visible, 90% of the fruits and vegetables are imported and we spend hundreds of billions of kuna on agriculture, Croats. We see the white onion from China as domestic sales, churches, meat coming from Romania 3 years old, I hope we have the concrete results of these quarterly surveillance to know what we're eating here. I remember the tanker... This one's waiting to pass alcohol to wine, pure alcohol. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You should watch out for Croats, not this import. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124503	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124504	I must admit that we have respected parliamentary representative, slightly stepped out of the context of this law and little has been transferred and transformed into an area governed by another law, but I agree in the fact that every consumer in the Republic of Croatia and every citizen in the Republic of Croatia deserves the establishment of such a system which will allow us to have no dual quality products or dual quality products in the Republic of Croatia but neither products that are not high quality or that are not suitable for our market. I agree with both you and the findings, and we will try a new structure and coordination of the new inspectorate as closely as possible to bring the product closer to the consumer in terms of product quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124505	Third replica, Comrade Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124506	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, therefore, this amendment to the law is a step one in relation to the previous laws and I should be welcomed, but I am concerned about one thing. I remember the situation where my colleague Lalovec was found when he was a minister, and today I warmly greet him, taking off his hat for showing strength. I'm asking you to do the same. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Don't give in to them, don't be naive, don't be naive, don't be naive, don't be naive, don't be naive. In the Assembly, the operators will, following what is stated in Article 66, act as they will, because you yourself have now said in the introduction that there are different technologies, different methods, they will do everything to prove that the user has confirmed his contract. I will in that sense, you have called on us to propose amendments, I will propose an amendment on behalf of the club to remain signed and possibly another way but let Hacom then prescribe it with its own rule. I hope you'll appreciate that, and that amendment to the government will present it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124507	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124508	Well, here's my regards to your sentence. This law is a step forward. Whether he's definitive and we're not going to change him in a few years, I can't say that at this point, but I think that we step forward and make it more clear that we have two key things to do after the contract is concluded. First, it offers to make clear to the consumer what is the subject of the contract, and then to leave a trace of the verifier that the consumer has agreed to the terms of the contract. We are aware of the fact that in one digital society, the digital world, we are introducing other processes to which this certificate can be given, therefore, the trail will remain with both SMS and mail, but we should not go around the counters, but we should give the opportunity to make a written clue, i.e. a mark in electronic form remains an archive, and we have introduced this and we will ask for changes to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124509	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124510	Thank you very much. Ministers, EU directives have been very rarely in the interest of man and in the interest of solving problems. Well, here, I can point out, you said contracts on electronic communications services. Nowhere worse than the Republic of Croatia on most of it. There are no worse services anywhere, and no greater profits are teleopers than in the Republic of Croatia. For example, HT in Croatia has 42% profit and margin, while in Germany there is half the EU as a whole. What does that mean? That these directives sent by the EU are clean pamphlets to satisfy the form, not to solve the problem of citizens, as they said before colleagues and for banks and for garbage, the food they well packed, sell us double the expensive junk food that is in the EU, and that is the solution. And these instant legal changes which the European officials command you, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They don't solve anything for our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124511	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124512	Dear Parliamentarian, the very fact that we are going slowly towards this and we are preventing the provision of services or a product of different or different quality in the Republic of Croatia than in other EU members from contributing correspondence to Brussels and harmonising the views of the legislative regulatory framework across the EU. But what you know very well, therefore, some things are not subject to the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so our teleoperators have their own regulator, it is the HACOM agency, which is under the authority of this home, so the Croatian Parliament and the correspondence of the Parliament, HACOM to operators must provide a better and better service.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124513	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124514	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I have one specific question, so today in a daily newspaper we read a big headline that waste disposal in the city of Zagreb will collect 3% and that the Council for the Protection of Consumers of the City of Zagreb was against that decision. I have a specific question. Whether this law that you are proposing will protect our citizens from the harmful decisions of mayors such as the Mayor Bandic because the 3 per cent waste disposal is, so the Consumer Protection Council has given its opinion, it has an advisory role and nothing will change, it will have nothing to do with that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124515	You want an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124516	I can, I can answer that. So, but the answer is difficult for me to answer about processes that are not in the jurisdiction of this case of the law, which are not in the authority of a house called the Ministry of Economy and which are not even in the government of the Republic of Croatia at the moment. So, in the business segment or decision-making at the level of the city of Zagreb and the mayor and the city council and all its professional services, I suppose, they have some analysis that makes them propose certain proposals and, as part of parliamentary democracy, when the majority agree with such decisions, they usually pass. To meddle with the aspect of the Ministry of Economy in the methodology of such decisions or making such decisions, I think it would be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124517	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124518	.../incomprehensible/... esteemed ministers. The important two things I read from this bill are first in advertising discount, can no longer happen to lower some smallest article 70% and then put 70 percent on the window, and everything else is not. That's what the citizens need to know. The second part, when agreeing to contracts on a distance road, so by electronic or telephone means, will have to be given to our citizens exactly what is offered and what exactly they agree to. However, my question is and we had this on the board discussion, that sometimes the citizens really want their service now or tomorrow. Of course this time of sending an offer will slow everything down, is it possible that they get one so-called. Rolling, in a rolling contract or service, that at the time they request their or new service, they get that service, but it is valid until cancellation or after they agree to the contract when the conditions are seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124519	Here's your answer. Minister, do you want an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124520	I have to admit that in the process between the first and second reading we had a few, I would dare say, good suggestions. However, the proposals at this time must be coordinated and incorporated into some rule as an expression of a good desire. I will check this request of yours, so we still have time to intervene with the amendments, but looking at this correspondence we have led with teleoperators and imposing such an obligation to leave a visible trail on what the consumer must offer clearly, I think there has been one step, whether at this point to insist in these few days and on this second process, but I admit, the idea is good and we will try to get all the relevant answers to this question of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124521	Let's move on. My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124522	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, for protecting consumers, should be, that fraud is sometimes very sophisticated, are, that they are possible in three ways, by price, by quantity, by quality, they are. Here you have foreseen the Law to form a Council on Local Self-Government Units where it is possible and more of these municipalities and cities to form a Council, which I agree with. But can you explain that part about the Citizens' Association? So citizens' associations can publish fraud on their websites, websites, facebook pages. But I'm afraid, if you have in one place two merchants, one just tells his neighbor, and you organize the Association and a little bit of this other mud. So, I don't think there's any need to publish until something is proven, and it has to be within a month, two, three. For false news and all. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124523	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124524	I agree with you and you've noticed, I'm sure by legal framework we've reduced the obligation to municipalities and cities. So, on the direct base from which consumers come. Through the Citizens' Association as it is today over 20 who are engaged in consumer protection, at the end of last year, or early this year, we have put into office a single competition where we will engage the Associations of Citizens and interest in one fair and correct participation and a good response primarily through one project for which we have reserved a million and 400 thousand kuna in the budget. Each Association of Citizens who deals or has an intensities to participate in the awareness of Croatian citizens about their rights will be able to compete from 20 to 70.000,00 kn and participate in the project. Every organization will be able to win two such projects, and the Associations will be able to [[Intruder: Thank you]] And unite each other. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124525	My colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124526	Thank you very much, esteemed President, dear Minister with fellow Members, I warmly welcome you. Since we are a small country on the global market, of course we have to protect our original products and we are doing so, but on the other hand we also need to be very, very controlled about what is being imported and how, and therefore we need to be well integrated into the European control system, which is what we are doing. However, but then the next step should be to insist that no second-class goods and second-class products should be imported from any European producer, which we know is still the case, and therefore I appeal that this law, which is the first step and which will be integrated into this package of laws that you have announced for consumer protection, should take this problem into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124527	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124528	Thank you very much. I can only remember your participation in the debate when we had the first reading, so you didn't know, about two weeks later, that Law on the Prevention of Geoblocking came, so it's one package of several legislative proposals, and since correspondence on the subject of double or different product quality at this point is agreed in the context of a directive for which we, in the segment of our presidency, put the high priority of adoption. If it is not finished during this year, I am sure that in those 6 months of Croatia's presidency, insisting on the adoption of this act, it will be completed in Parliament, the European Parliament, as a directive, and will then be transposed into Croatian legislation next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124529	Thank you. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124530	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the debate on this Act is very important and unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia we have not yet reached those standards, but what bothers me more, in your performance and your promises, I have a credibility problem, and that Croatian citizens will believe what you are saying after you have said in the past few months that you have strategic investors for our Shipyards, it turns out that none of this has happened. After your government, your colleagues and you said that you would not allow the closure of the Sisak Refinery, we see it closing, jobs are lost and tens of thousands of jobs in the Republic of Croatia mean nothing to you, at the end of whom we will protect, when we will not have consumers at all, people will not receive salaries, either in Sisak, or in Rijeka, or in Pula, because of this relationship between the Government and you specifically as Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124531	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124532	Your Honor, MP, even though you've missed all the football, thank you for asking. I would offer a piece of advice instead of an answer. Instead of playing on your cell phone and your variety on the Internet, I would suggest you open your website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange and you will see a very interesting information from today morning. And that is that we have extended the openness of the Daytarum due to the interest that has just been expressed, due to the arrival of another very interesting partner who is filming the situation in the Croatian Shipyards, it is the third partner, we will have certainly during the next week another statement of interest, so all this lie that you have told the Croatian public in the last few days is only the conclusion with one sentence, be at least a little bit credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124533	Comrade Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124534	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I would like to know whether this Law is synchronised with the Law on the unfair commercial practice in the food supply chain, and whether the provisions of this Law on the unfair commercial practice relating to the highlight of the lowest price which must not be lower than the manufacturer, which has often happened so far, is happening in the future and I wonder whether you have information about whether the Agency for the Protection of Competition has been operational and whether it has started to do its job. Furthermore, as it is, I am interested in how this law protects consumers from fraud that action prices stand out on products that have expired, then lower the price, such food is not for action, but for... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124535	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124536	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian, for asking. So, in the very part of my opening statement, in the first few sentences, I have made it clear that all the changes and additions that are being made are actually in addition to this, to synchronise the legislative framework, which is why the Law on Protection, i.e., these amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act, completely synchronises, with the law on unfair commercial practice, and I agree completely with you, and therefore we need a different philosophy of the State Inspectorate, that those products, which run out of time, do not end in a variety of action sales, but in this very place, which you have actually apostrophyd.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124537	And the last replica, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124538	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this bill has identified some anomalies that occur and affect Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, in this law, there are some things that make a lot of Croatian citizens on the list blocked, and that's good. However, what is crucial is to control the implementation of this law, because if it does not exist, then this law is not worth anything. The Croatian national television is practically out of sports. You were offered packages by certain teleopers, and let's just say the champion league was definitely something that was attractive. The teleoper lost that, however, he did not offer all contract owners a new contract with a lower price and asked if you wanted to move on, but simply kept on charging. Now, the elemental thing is, if you've offered someone something in the pact, if it's gone, then that contract is no longer worth it. Just one small example, and we could list them as many as we want during the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124539	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124540	So thank you for paying attention, for something we've been thinking about, over the past three months. very intensively dealt with, however, the contractual obligation and the introduction of this new modality, the conclusion of the contract, is in favour of the fact that, in the form of a certified victory, the consumer, gets a clear picture and information that he actually negotiates, and that, after that, by means of a trail of it or contracts or not contracts. The expiry of the contract and the contractual obligations that are being made, the thing is to call it the business relationship between the consumer and the one who offers this service and I will take advantage of the opportunity and the public also to sensitize, if we have already given this opportunity, that very carefully and very clearly, before they negotiate, read what they exactly negotiate and what a commitment to the basis of the contract... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124541	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There's no one to answer. I'm opening a debate, my colleague Maras is asking for a hearing, and you're asking for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124542	Thank you very much, Mr. President, after this opening part, we need additional consultations, the minister is quite inconclusive in these claims, but we hope that they are true, if there are 3 then 100% will be resolved by investors in Pula or Rijeka and offers to tell him here that he will resign unless it happens. That would be credible, tell the minister, then perhaps the Croatian citizens will believe you or you will talk to Minister Maric about the Sisak refinery, and I would also ask you to explain how it is painted on the Internet, because I am not able to do it with chemical charms on the Internet, perhaps you know how technology works. But our break here has been called for a scandalous information, which is that in the City of Zagreb we do not protect consumers and that the city administration, is going to collect waste twice as much to which colleagues and colleagues? So the Club of Representatives Milan Bandic in the Croatian Parliament, which has none now in the Parliament, nor are all these defects that are inside, the Club of Representatives who deal with political trade in the Croatian Parliament, now wants to charge from Zagreb and Zagreb three times as much money to take out garbage and to whom? The smallest apartments, meaning the most will be collected according to this proposal that the City of Zagreb gives, apartments that have 30 squares and families, families, which have 4 family members and more. So the totally anti-demographic measure, which goes towards the poorest and that's called the Solidarity Club, there's no solidarity between colleagues and colleagues, there's only political trade and what we're not going to allow to do with Zagreb and Zagreb. We'll do everything we can to stop this disgraceful proposal by Mayor Bandic, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124543	Thank you. This is the Croatian Parliament, but I cannot prevent representatives from Zagreb from talking about Zagreb's topics as well. Okay, it's 10.14, so we'll be back at 10:30. It's 10.14 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.34 HOURS]] We continue with the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a colleague of Sladolev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124545	Thank you, Mr President, respected ministers, respected MPs, the Consumer Protection Act is a regulatory framework that protects consumer rights and transposes a complete European regulation on this issue. The issues that the proposer wishes to settle as a goal to achieve these amendments and the additions to the law highlight the more precise regulation of certain institutes that have so far been inaccurately arranged, mainly around advisory bodies in front of public authorities which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers. It is proposed to limit the obligation on the bodies of local self-government and under two arrangements of consumer consultation activities. The measures proposed by the law are, in fact, four measures, the first deregulation and specification of the regulation of the obligation for all public authorities to have advisory bodies with regard to bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers in view of those decisions by local self-government units is proposed that only those who decide have an obligation to set up such bodies in which ex-legislators have their place. The second measure is regulated to stress the need for the impartiality of consumer protection organisations and is regulated in such a way that the administrative bodies of the association or their members in their consumer protection activities should not act in order to achieve their own interest. The third measure introduces the obligation to pass an expert examination for all persons performing consumer advice services on the basis of a public tender which is provided for in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, so we believe that another activity is going too crazy but apart from the provision proposed by the applicant itself is completely unclear because it provides that the obligation to pass an expert examination has an association or legal or natural person who performs consulting services. Since associations and other legal entities are in legal terms but not in physical terms, it remains unclear who, how and when has an obligation to pass an expert examination because it is naturally clear that the association as a legal entity cannot be. In addition, in the final text of the reading, the above-mentioned obligation to pass an expert examination has been extended to information and training activities of consumers, and it would be useful to ask who will conduct those professional trainings in the competent ministry and organise the submission of exams and the amount of the fees for the examination and whether this will result in the need for new employment in the ministry. The fourth infringement provision was only adapted to changes in the material provisions of the law, but no reduction in the level of criminal penalties was considered, nor was the reduction of the catalogue of criminal acts considered also bad practice unfavourable for the market. In the end, I will say, therefore, that these amendments to the law will not significantly improve consumer protection. In my first reading, I mentioned the example that my colleague Schuker mentioned, which is an example of a TV operator breaking consumer law and consumer rights in a rough way, it was about people making contracts with a certain TV operator and taking extended sports packages, so they made a contract for a year or two years and a certain TV operator lost the right for example to the Champions League games and this one, and actually the consumer pays the same price for that service. It's like taking an air-conditioned car and I don't know you, this car house at one point takes that air-conditioning, and you're still paying the price of a loan or a lease at that full price of extra equipment. It should also be said that the ministry has answered my question, and it would be commendable for example. For more than 40 days, the Ministry of Education has not answered the questions, the Ministry of Economy has answered my question, but in my opinion, I couldn't believe when the ministry said first that it was necessary to determine whether the consumer had consumed the programme. So, I don't think anybody cares if I take some sports package to the extent that I'm going to watch those games, I can watch one club a year, but it's my decision, other than how it's going to be determined whether someone consumed that sports package and this, and I don't think that it's a good answer, I think that it should stand either in law or in law this or somehow what fellow Shucker mentioned, and that's that the moment when a certain TV operator broke so he didn't, so he didn't provide the service that you paid that the consumer has the automatic right to break that contract in order to protect him. This is just one banal example, so this law will not solve it, I think that if we all went here right now to Ban Jelačić Square to ask one banal simple question of our citizens, do you think that in Croatia as a consumer you are equally protected as a consumer in Germany or another European country, that 99% of people would tell you that they are not. Therefore, in practice, the Consumers Act should be clearer, so their rights should be clearly regulated and we will propose an amendment to delete Article 16 which prescribes the obligation to pass an expert examination of consumer protection and information, and we expect the Government to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124546	The second is the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124547	I would like to thank the president, the respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, yesterday we spoke under free speech regarding the law that came into force with 1.1 about personal bankruptcy, I think this is also one step further. I'm going to briefly elaborate on what's in the replica, and I think by setting up advisory bodies in local self-government units, for sure or by the authorities themselves, it's going to be a good step if we take that key step, which is that people absolutely know where they can consult on their rights. So there's even an indication that there are certain associations, that they'll be obliged to put a list of such ones, I think they should go one step further, certainly one informative and educational campaign because it's not our goal to have a good law, the goal is that the law is enforceable, that people use all the benefits of this law. What's certainly good, now this colleague of Sladolev was talking about a professional exam or not, if you give someone a certain obligation more or less with some public authority, then you have to make sure they do it in some way. In what way, is it a professional exam or some other, I would rather have the proposal go in that sense, that there are not people who aren't very professional or who are trained or who don't understand matter so that they advise, then even counterproductive, maybe it doesn't have to be a professional exam, but something we have to provide. I see in this way that it is one way that will ensure that the basic rights of consumers are really when you come somewhere, and that is so everywhere when it comes to certain institutions of the state and public authority and providing some public services, that you can trust the person who gives you this advice and not that later you have to go back to a lawyer and pay because you don't know or you don't know for sure or give you a lot of trust and when someone gets a certain certificate, then it's still important and it's all really in order to protect consumers. What's most important here and what I said and in the replica is that we understand each other and harmonize is this commercial practice where when we talk about any items, the most important thing that matters is when it comes to clothes and clothes, especially clothing and reduction because you see up to 70%, 80% of you go inside, maybe you can find an item that is probably neither interesting nor important, and everything else is far less. This is exactly what this law wants to avoid, or what it forbids, to use these discounts for advertising purposes, so this is this particular example of advertising where a large number of discounts is placed on the window, then they draw you in and it actually refers to something less interesting or only one item so that on that side it is absolutely to greet and I think it is the same good step. What is and in which I had the most in fact that would be the most spear that would break, is related to the amendment of Article 6 and that is, Article 10 of these final amendments, it is about contracts concluded by means of a special law governing electronic communications, or to being totally clear, telephoned. We know that most of us and most of the citizens are their own at least extra services if not the basic services of the phone, television, etc., they made it on the phone and what happens is that you're talking to some operator who's talking to you there, you're asking for a favor to think it's a price for someone else and you get something else, and then most often people don't call it, it wasn't, it was like this, it was like 12, 24 months. They put up with it because they don't feel like doing 20, 30, 50 kunas see the complications they call, so they explain something, it's not that speed of the Internet, you know it's just you if you have a cable, it's not on our wireless, of course nobody tells you that when you're making a speed contract or you don't have those networks, etc. So there are a lot of different conditions when you want to fix something and when you sign it or when you say yes, there is no mention of it. So it's good that everything that's been arranged on the phone is this law that will allow, where they have to be sent black on white, whether by email, whether by e-mail or by any other electronic means, even through some app on their cell phone, whatever, but it has to be somewhere that would be said, black on white. Also, you have to agree with that. Even with one word, I agree, I agree, I sign, however, it doesn't have to be a physical signature because we want digitization, we don't want to burden people, and we want people to know exactly that, I got everything, it says how much it's going to cost me, what's there and thus ensure quality and fairer and fairer commercial practice. However, if we have a situation where we just want to do something on the phone right now and right now, I want to activate some option tonight that I can use it tonight or that I can use it tonight, tomorrow, not to get in trouble or people who don't have the availability of electronic communications, e-mails or anything else but must be written by post, etc. And then they have to wait for that procedure. My proposal, I don't know if it's even put into law to make it possible so-called. As we have those rolling contracts, you know when you run out of contracts with some teleoperator, you have it from month to month and you pay and everything goes the same and you end the contract and you come today, we say now it's enough, we break up, the same day it breaks up, no one has a pen, no contractual penalties, there's nothing because the contract is over. In my opinion, it would be good to allow the same thing by telephone, that 30 days you can get a favor, that you get the bill that you are required to pay, also so that you can say that they have to send you the contract proposal again or all the items because it obliges you for a period of 12, 6, 18, 24 months. However, depending on the price and the offer, but that you can get the service tomorrow as it was today and you pay that service, pay for a month, it is, I say, that service can be more expensive, it is not a problem because it is only a month. You don't have to sign a basic contract, someone comes in, send an operator, a repairman, to install you, all right, I understand that part. But let that possibility exist. Is it necessary for this law to be arranged, put, leave it in a way that the operators don't say yes, but people will ask us for a favor and then they won't pay, we don't have any contractual obligation to chase them, maybe so leave that window in the law so that in this way you can make a contract, I quote the contract, but the requirement to activate the service is up to a maximum of 30 days. It means for one month that someone can activate and that they have the right to ask him for what he ordered to make an account for him, but for 30 days, not for 18 months, 24 etc. Because then if a man sees that he's done something wrong, yet that month can't be that big amount and a big commitment like that for 24 months now, and then there's a lot of peritition about changing. And I think we're going to get speed, flexibility, the possibility of getting easier service, faster service to our citizens, so here I'm talking about citizens' interests, not teleopers, citizens who want something right now, and something right now, to make it possible for them, and not for the teleoper to say that, but we can't do that to you tomorrow because you're going to play us, because it doesn't have a contract obligation, and we can't even sue you for it. And then you have to wait for the whole procedure. Or says he can, but you'll pay it, I don't know how much, xy more money or some deposit, insurance, that you won't break up, I don't know what they won't invent because be sure none of those teleopers will do themselves any harm or any big risk. That's what I think we all know. That's why I want them to have a legal basis, but everything that our citizens can get for a short period of time, and I hope that we can work out that way, although in the form of amendments, it's not something spectacular. But to make it possible, so in those 30 days, they get one offer, so they don't, so they ask for another offer, but those 30 days they will pay what they have originally agreed on, and they will get that account, which they say is no longer valid, they have to re-proceed or sign and send consent to that basic contract, and then from the moment they send consent, they are going to be subject to obligations from the contract and the part they used is calculated in proportion. So that someone doesn't come along to activate some favor we heard from the sports package today, use it tonight, and tomorrow says I won't do anything else. And there's nothing you can do to him because you have no legal basis to burden him, no contractual obligations, nothing. Because be sure our people will always look for a shortcut wherever they can. Generally speaking, when I mentioned earlier, I think that this is one of those benefits and when we talk about the EU and the protection of the rights of both consumers and the equalisation of all EU citizens, this is very important in all segments of consumers, here we are talking specifically about teleopers, but this applies to all and commercial practices, etc., my colleague Alexic also mentioned banks. So the consumer is the one who buys a particular product, or spends his money, it can be anything, even for money, and it pays by interest or the price of that money. So this is certainly something that will bring more protection, which will bring quality and services and products to our citizens themselves, but what they must know and that is the most important information about their rights. These advisory bodies are a step forward, but people need to know where to seek their rights. They need to know when wrongs happen to them at the mall, any store, whoever you call, where you make a complaint, in which way you react immediately. And I don't go home, I feel bad, and now I'm gonna tell someone something, I don't know who, I'm gonna look for on the Internet, etc. They must already know immediately whether through the obligation of all traders, such as I have the right and the submission of complaints in those flows, so to put that address, or whether they can come to some advisory body that is competent for that unit of local self-government or regional self-government, to put it, as you know, a million of those inscriptions, which is forbidden, which all has to have a trader to meet all those conditions not to get a sentence and then always have to have a way about the rules and the protection of consumers and the submission of complaints, the course, the book and the lecturer's way and how it is done, so let the competent advisory body for their protection to address them. Here, it's one of these concrete proposals that may not require that much money, I don't think it means to our entrepreneurs that it's just one piece of paper that they printed and put on another, that it's not some expense. Of course, it doesn't mean right now that if we agree to have someone come tomorrow and punish them.../incomprehensible/... we made it, I think we were talking when we talked about inspections, that there's always a warning and that's not why someone should be punished. But that one way to protect consumers, I think the same would be meaningful and certainly effective. If you get into a dispute because few people know that by writing an objection when an inspection comes, the question is when she will come, she always looks for that book and then she sees whether they have responded within the deadline or not, and that's why sanctions are being imposed. But, and our people don't want to be there either, or they don't want to, or whatever it is, I didn't really get the impression that this consumer protection institute, or this book of written complaints, because people don't know what it means, they think it's something they're saving for their memory, and it's actually a tool for inspectors to see if it's all about the rules and by the law. Here's the conclusion, the HNS club will, of course, accept these final bill proposals, I think that every step in protecting our consumers is good, let's see we're something... Well, as a rule, I think that I said the most important thing, and I hope that we can agree on this part of electronic communication, or through the conclusion of a contract through electronic forms of communication, and that we will make an even better step for our consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124548	The third club of MPs is the club of HDZ MPs, respected colleague Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124549	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are facing the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, primarily to comply with European legislation in the area of consumer protection and to bring about something that will change the situation on this subject. We all know that the applicable Consumer Protection Act was adopted in 2014 and has seen one amendment in 2015 to these amendments and amendments, other than compliance with EU legislation, introduce some changes in the current law. When we talk about special sales forms, and we know that this implies selling services products, at a lower price than the prices in regular sales, such as action sales, sale, seasonal reductions, legislators, is clearly prescribed, and all with the aim of harmonising with the Unfair Business Practice Directive, that the obligation to highlight the price of those regular or reduced prices refers exclusively to sales within business premises, while it does not apply to advertising and is also harmonised and modified by certain Member States and items. The law in force requires the establishment of advisory bodies in units of local, regional and regional self-government and public authorities, which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers. However, it has been shown in practice that it is necessary to define more precisely which bodies decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services. This law now stipulates that units of local self-government which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services, and public services are defined, are obliged to establish an advisory body and make decisions in a transparent, objective and particularly non-discriminatory manner, while traders providing public services are obliged to establish a consumer advertising commission. The association will have its representatives in one body and in another, and it is also prescribed that organisations should publish on their websites the list of units of local self-government and the list of traders established by the bodies provided for by this law. In practice, it means that we who are mayors or mayors will meet this provision, for example when we agreed to the public service price list or when we agreed to collect mixed municipal waste, biodegradable municipal waste and separate waste collection. We ourselves are aware of the importance of the consumer protection association and we know how much of their activities and actions, show that they are equal stakeholders in the implementation of consumer protection policy. In relation to the protection associations, it should be stressed that their fundamental role is to fight for the establishment of a fair market and for social and economic justice for consumers, to help build a consumer protection system, and to care for the voice of consumers, at local, regional and global level. This law recognises consumer protection associations as an important part of policy implementation, regulating their activities, and action. The legislator has now made it impossible for this person to give these persons who are authorised to represent the association, to use the activities of these same associations for private, business or any other interest. In order to highlight the importance of consumer advice, the proposal to amend the Law brings another paper, we know that in the Republic of Croatia, consumer advice centres, financed from the Croatian budget and providing their advisory services from various fields, trade, telecommunications, finance, tourism, such as The Split Consumer Protection Advisory Centre gave almost 5,000 tips to consumers from various areas in the last year. Taking into account the complexity of the issues in this area and the various amendments to the Law in their fields of action, it gives the prescribed obligation to pass an expert examination for persons who carry out consulting tasks, all with the aim of obtaining a quality fit, which will best recognise the role of consumers and introduce consumers to their rights and obligations. Fellow MPs and MPs should be welcomed by such a proposal for a final Law on Consumer Protection and Amendments, which contains provisions to raise consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia. Surely, citizens were often unaware that they could make a contract by phone and that it would create obligations for them especially in the field of electronic communications, which would only become aware if they received an account. It is therefore an extremely important provision, which suggests that the contract is considered to be concluded only after the consumer has received the offer to confirm its agreement on the conclusion of the contract to the trader. It is important to stress that the confirmation of the consent of the conclusion of the contract can be addressed both by e-mail and by means of other means which allow faster communication between the consumer and the trader. We all know how often, what fixed our phones are, what private phones are ringing and we're offered any offers of everything and then there's no conclusion whether or not a contract is concluded, stays hanging in the air and those on the other side of the network, they simply realize that we've given consent. From now on, with this amendment to the law, I believe there will be no more. It is also important that if a dispute arises between consumers and traders, the trader will have to prove that the Treaty has been concluded, thus significantly raising the protection of consumer rights when making a distance contract by telephone. Another newspaper, in this final proposal of the Law, refers to citizens' information on Consumer Advertising Committees, which we could hear from the Minister himself in more detail, in which direction the proposal of this Law will go on in this regard. Merchants providing public services such as electricity, heat, water services, municipal waste exports etc. must have established a Consumer Advertising Committee in the work of representatives of the Consumer Protection Association in order to protect the interests of the same. It is proposed that the Association and the Consumer Protection Associations publish on their website a list of labour traders whose committees are involved, which will increase the transparency of these provisions, as well as the information of citizens on representatives of the Consumer Protection Association who participate in the work of the Committee of Merchants providing public services. We could also point out and get out of this law, but what is very good, which the legislator provides for one synergy of local self-government according to the legislator, means that a ring relationship, so that the rights and obligations of consumers are crystallised and better conditions are created, not only in relation to the consumer-legislator or vice versa, but in order to not only satisfy here, as often said, the form of European legislation, but in order to really achieve the level that each of us as a consumer deserves. In this sense, it is necessary to welcome this Law and the HDZ Club to support this newspaper and the entire Act, and the amendment that the club will submit, I believe, will find, which is not something demanding, but is more technical, I believe the ministers will be from you and from the Government as the promoter of this Law and included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124550	Thank you. Before continuing, on behalf of the club of representatives, welcome students and students of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb who have joined us, welcome and welcome!... We continue on behalf of clubs with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, second reading. [[Applause]] Now on behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club, colleague Goran Aleksic, please welcome colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124551	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have an extremely important proposal to amend and supplement the Consumer Protection Act on which I have several amendments. If these amendments are accepted, this Law will be far better than that proposed. What I'm going to suggest and what I'm going to explain here is very acceptable to me, it is not contrary to the EU Directive, however, it is exactly in line with the Directives. EU directives require that in collective consumer protection each country has the right to regulate how to pay people back if they are damaged. So here, here, among other things, I'm trying to regulate, if you accept a way to make it much more efficient in the Republic of Croatia. But before we begin on these amendments, I would like to say a few words of importance for the Consumer Protection Associations that exist in the Republic of Croatia. I am asked by the Union of Consumer Protection Associations to say a few important details, that I will first say these several important details here. The financing of the Consumer Protection Advisory Centre has been abolished since 1 January 2019. These consultations worked with Consumer Protection Associations throughout the Republic of Croatia. During the year, they answered 25,000 questions, helping consumers to get their rights out of court before going to court at all. The Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has constantly praised the work done by the Associations and the Advisory Councils. However, since 1 January 2019, funding has been abolished and I wonder why this funding has been abolished, and the same questions are being asked by these associations, there have been experts, lawyers, economists who have helped people come to their rights in a simpler way, and I am here asking justifiablely, hopefully justifiablely, the question why it has been abolished. Here, I was asked by the Consumer Association to do it, so I did it. In addition, I would like to mention another association that is very important and important for the system in the Republic of Croatia, for the consumer protection system, it is the Franak Association. The Franak association, namely, one of the few associations that, let's say, without money from the budget, managed to achieve great results. There were some aids from the National Foundation’s cold-drive budget, there were aids based on some of the projects the Franak Association reported, so it received money for the projects. However, what Franak did fundamentally, the Franak Association financed the full process in the Franak case, therefore, the complete trial in the Franak case was financed by the Franak Association and it was exclusively from the membership fees of its members. This is a rare example of the Association which managed to finance, on the basis of its members' membership, such a judicial process which is currently the only such judicial process in the Republic of Croatia and, as we know, successfully for consumers, this year has been confirmed at the High Commercial Court, that banks have negotiated an unfair and currency clause and a variable interest rate with consumers who have negotiated loans with the Swiss franc currency clause, however, as the interest rates concern both the euro and the kuna debtors. Directly, this collective verdict applies to 150,000 people who have negotiated loans with the Swiss franc currency clause. So far, about 350,000 kuna has been spent in the collective process. The Franak Association paid all these 350,000 kunas for judicial and legal expenses. Unfortunately, the High Commercial Court found that the same success was achieved in terms of both banks and debtors. So that's why Franak's association won't get that money back. I, unfortunately, must say that this is a cardinal error of the High Court of Commerce because the banks were convicted because of the unsuspected currency of the bank were convicted because of the unfair application of the interest rate and the only thing the banks were not determined to do was to contract with the Swiss franc currency clause, change in contracts in kuna with an initial interest rate. It's the only thing that hasn't been decided. And even if it had been decided, it would no longer be possible to achieve this because there are no longer debtors with the Swiss franc currency clause because the conversion was made. So, this is an unfair judgment of the High Court of Commerce in the cost-related section, and I hope that, on the basis of the audits that the consumer has given at the Supreme Court, that, on the basis of that audit, the Supreme Court will make one exception and that it will pass the cost in a proportionate manner, and a proportionate way would be for me, 90% of the cost belongs to the consumer, i.e. Franak, and only 10% of the cost belongs to the banks. Because the banks failed more than 10% in the dispute. So, Franak was able to, exclusively with the money of its members to finance the whole process, Franak was able to finance only the money of its members and the big protest that was held in April 2015, we remember that protest, there were 20,000 people on the streets. People often talk about protests, they think the protest is happening on its own, but in order for the protest to happen, it needs to be organised, and the organisation needs volunteers, but it also needs huge money. A few hundred thousand kunas were spent for a protest there. It's the money of the Franak Association. The members of Franak Association are still funding the work of Franak, if they were not there, Franak could put the key in the lock, because Franak does not get the money from the budget. I hope that in the future, Franak will apply to this competition, which is made possible on the basis of amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, and I hope that it will succeed in accordance with this law in order to further ensure that the rights of consumers of financial services are better protected. I would do well so much about associations and now I would like to go on to explain the amendment and explain what I would like to further prescribe in the Consumer Protection Act. So in the Consumer Protection Act, The 12th amendment and addition is proposed one amendment to the Article. Paragraph 1 of point 2 where a part relating to the Law on Mandatory Relations is proposed, but not sufficiently defined. Excuse me, that's an art. Article 106(1), point 2. According to the proposal to amend the Consumer Protection Act, the point would be that collective protection, or collective judgment, could be imposed on the basis of a law governing mandatory relations in the part relating to liability for material deficiencies and the guarantee of the correctness of the sales matter. I think that's not well-prescribed enough. Why do I think that's not well-prescribed enough? I will explain this a little later, but what I suggest is that this point is as follows, that instead of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes, it says that collective action can be brought on the basis of a law governing mandatory relations in the part relating to the binding content of contractual provisions and the material disadvantages and guarantee of the correctness of the sales matter. So, in addition to this section on material disadvantages, I suggest that it also applies to that part of the mandatory relationship law, which refers to the binding content of the contractual provisions. Why do I say it's important? We had to go back to this Frank case, the collective Frank case, where, apart from violating the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, the collective verdict found that the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, the provisions of EU law, were violated in the judgment itself, and the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations in Article. 269.-272. Under the Consumer Protection Act, Art. In 269-272, they are not articles on the basis of which collective service could be achieved, and these articles are extremely important for consumer protection. What's this about? Those articles are prescribed to be a contractual provision. The contractual provision in all contracts, therefore not only in the contracts negotiated by banks, but in all contracts, must be specific, and what is the contractual provision that is applicable? She's such that she's explicitly defined. So in the contract, when something is prescribed some giving, some kind of obligation, something that the consumer must meet towards the trader. Such a contractual provision must be specific, and in order for it to be quantifiable, it must be exact as necessary and mathematically shown. In order for it to be exact and mathematically shown, it must also be market-based. In order for it to be market-based, such contractual provision must exist in public. And what the banks did in the Franak case, they negotiated a contractual provision to change the interest rate in a way that changed the interest rate by decision of the bank. Both the Municipal Court of this Commercial Court in Zagreb and the High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, all courts have found that such a contractual provision is not binding. It is not specified because there are no data on the basis of which it is determined. Therefore, apart from the violation of the Consumer Protection Act, which says that the unfair and corrupt contractual provisions which were not negotiated, which were inserted into the type contract and which later caused the imbalance of rights and obligations to consumers. In addition, the unfair and harmful contractual provisions which are indeterminate, and this very provision on the change in the interest rate that is changed by the decision of the bank, is an unfair and indeterminate contractual provision. Because it is indeterminate because it is both unfair and because we already have in a collective case which has just ended, recently in June, which in this dispute we have found indeterminate interest rate based on the Law on Mandatory Relations should be added to the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act which states that collective action can be brought under the Law on Mandatory Relations and in that section on binding contractual provisions. That's why it's not enough that it's proposed to write just that it refers to material disadvantages and guarantees for, for the correctness of the sold things. It is also necessary to extend this to binding type provisions in contracts. Besides, I'm going to have a few more amendments now I don't have time to talk about this part of it, I'm going to talk about an individual debate, but mostly I'm just going to look back at what I'm trying to achieve with the other amendments that I'm proposing. What we have received in a collective court ruling is a declarative nature, an abstract verdict because it does not speak of anyone with a name and a last name, but says some consumers who have negotiated such and such contractual provisions have been damaged because the bank has negotiated unfair contractual provisions with them. And now, on the basis of one such verdict, consumers have to go to court, and it is 125,000 consumers, it is 125,000 people who are damaged by the unfair business of banks and it is more than 10 billion kuna that banks have to return to those consumers on the basis of a collective court ruling. However, banks are not obliged to pay that money back until the consumer goes to court and asks in his private lawsuit for that money to be returned. I believe that it is the duty of the Republic of Croatia, as sovereign states, to systematically impose a legal solution on banks based on a particular methodology, on the basis of a collective court ruling to calculate and calculate how many amounts it is overpaid and to offer these overpaid amounts to the debtors extrajudicially to return to them. I'll explain it in an individual debate, and for now that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124552	Thank you, too, before continuing on behalf of the Representatives' Club, Minister Darko Horvat's intervention, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124553	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, just one brief remark or distinguished parliamentary representative, I know it is difficult to follow everything that comes to you in the mail, all those requests, no matter how well-intentioned or in the background, some strange thought, but here because of the transparent reporting of the Croatian public I want to give to the Croatian public, all of you here today present in the debate and to all those who are part of the interested public or in any way involved in this process I want to give again transparent, credible information. So it's not true that the Ministry of Economy or any other institution is abolishing funding for anything. It just changes the methodology of that funding. Let us not forget that during 2018 we included two additional associations in the funding methodology and nothing was free, all of this was paid from the state budget. What effects we have received after we have conducted a general study can be made to both the Croatian public and all of you interested in the podstrat report or the results of this research. But what is the fact and what the Croatian public needs to know, the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts will in 2019 grant financial support amounting to a million and 400 thousand kuna through a transparent public tender for the award of financial support to projects of associations operating in the area of consumer rights protection and for innovative and sustainable projects with the aim of further development of consumer protection associations in the Republic of Croatia. This same competition that we announced in the second half of last year was launched on 21 December 2018, you can see all relevant facts about it on the Ministry of Economy website, and we will receive project applications by 21 January 2019. This competition also created a framework for the application of up to 20 organizations working today in the consumer protection segment, and the old methodology did not have the opportunity to use any source of funding in its activities. Therefore, we will continue to provide financial support to consumer organisations in the Republic of Croatia and will grant the competition in question a million and 400 thousand kuna, and will be distributed according to a project that can receive financial support in the amount of 20 to 70 thousand kuna to all consumer protection associations in the Republic of Croatia that show and prove that they have an innovative and sustainable project with which they want to go towards consumers in 2019. And what is important, therefore, is that each of the associations, if they hit and did a project that we will consider to be a quality and contribution and education of consumers and consumer relations and consumer education by associations that such a project means to provide, one association can also receive two projects. In these project applications, associations can intertwine and propose the same projects to joint forces. What I want to say publicly and clearly, therefore, is that number 072 414-414 remains in office, so neither is it abolished nor does it do so, and also the central information system for consumer rights through which experts from the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts respond to a far, far greater number than the number you have said of the application or the question that takes place during the year. Therefore, nothing is abolished, nothing is done, a transparent public tender is launched and every association of citizens involved in education, promotion of the legislative framework and consumer rights is given an excellent project proposal to receive this 70,000 kuna, or 140 thousand kuna, which will then finance their project activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124554	Thank you, we have an i.e. for your exposure. We have four replicas on your intervention. First up is a colleague of Marin Schibola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124555	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Horvat, a month ago, I was with you at the ministry, and we discussed that article 17 of the Consumer Protection Act, which would have prevented corporations from putting advertising material on locks, i.e. Private doorknobs and thus endanger citizens' safety. You were favored by that proposal at the time. I'm interested in whether this proposal will be realised both in how and when. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124556	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124557	Dear Parliamentarian, I thank you for your statement of interest and for your overall interest in the consumer protection segment, therefore, we have already identified a kind of solution to this problem in this conversation. I then suggested that, as part of the amendments and additions to the intervention and procedure of any amendments, we enter into the subject and articles of that part of the regulation that I will not say you all disagree with, but which you want to do. Considering that. 17 is not subject to change and supplementation, since 17 but in one, perhaps not all the way you propose to regulate the issue, has its criminal provisions, I suggest, as I did then, that at the moment when we will accept the work of making Next Changes and Supplements [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We can reach out to the Art. 17 and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] reshape in accordance with [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Your proposal. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124558	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124559	Thank you. Dear Minister Horvat, you haven't really answered my previous question because you've spoken for a very long time, so you haven't answered. And I will mention you, however, one case, Hungary, had the same interest case as Croatia and in Hungary the banks agreed on an unfair contractual provision on the basis of which the banks changed interest by their own free will and then by the end of 2014, Hungary passed, or at the end of 2014, in 2015 I do not know exactly, a law that prescribed the way in which the banks returned complete money to the debtors in Hungary and then complained afterwards to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg recently made a decision that the banks were wrong and that the state had the right to do so, anyway, it is in accordance with the EU Directive. That's why I'm asking again, will you support the law to compensate all 150 thousand debtors after ending a complete court dispute in collective terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124560	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124561	Dear Parliamentarian, in these five minutes I took advantage of the opportunity, so I did not deny it, I did not suggest, I just wanted to put Croatian public and each of you individually on the table credible information and changes in the methodology of access to the financing of associations. I will not prejudge the decision, especially not the judicial or other proceedings. At the moment when we will have a credible and just decision of the court at that moment, we will discuss it and discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124562	Thank you. Next up is my colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124563	I thank the Vice President, Your Honor. I think it's good that you pointed out this about the consumer protection association and their funding, that it's good for the public and for the sake of the associations themselves. What I would like to do is actually try to agree a step further together, given that this law requires whether units of local self-government or legal persons with public authority are obliged to set up these advisory bodies where associations will be part of the incorporated. Of course, the issue of this same funding to me, in my experience and work, even in the NGO, has always been the best way of maintaining and making sense and long-term work of each association, so parallel to projects and here perhaps you should include local self-government units along with the state to say that the state that one part of them will be able to handle these now... bodies but that they must have that obligation of establishment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124564	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124565	Thank you very much. So here we carefully note every constructive proposal that happens in this debate. So today we already have identified the desire of HACOM, the Ministry of Agriculture and the CNB to join funding in this way designed projects. I agree with you, given that this transparency in communication goes and works through units of local and regional self-government, we will try to identify in the next few months whether there is a desire and possibility, if there is in such a transparent way in the form of a public tender, then make a synergy effect of all these means available in the publication of the first next competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124566	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124567	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is good that you intervened in a way that you intervened for a simple reason that everyone must be aware that they are attacking certain proposals in this law, that they cannot get the money by default only because they exist but to get the money, they must do something and when you look at the great problems in which Croatian citizens find themselves as consumers and even many small businesses and craftsmen who are not sufficiently informed, so there is no information. There is no education and perhaps this law when it is passed, perhaps only the Ministry or the Association, someone else should simply substrate to Croatian citizens who are offered opportunities to intervene and when they feel deceived. And just one more thing, when we talked about agencies and their numbers, it doesn't matter how many there are, but if they're doing their job. They are established as independent institutions that should protect those who provide and those who receive services. So those who don't always work are too expensive, those who do protect them, they're never too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124568	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124569	Thank you very much. So I'm trying to give here a very short period of time to this menu as many relevant information as possible, a respected parliamentary representative, and I agree with your proposal and you for information, we made a set of promotional actions during 2018 in 11 cities of the Republic of Croatia, on the rules of two inter-resorship communications and in such a way in inter-resord cooperation and in direct access and contact of consumers with valuable people of the Ministry of Economy who are working on this project, and we will continue in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124570	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next colleague, Boris Lalovac, is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please welcome your colleague, Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers with Associates. In front of us today is the second reading of the Consumer Protection Act, we saw through this morning's debate that we are all consumers and that we are all every day, we buy, we sell certain products, we order by phone, phone sales, means the development of some new technologies, and that every day we actually encounter a number of problems. And it's hard to cover all the problems that many citizens buy when they buy certain services with one law. This is simply difficult, simply impossible and something that is actually recognised at EU level so that such a directive is actually made to try to capture it and that is one of the reasons why we are today adopting the Consumer Protection Act is to fully comply with the provisions of the directive on unfair business practice in a way that makes it more clear that obligations to highlight two prices relate exclusively to sales within business premises as if it does not apply to advertising. A few days ago, when this season began, I watched one show and now they appeared from different regional centres, it was Zagreb, it was Belgrade and it was Sarajevo and it was just questionable how they behave in this holiday season, how they have consumers in the Republic versus the region, how they are protected and I have to be honest that then, without looking at how much trouble everyone has, given that Croatian consumers are when you look at the region and access to the EU and some of the benefits they have actually brought to us, are just like this kind of laws, the Consumer Protection Act, because believe me, there is always worse somewhere. So that we should sometimes not be too critical in these things, we should be critical that we want to be better, that we want to get closer, that we have the Consumer Protection Act, similar and that we have citizens, that we are closer to Austria, Germany and large European countries, but on the other hand we need to understand in one environment and those traders that act very much in this regional area so that all of Croatia's certain steps and benefits in joining the EU are one and under the application of the Consumer Protection Act. The simple question arises as to why we might have been admitted to the EU in 2003, 2004, when Slovenia was admitted, perhaps if we had a Swiss franc in the Republic of Croatia at all. You probably wouldn't, you know why? Because it is the consumer protection directive that says they cannot be given on the financial market in different currencies compared to the currency you receive from the main income. Maybe we were because you see you didn't see that there's this Swiss franc, there's it in Germany, there's one in France, there's one in some other countries, because the directives very clearly limit the value of financial products to their citizens unless you're receiving income from that currency. In other words, it is these edge areas that have not been in the EU that have not been able to use these benefits, that you see the flats of the Swiss franc. In both Croatia and Bosnia, Serbia, in the whole region of Hungary when they were not, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, etc., all those countries that were not even in that EU area so that sometimes as critical as we are, we believe that the application of some directives, some European rights is a good step and that we can cover all of this with one law, we ourselves are aware because we are simply these new technologies, you see and how we order products today, and how we did it before. So in this context, support to the ministry in implementing this project and it is not easy for many consumers, says all consumers, 4.5 million daily consumers, to respond and organise a system like you ministers, now said, how to organise a system on the ground to get to the smallest municipalities, to the smallest consumer, and to hear its voice, to react spotively and this way where the provisions of the applicable Consumer Protection Act are now being laid down in order to set up advisory bodies by means of public authorities, units of local self-government, means getting even closer to the ground and to be even closer to the consumer, I find them right and good. Also, I think that this is good, which has been transposed through a particular directive is that the independence and impartiality of consumer protection associations in such a way that persons who are authorised to represent associations, members of the body of the association and of any other members of the association should not be used in parts of associations for the achievement of private, business or other interest because, through a number of different associations, you have diverse and political interests and the realization of your other interests, and you are funded for example. public money from the budget to achieve some other service for consumer protection. And it's very clear there, and I think it's a good thing that this part is separated, that one who deals with consumer protection, that only these consumer works should be dealt with, and thus put forward certain proposals. Also, I've been talking about the debt resale market here for the last time, and I know that this can't be resolved by this law, we've talked more out of it there's a law on mandatory relations that allows for the real sale of private debt of citizens, and here we think that it's one problem that we see that on the Croatian market about 20 billion kunas of financial claims that have been agreed on, where it was exclusively the jurisdiction of the CNB because I'm just warning the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the CNB has pushed 20 billion kunas from its balance sheet, from the balance sheet of banks that were controlled by the CNB because when you have a certain relationship with the business bank and you sign it then and you regret it and you can complain about it, because you can're looking for the money that today, as well as well as the minister said in this work, but what happens, in all those who have res and most important it's been res sold, and you can're able to buy it, because you can're looking for the money, because you can're not really, you can're looking for the money, you can't pay, but you can't pay, you can't pay money, you can', but you can', but you can', you can', but you can', but you can't, you can't for the money, you can't pay, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't pay, but you can't pay, you can', you can', you can' Here was one of my appeals to not only the Ministry of Economy, I say that I know they don't have all the options, but also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to talk to the CNB and try to see that part where the CNB pushed the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with the team, we saw last year and we saw certain laws to deal with this debt reselling problem, let's be honest, and the government has nothing to do with it, these are relations that the CNB, business banks and citizens were supposed to control. And now this one hot cake is pushed into the market and they say get rid of it, get rid of it by the government, and when it's negotiated, when it's agreed and what you see all the time and the governor's warnings. What was his recent warning, that a very large amount of loan over 4 billion kuna comes to the market, that citizens took money from non-intentional cash loans without insurance of more than 4 billion kunas on the market. Why did people get that money? Probably to close these debts that these resell, or that's number one, you're creating a parallel market. So you're creating the ones that... What did the bankers do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Selling claims, making certain tax reliefs, creating a new product, means non-intentional cash credits that they say through a cell phone you can download that application, whether or not citizens re-created those 4 billion kunas to close their claim. And now what I have to react to all the time, the CNB warns me. Look, they're not here to warn, they're here to act because it's about risk management and how if they don't have a chance and they see a new balloon pumping, they're communicating with the government to regulate themselves legally because again these citizens who are now on the market with 4 billion kuna cash, who can get through their cell phones and listen to the bank association, says that we've made an assessment, the evaluation of these risks that these citizens can raise on the phone, so that you can raise 100,000 kuna, 200 to 500 000, so that they can raise that money. So I think that we are creating a new balloon, a new balloon in the area of financial claims that have been resold on the market and the way that citizens solve, solve their existential problems, and that there has to be a more active role of CNB not to warn, they are not meteorologists we have repeatedly said there, they have to act or legally and say there have been no good assessments of the bank's risks have violated the provisions of risk management because how you can get through the phone to click, you can get often up to 500,000 kuna of money that is unsecured and on the other hand push that problem to the government, so she says here you see the government this one or she can't solve, can't solve or can solve this problem. So, this Consumer Protection Act will support the SDP club, and I say what we said in the EU's accession that we will also protect Croatian consumers in this way. However, market transactions are much wider not to enter these currencies, virtually different currencies, various different kinds of these I say non-intentional cash loans and then, and here today we talked about teleoperators and then and then, and then they create that part of 40 billion kuna when you see the structure of those debts of citizens of 40 billion kuna, you see that 50% that they were banking services, that there were 10% teleoperators etc., etc., I simply say all of this is not possible by law and it can't be just the role of government, but it's also the role and monetary authorities to support consumers, and not all of them just push is not important to this or that government in solving these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124572	Thank you very much, colleague Lalovec. We will continue on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Comrade Goran Beus please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU, I must say that we are not satisfied with the basic purpose of this law, namely its name says it must be maximum concentration on consumer protection. We know that consumer rights are not only regulated, but simply defined in a certain space, within a certain framework and in many other laws, and the fact is that consumer protection as a new institute is actually a fluid of our era. However, we also know that consumers today are more than ever exposed to various forms of manipulation and fraud that count on their ignorance, ignorance, and if we want to be greedy, because an honest man by nature believes promises, so he does not enter into any relationship with figs in the pocket of apriors by not believing who offers and speaks to him, and the other thing is that practice and real life makes us, creating first of all skeptics. And while that is the case, the tasks of the ministry and government, and then us as legislators, are to set the most possible standards for consumer protection, but not only on paper but also in practice. Reading all the documents that came with this bill I was particularly interested in, the ministry's reaction to what was said in the debate on the first reading and I see that some things haven't even changed, here I am now calling this famous number 072414414, of course they still don't inform you that this call is being charged to you, so the Ministry of Economy doesn't have a recorded message saying, this conversation is being charged, and it's being charged, 1 minute talks in fixed nets costs 35 lips, if you're calling from mobile 1.45 kuna. So, the ministry doesn't do the basic thing, as we expect from others, if you present as someone who protects the interests of citizens as consumers and you offer through the central information service the number of phones they can, through which they can turn for help, and at the beginning you cheat them because you didn't tell them you were going to charge them for what they called you, it's not correct. Minister, I hope you're able to handle this within two days, be fair to the citizens in that sense, so say charged, that's what you're obliged to say. So when someone calls he needs to know under what conditions he's doing business with you, because it's the same business as soon as you take the money. The minister tried to explain the ministry's position on the future of regional consultations, unfortunately he did not convince us of the correct position. We can now talk about the amount planned this year, which will be assigned to the competition, the minister says 20 associations that is one pair of sleeves. The role of information and education associations is one pair of sleeves, and the other pair of sleeves is the work of regional counselling centres, these are serious things, and let's not hide with a fig tree the fact that regional counselling centres, I'm talking about the largest centres, have done a huge job in 13-year history that the ministry cannot sublime. 25,000 requests are processed annually in these regional consultations, they no longer have the financial support of the state since 1 January of this year, if they were to go to this model to believe the minister, that their activity will be financed, so wait for a little 70,000 kuna for so-called. projects, project funds. What we're talking about, so half of these funds have to go to the cold drive of that place, and then you have something small to do with education and information campaigns, because the key thing that associations have to engage in is information campaigns for citizens, not palitative. Paliativa is the job of regional consultation centres, according to the National Programme from 2017 to 2019 that this will be done precisely through these regional centres. If they don't win that contest by chance, then they won't, so what's the national program for, why did we bring it in at all? So you didn't convince us. It is said only 5.7% of citizens would address associations and regional consultations. Well, as if that's a little bit, God's people, it's 250,000 people in the Republic of Croatia, for God's sake. Well, it's a key argument to strengthen that system. Compared to 25,000 people who are doing this right now, we have potentially 10 times more people who, if they're suspended, if they're in a situation where they're wrong or if they're suspected of being deceived, they'd turn to them instead of the ministry. What is our practice, remember, is very fresh, in December many traders announced to all the bells that due to the announced descent of VAT on the product palette, above all in nutrition and pharmaceuticals, there will be a rapid reduction in prices. They've told you since 1.12 we're giving you prices as if VAT had already been removed. Remember those campaigns? Come to us, he's been telling us since 1.12. It's already worth removing the VAT. What's in practice? A total of less than 1% of the food price correction, and above all we are talking about fruit, vegetables and meat. It's a notorious scam, does anyone react to that? And on the other hand, let's look at today's one-day update that helped us in that analysis, only in the last quarter of 2018 the price of barrels of crude oil fell 40%. What were the fuel corrections? About 10. They were supposed to be around 20, but only 10. On the first days of January, there was a correction of the barrel prices for more, for a few dollars, it immediately went to the fuel price correction. Well, we have assured ourselves and the public here that, for example, in the event of a decrease in VAT to 13% for a range of certain products, there will be a significant reduction. That's not happening. We have exposed consumers to the mercy of the market, the fact. But if we are already passing the Consumer Protection Act, it must be from the beginning to the end. I agree, there should be a law on the protection of merchants, we must not create an anti-enterprise, anti-trafficking climate, we would be the last fools to do this and it is extremely irresponsible, we must open up a space to create new values but in fair relations. The task of the state is to establish such relations that will be fair and not looting. What else is that 9.99 model than a robbery? These are things that shouldn't be allowed. You can't even put a price on a currency if there's no coin on it. How can something like that happen? We know that less than five limes don't exist in circulation, and then what about the price of 56 limes? So the role of the state is that in such situations it reacts, that a man who spends his money protects, informs, educates, and not narrows that space down to the abolition of regional consultations, and what now, will now be awarded 70,000 kuna through the public tender system to each association. It's back to being a regular. Well, it's not the same thing if the association's been functioning for 13 years, it's got a big drive and it's been doing great things for years, let's say, for the entire county, or the association is small. Let's think about it. I think it would be more constructive to approach in a different way, which is to allocate funds for institutional assistance and to strengthen the work of associations, to create additional capacities and then to create space to finance specific programmes. Institutional assistance is one thing, programs are another. If you do not know how this work is done, please contact the institution that is doing it perfectly, first and only in the Republic of Croatia from the beginning to the end and that is the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. They have complete models and 17 years or 16 years of history in it. And everyone will be grateful to you, including the consumers. And secondly, I'm very interested in when you're going to announce this public tender just don't let it happen as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs that announced the competition before the summer, it's public commitment to publish the results by August 31st, it was announced at the beginning of the 11th. and the contracts concluded at the end of the 12th, shame. She ate a whole budget year. And you already know, not now, but at the time of the adoption of the state budget, you know how much resources you have at your disposal and you could have already announced this competition and if you are correct and if you really want what the Minister said in the introduction, then publish that competition within 10 days. Is it already published? Great. I am very interested in when the results will be published because we have cases and that should be said, let's say, when they are being handled by the European Social Fund, we have competitions that ended in the 5th month. Last year, until the end of the year, no contracts were concluded, so there was no realisation. It's a huge asset, and I hope it doesn't happen in this case. If therefore the tender is announced, if it is completed, you are able to evaluate it practically by the end of February and allow it to all function normally. In that sense, if that's the case, then we'll take your word for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124574	Before continuing on behalf of the club of representatives, Mr. Horvat's intervention, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124575	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So what pleases me, I'm glad that this is both my exposure today and in the opening and this my intervention that happened was very educational for at least some of you. You've heard the number, you've never used it before, you've tried to call it, you've got a reaction on the other side, and if by some case you've had complete information, then in that educational part of the story you'd get either from the Ministry of Economy's website where large yellow letters are listed that number and also large yellow letters indicate that the call to that number is chargeable and from the fixed network is 23 June, and from the mobile network of 1.45 with VAT, including, therefore, without VAT, so all of this discussion is going to our cause and when we're a little bit interested, and we're not waiting for home-secrets to put the information on the table itself, then in some way this fixed financing of something that we don't think we't give the full effect to transform into one activity that we're looking for a response from those who want to offer a quality project, and we're willing to finance it, but you know, in a whole way, in which way, in which way, in which way, in fact, you know, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, you's the way, you'really. And I think it's one turn and I think it's a good turn. I will repeat to all of us here that the public tender in question is launched on December 21st, published on the Ministry of Economy's website, that project applications are received by January 21st, that what we expect and more than 20 associations can occur in it, that two quality proposals can be made by the same association, that associations can network their performances and their activity intensity, and that, then, as a responsible budget holder, we can commit that such projects that will receive a measurable project are financed from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124576	One replica, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124577	Dear Mr. Minister, I appreciate your efforts, but you're not exactly at fault with the facts, namely, I'm in and out of the first reading and I called it from this pay phone the number that we're talking about, but I didn't hear from anyone because the debate was after 14 hours. Namely, the number only works from 10-14 hours. You know, it's for people... Yes, you know, I don't know if it's your practice to look for all the information you need from the site's government and ministries or to go on search engines. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, it's common to type in what you're interested in and on the search engines you'll get that number and there's no need, and I think it's crazy that you have to go to the Ministry of Economy's website to get information to get to that number and then read all the instructions. Namely, these things must be as accessible as possible. At that moment, Pero could have told me what number it was. So I have to get the information the moment I call that number that it's charged and that this number we said is increased by VAT Otherwise, someone's marrying me for nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124578	Thanks, buddy. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124579	Here I again welcome this initiative and I promise to both you and the general Croatian public that this is exactly what will happen when it comes to reporting, aware of the fact that these are not the only sources of opportunity and consumer information, and that is exactly what we agree on. Therefore, the breadth of those who will be educated and who will provide specific information to the consumer is the intensity of such a single twist in the financing of this whole thing. But in addition to this competition, in all the campaign actions that we have been doing during the year, there are still additional funds, primarily European ones, which are directly distributed to consumers in the form of a variety of promotional materials, so that consumers are adequately informed through these brochures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124580	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124581	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, at this point I can say what I personally think, and I hope that, given that this is the case with independent representatives, I hope that they will support me in that decision. In fact, we intend to support these amendments to the law because, as I said in the replica, I think they're going in the right direction, now, the only thing we're worried about is the intensity in this part where I'm going to say something later, it's not strong enough. Like when Luka Modrić, the best player in the world, has a great direction, shoots the ball well, but often the intensity of his shot is weak, he would give a lot more goals. So before I go to the very core of what I want to introduce here to the minister and what we're going to do with the amendment, just to give two vivid examples. In fact, people say, I don't know if it's true that in the summer months when a certain type of beer gets a little bit more drunk, when brewers can't make as much as they need, then brewers carry each other with beer. And you've got beer-sponsored people who want to drink just that kind of beer and then people buy that kind of beer even though it actually came from another brewery. A man doesn't even have to feel it, he doesn't even have to know it's another beer made in another brewery. And the second situation I'm in, I haven't been paying attention to it yet, something I remember when I saw this bill, I'm filling up the fuel, and then regularly at the gas stations you've got and they're still their product, so it's not enough to write diesel, but it's writing something else, what I know as a consumer that there are additives in that fuel plant, I don't know, nowhere is it pointed out at the gas station that the additives are actually put in there, it's additives that help burn, which make engine work better, better oiling, but we as consumers don't know it, we can just trust traders that it's like, or I'm not informed enough, which are additives, and even if I knew, maybe I don't have enough knowledge to understand what those additives in that fuel work. Now let's go to the very point and what seems to me in this law the most problematic. It is true that this legislative proposal is accompanied by a national consumer protection programme, however, in this section also talked about by counterpart Beus Richembergh, it is not clear until the end how the associations will function,... It was the focus of this consultation and how local self-government units will take over especially where there are no registered associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not clear from the legal proposal to the end. We in the Republic of Croatia have 4.3 million users in a mobile network of telecommunications services. 1.4 million telephone connections, 4.5 million broadband connections, either in mobile or in a fixed area and 800 000 households, watching television via cable network, whether satellite or digital network. So this is the case and according to HACOM's report on a very large market that weighs somewhere around $11.5 billion according to HACOM's report. So it's serious money. If he says right away in the beginning and I personally and my colleagues from the club, we don't have anything against teleoperators to make it that way, people are doing their job and trying to make as much money as possible, that's their right, they're investing in the network, that's what HACOM's report says. But what they have been doing all these years, and that has to be said clearly, was not a correct relationship with consumers. You have a customer service that you can call for days, that's where they work the truth, I guess students, according to a contract that I can't give the most accurate information about. How does that happen? Well, there's a statement from HACOM himself that says here, so I'll read what Hacom said. We're not going to go so far as to impose a phone break-up with our rules, but we're thinking of introducing a rule that needs to enable an identical conclusion to be broken down, so now it remains to be seen how the operators are going to do it. In principle, there is no reason why even the termination of the contract would not be done by telephone in a way identical to the conclusion. Therefore, the operator shall inform the operator of its wish to terminate the contract and then send the operator an e-mail or somehow otherwise a break-up notice. Now we're coming up with that problem that I was talking to the minister, there are even some teleopers that have their own websites on which you can open a user account, and there you can set up with them this correspondence that is spoken of here in some other ways. And what's going on? You can activate whatever service you want, you know what the catch is, so you can't deactivate any service, there's no way to deactivate it. You can only activate it. And then they ask you to send a written request that they deactivate that service to you. This one goes in this direction to the legislative proposal, the minister explained it, in Article 66, and where it is said that a confirmation must be obtained in some way, consumer consent but is still left, it bothers me now, it is left to me again in other ways, so the email is mentioned here. Here's an example of the email, you can establish contact with the teleoperator, he can offer you a specific service and ask you by e-mail, send me some more of your personal information so that I can present it differently and so on. The moment you send your data, he can say de facto you agreed to that service. Those are other ways. Here is the short story, we propose that Article 66 and Article 2 below the word to be delivered by the trader is added to the word signed, that this remains, "let the signed consent be delivered, but then left in Article 3, Article 3, in the case of other means of delivery of consent by consumers that allow faster communication between consumers and traders, then they must be defined by the rules on the way and conditions of carrying out the activities of electronic communications networks and services and that Regulation brings HACOM and it intends to bring it this year. And you, in cooperation with HAK, can decide to adopt that rule and to know exactly what other ways it is. To be clear, I think that the rulebook, that HACOM prepares even a form when offering these telecommunications services to make it clearer to everyone because then here it is, my colleague Schuker today, I'm glad to mention it, I like to watch football, and in one package that I got from a teleoper, was also the League of Champions. You know what absurd is? A fellow Shuker warned... I don't have that service anymore because they've lost the license, but even it's not absurd but it's absurd but I would now and pay that service to that teleoperer, but I can't even pay the favor, I have to like if I'd come into the store buying bread, flour and I need to buy cream, they say you can't buy cream with bread and flour but you buy now the wish, bananas then you'll get there, you understand, they... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To buy, no, I just said wrong now, even if you buy the same product again only there in that package the other one is and that's all you need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the things we'll take care of. I hope I didn't mess with this because you believe that, and this is mentioned by a colleague of Lalovac that somewhere and when we talk about blocked, 10% of these blocked accounts refer to teleopers and maybe to say something, I don't have any proof of it but I might have that feeling and some public people use it as there people are poor but they have two cell phones. Watch it's no longer a luxury, it's not a symbol of status, it's a way of life. This is how we live today. A new age has come, you can't have a child anymore, anyone who has children knows, you can't leave without a smart phone, without pills, it's a way of life and we can't accuse people of what... We've got the number on the user. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have to protect them from teleopers that are more powerful in this case, who have more money, have many things at their disposal. Please, Ministers, here is that, to consider this, this amendment if you can, if it is not well-conceived, perhaps to correct it to go as a government amendment simply for the purpose of better consumer protection, otherwise we don't have any other major remarks because this is still a step towards better protection, so here we will be, especially we will be happy if you accept this amendment and then we would support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124582	We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS colleague Davor Vlaović. Here you go, colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124583	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates, here are on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club a few words about the proposed law, amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act. We at HSS welcome that through this law, the Republic of Croatia will have a quality tool to protect consumers and it is certainly a great need and good for our consumers to have the opportunity to complain about all those unfair commercial practices. We are also pleased that it has been passed in Croatia and the Law on unfair, preventing unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. And it would say here we have two important tools to protect both consumers and domestic producers. However, in practice, the law on the prevention of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain has shown that we did not fully regulate this area in the protection of domestic producers because the law prescribed that all traders operating in the Republic of Croatia must sign new contracts with the supplier by 31.12 last year. From technical possibilities, they couldn't do it, let's prolong it until April 2018. However, from talks with craftsmen, entrepreneurs who were suppliers of these commercial houses in Croatia are informed that not everyone signed new contracts by the end of April. Why, because it is simply the one who has a monopoly, and these trade chains and houses have a monopoly and have put pressure on their suppliers and craftsmen and entrepreneurs from Croatia to agree to new conditions when signing this new contract where they say suppliers, our producers unfairly put everything under fair terms. And I'd like to see the 2018 report, yes, yes, if we're going to get it here, the Competition Protection Agency that's in charge of controlling the implementation of this law, what it's going to look like. I'm afraid that those with 9 employees, with salaries and equipment that they don't have these technical opportunities to follow to the end, because we also said in the adoption of this law that we have to strengthen that agency and that more people have to get a job and that they have to get quality support in technical and financial terms and I'm afraid we haven't really used this tool that we've brought in, well that we have the law, but we'll see how in practice and implementation it will be, and we can see that there's already been a problem in the beginning, because as one of the craftsmen, the supplier of a trading house, said, everything has become unfair in one way. He simply had to sign the contract and now he's having a hard time doing business, and I'm afraid that, yes, he's going to have to cut some production and cut down because he can't follow those conditions. It is also related to this Consumer Protection Act, of course, that it is good for us to comply with European directives, to prevent unfair commercial practices, that every consumer, every citizen of ours, has the right to know under which conditions he buys goods or services, where and whom he can complain if it is not achieved and what his rights are. However, in practice, the situation is that this is somewhere around 5% of our citizens have complained, and there are many more who do not complain. The problem is they don't believe in the system. Why they don't believe in the system, so all those lawsuits that were for unfair commercial practice, where our citizens have been cheated on trials for years and simply don't be ruled or passed, moreover, in different courts in similar cases of different judgments. Here is what my colleague Alexic already mentioned in the Franak case, it is unexplainable that in very similar cases different courts at different levels make different judgments. That's what prevents our citizens from complaining, from pressing charges against unfair commercial practices. First of all, it is not the Ministry of Economy's portfolio, but I think it is necessary here in the context of the adoption of this law, in order to restore citizens' confidence in the system we need to change the behaviour of both traders and manufacturers and customers, but of course also the upgrade. a system of courts and speed up judicial proceedings and be helpful to our citizens in these processes. And so here we welcome that this advisory role comes down to the ground so that people can contact their local self-government units to have quality information that they can complain about and get professional and legal help. I agree with this part that it is not good to abolish the funding of regional consultations because here I am a legislator in the context of the law-making process says that the analysis has shown that local self-government units do not have enough administrative human capacities, or financial ones that can form advisory bodies themselves and that it is proposed to set up joint bodies of several local self-government units, so why, when we already have regionals to change this now, and leave the possibility of more units of local self-government joining and establishing an advisory body, that's good. However, I think it would be good if each unit of local self-government could have an advisory body for consumers, but given their real capacities, administrative and financial it is, it is not realistic in the Republic of Croatia and it is certain that a regional advisory facility has quite well been resolved and it should not be significantly changed and what I want also pointed out is that it is good to keep this law transparent, so that consumers are informed, insists that it is published on the web pages of the list of traders and all those involved in this process and where, which the advisory bodies are established and who are in their composition. It is also proposed that the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of crafts on their websites also publish this, which is good. However, I think it is omitted here to put into the Law that units of local self-government have an obligation on their websites to publish this, so here, I propose that the legislator still include it, there is still time for and units of local self-government, whether they have an advisory body in their field to publish where citizens can get information is not exactly foreseen in the Law. Also when it comes to associations, they are important for the protection of consumers, they are organised in a way that their members of the Association, consumers, finance their membership fees and we see they are funded from the state budget, now they have to do it through a public competition, through projects, which is good to write projects. However, this does not ensure the continuity of quality funding and I think it will weaken the work itself of these Associations and it should be a little perhaps better-quality solution, and it is not in the law that anyone cannot finance the Consumer Protection Associations. So I ask the question and the question is, can trade houses, operators or public service providers be donors and Consumer Protection Associations? The law does not say that they must not, in other words, be able to, but then it is a conflict of interest because the question will then be whether the Consumer Protection Association, and they will have to look for sources of funding because surely in this way they will not get some funding from the state budget through the tender, then they will come into conflict of interest to finance them by the one against whom they should sue tomorrow or object to unfair commercial practices. I would also refer to this part when it comes to operators and unfair commercial practices, that it is unacceptable that you cannot break the contract, but the sport is mentioned, they have lost the license, some packages no longer have, you can't break the contract because you would like to watch these programs, but you can only break it at your own expense to pay for the penalty, and they have not reduced the price because they no longer provide the same service they have agreed to. So I don't think we're protecting enough in this way our citizens, our consumers, and that this way we still have that monopoly that has teletroopers in the Republic of Croatia. There are different practices from countries outside the EU, especially the problem with ordering goods and services from China and other countries where simply our citizens do not know who to complain to and then simply give up the complaint, and for the product they order via the Internet, which is worth 100 or 200 kn, they usually get something else or third, not the quality as advertised and because of this small value they do not complain. And because of that, this number of complaints mentioned here, about 250,000, certainly is not ultimately the number of citizens who have been deceived in that chain of trade, but it is certainly more and we need to find models that as many of our citizens as possible to complain, especially those of the weaker property in the undeveloped areas. We have the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, so here, I ask the question, can our double-crossed consumer, customer, get free legal aid in a lawsuit against a trader, because as far as I know, it's mostly in some other court cases, if not, I suggest that they can also introduce cases against commercial houses which have been cheated into the procurement process of some goods or services to get free legal aid. I think it would help our consumers who are poorer in property, especially pensioners, to exercise their right to receive compensation for a fraudd service or compensation or goods that have not been delivered to them by the quality they are asked for. Generally, it is good to adopt this Law, to comply with the European Directive on protection against unfair practices, but I have already said in advance, we must primarily change the functioning of the state institutions from the judiciary to the lower because we do not trust our citizens in these institutions because of what I have already stated, because of the slowness of the system, because of the different judgments in different courts in the same cases and as long as this is the case, there will be no more these 250 000 complaints, and it would certainly be 500 000 if we had a more high-quality system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124584	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate on behalf of the clubs. Before we move to an individual debate, let us welcome the students and pupils of the Management School from Zagreb who have joined us, good afternoon and welcome!... We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Miro Bulj, Since his colleagues are gone, in accordance with Article. 233 he loses further the right to speak on this agenda item. [[Applause]] After fellow Members of Mira Bulja, a colleague named Stjepan Curaj applied for an individual debate, please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124585	I thank the chairman. So, referring to the debate on behalf of the club, I will submit the amendment to the article. Ten. The laws of amendments that speak again about art. 66a., so I'll talk about it first, and then a few more things that we had here today and ask in the debate itself. Namely, this bill, I think it's going to put order into something that, I think, a number of our citizens have had experience that during the extension of the most common contract, an operator comes to you, offers you a package, so you say such a human, well, you can and then you get something practically you didn't even see, and maybe you just realized on account that it's not all that and that maybe it's not the price you thought it was. And, of course, people, by such an intruding, not to be called back again, to argue, to argue, it may not be in some large amount and be tied up, 12, 18 months for a particular teleoperer or certain services, so let me have some so that it's not crucial that I go with some fight, argue, file written complaints, complaints, which are then arranged, activated, faxed or whatever they're sending, etc., etc. How we already regulate it. Now, by this law, all what you arrange by phone, they have an obligation to send you taxed. And it's good that it's e-mailed, that we use modern technologies, whether it's mail, whether it's some apps, whether it's text messages, it's irrelevant, it's important that it's clear, understandable and available. Of course, not all of us, not all of our citizens, not all of us have access to certain technologies, and of course we need to know which way you want to go and how you want this offer to be delivered to you. And right here, there may be one problem, and all in the interest, again, of our consumers. What I'm about to finish, so you just have to send it alone, I agree, and from that day on, from that moment on, you actually signed the contract and you agreed to that offer in which it has to be clearly defined, here in the law it is not, but we'll probably define by regulation what everything in that must be stated, of course, the term of the duration, as well as any other contract, the deadline of the signed party, amounts to, etc. Now, we have a situation where you want something right now, whether it's a program that's available tonight or tomorrow, whether it's a teleoper service, a trip abroad or some extra gigabyte traffic, imagine, you've spent some traffic. And then you fall at that slow speed. You now want a bigger one, according to this, for once you should ask for it, they deliver it to you, so agreeing a certain one may arise a problem in correspondence. If you have all available electronic devices, my and our amendment goes in the direction of enabling the practice so far, but within no longer than 30 days or until the date of conclusion of the contract. That means, I call, I activate, I want to activate a certain service, I'm allowed to do it, as I've done so far. And it's being activated, but I need it to be a long-term service because this one would be at a level, and so I've listed in the amendment no longer than 30 days, in order for it to be a long-term thing, they have to go through this process that we're changing today. So, send everything taxing I've stated, and I have to agree with that. But that doesn't prevent them from activating me immediately if it's available or immediately the next working day as soon and of course, that's where we have to think about those service providers, that we have the right to charge it as we have every time. And not that there's some obnoxious activations, non-contractual signings, and then there's the legal basis for suing or charging what you ordered. But that's why we're limiting it to 30 days because I want something right now, I want it right now as a consumer tomorrow, not written by email, so it didn't come through, the processing, sometimes it can really take a quick time, and sometimes it can be complicated, I don't have all of it available again and measures, ways that.../incomprehensible/... maybe even someone doesn't have their own email, so they have to approve someone else's, and that one has to agree, that's where we come in with that GDPR, etc. So there may be different cogs in how, in which way HACOM will regulate that level of compliance of the authentication of the use of personal data to conclude a contract, etc. etc. It doesn't have to be, but we always know that some things can get complicated. So it's just good to leave this little window, to agree that what's important to us and what we want right now can be made possible, but that we have just 30 days to decide whether that's it, to get everything we've asked for, to want for a longer period or not. Also, I may not want a long-term commitment. I might just want something right now, just one time, just 30 days. And then this is actually exactly the way it's allowed to quickly and efficiently get that service requested within 30, no longer than 30 days, so basically a month and I get the bill after a month, if I want to, I have to take it again, call it, etc. etc. So maybe I never make a deal, I'll say, I want to call and activate every month, the month I don't activate, I won't. So it's something like that when you run out of contract with a teleoperator, and you keep using it, and you keep using it further, it's so-called. Rolling contract, in which you have all the services, all the conditions you've had before, but you can come at any time and say I won't do anything anymore. And there's no contractual obligation that prevents you or carries some penalty to break up. So here's one thing I certainly hope we can find solutions to enable our citizens, and on the other hand, of course, no operator will work at great risk or harm and we must protect them as well, and that it's absolutely clear, but let's go first from our citizens, let's give them first a more flexible, faster, more accessible service, of course, there won't be a service if someone doesn't find an interest in providing it, so this just makes sense. The second thing that I said on behalf of the club is about advisory bodies and the possibility that certain rules, whether through the Ministry of Economy, HAKOM is just increasing the information of our citizens or consumers and their rights, might be through that legal obligation to explain how to object through the article and the fact that there, on that notice which every trader must have and an address that they can get to know, that they can become familiar with their consumer rights. For that particular, it means, whether a web address, or an address or the name of an advisory body which is established here. And it's good what we had today, that I hope even in the future more money for it separates, the million and 400 ministers announced, that the tender is open until 21.1., so a few more days for associations to compete for their projects, and I think that, together with local self-government units, there should be a new one, which has the same obligation to set up these advisory bodies and a new model of funding, institutional financing where we know that these associations work best when they have the basic ones, even if they are minimum costs, if we are talking about minimum wages, covered overhead costs and everything else, that they can then normally compete for certain projects and of course cover their additional costs and work for some decent amount. Are we not going to get a quality expert who has to pass... which will work for $3.000,00, I think it's clear to all of us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have to make sure that they can get as much as they want and that there's no one coming into the unknown, and they want, they know, they can, they will, and they're educated, and we definitely need to get as much of that non-governmental sector as possible. I've already said that a few times here, in the Netherlands, and that's gonna end up, a lot of things, especially when we're talking about consumer protection is organized through certain Czech associations or special experts who care about their members and you pay membership fees, so, I'm not talking about that state, the state may institutionally finance something, but this... is theirs, I pay the membership fee and then they take care of me when I'm out of a job, when I need to get into a work dispute, when any of my rights, they provide lawyers, etc., etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what organizations that have millions and millions of members do. And then it doesn't matter if you're putting up with something and you're going into a fight with a calf operator, you poor kid, they know you on a pattern how to handle it or when someone who's serious and who absolutely knows what it's about and who's professional and who's got a big game in his legs. And that's this part of co-financing, funding and these advisory bodies, and especially those Consumer Protection Associations, and I think that part, especially, I'm going to say once again, that after the adoption of this Act, more traders won't be able to advertise big discounts on public-defying exhibitions because they put one product on that discount, and everything else is less, just to get you inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124586	Thank you. There's a replica on your exhibit. Here's a colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124587	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Curaj, I will ask you one question, among other things, I propose to the Amendments to prescribe that the State has a duty after the power of collective judicial judgment, by law to prescribe systematic consumer compensation. So, when the collective process is complete, the state would have the obligation by law to prescribe how to damage consumers. This is in line with a new EU directive that is yet to come, where it will already be established that collectively the process must establish a way of compensation, so I wonder if you will support this amendment, because it is firstly in line with EU law, because it is aimed at making 150,000 people deprived because we can't expect them all to go to court, I don't believe that more than 20% will sue them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124588	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124589	Thank you. So it would be much simpler for us to have the Anglosaxon right to have a presidential right in which, on the basis of one verdict, we can practically make all the other judgments and say that once it's decided, it's over and it's over. Unfortunately, we don't have such a system. What you're saying, I'm going to study, though, I agree, I'm as personal as I had a loan in Swiss and I closed it and at the end of the day when I closed it I paid for everything I raised and at least 50-60% more, and I should have maybe 20, uh, I'm interested in not having to go into these proceedings. However, if this verdict and the revision happens, if confirmed, I think that banks will be forced in their interest to offer settlements only to avoid paying the costs. Now, if that's not the case, if they don't think they're going to win the dispute, then there's no such thing as this law, but I believe that if one slow is won, then it'll probably be true for the others, but we unfortunately don't have such a system of justice in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124590	Excuse me, thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Irena Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124591	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I have already said in the replica that I see this as a positive step, but we expect the whole package that goes on this topic and we know that the unfair business of traders towards us, unfortunately, is not an exception, but is often a practice. For example, the situation happens, part of the situation falls within the HACOM sphere, I am aware of it, but now is the opportunity to talk about it, and part of the situation, of course, belongs to this area that we're talking about right now. Here, for example. particular situation, you check out the telephony service, break up the contract and return the equipment, and what happens? You get a bill for the month for which you had your equipment back and broke the contract. And you come clean, you wait for 10 people on the counter, you come to your turn and you say that I could get an account for a month that I didn't have the equipment for, which is why I used your service when I didn't have the equipment, how could that mistake ever happen? And then the person on the counter apologizes and tells me we don't know how that mistake happened, but your contract wasn't broken. I say here, if I'm that party in this case, I'd say it's not broken when there's, there's the date when I broke the contract, then it's going into the system, it's being checked, etc. However, it turns out that the contract is not broken. Like, I could be that party, you could be you tomorrow, it could be any one of our citizens. And as it may come to the charge of something that hasn't been used, it's my question, it's not my question to you, but to all of us and unfortunately, it's not an isolated case, it's becoming a mass case. And now I'm wondering how to deal with it and the solution is, therefore, in certain mechanisms that HAKOM needs to take, and honestly speaking, I'm not quite happy with all those mechanisms that HAKOM is now taking, and I hope that it will go towards improving this surveillance and that these things just don't happen because it's really not acceptable for anyone to pay for something that he didn't use, and here we are as consumers really in an invisible situation. The applicable law also prescribes certain provisions, which traders do not always follow in practice, one of the ones I just said, as regards HACOM, but we also have a problem with advertising lenses. Advertisers in a few cases point out a product that, if we read that tiny tag down there, will be with a star above, and it is in the note below, says until the stock expires or a limited number, that is, a limited amount and, okay, we are wondering which is the limited amount. If, for example, there comes ad fliers 10000, for the amount of product specifically which 50 pieces have been reduced, then I beg you as customers, in fact, to be deceived, is that the same unfair commercial practice, in my personal opinion, that is. You have well pointed out here the most important problems that we have apostrophed through a public debate that your ministry has resolutely recognized and we will remove them by this law. It remains part of the problem that will be settled in the next period. What is still to be pointed out, we know that Member States are connected to a specific application and that is so-called. The network for consumer cooperation and protection, I always point out the advantages of such networks and the participation of Croatia both in that network and in the rapex and other associations and networks at EU and Member State level, and if you have doubts about fraud and, say, you bought goods via the Internet or goods or devices or something else, you know that the ministry is an address you can contact, or the market inspection sector, and believe that very little of our citizens actually know. You wouldn't believe how little our citizens know, that there's this address they can contact, and you know by your statistics how few citizens actually know that information, in my opinion, too little. Why am I saying that? Because a lot of our citizens and I've said that before, they'd rather call television or the media and then report a case like that, rather than address the appropriate address, which is the address of the resolution ministry. Why? Well, on the one hand, the reason may be some institutions' mistrust, which doesn't have to be a specific case here, and on the other hand, they want to warn other citizens through the media about the experience they have and in some way prevent it from happening to someone else. There are some shows on TV that deal with it, and then they contribute to the popularity of these cases. Menus are very glad about that rapeks and I follow it regularly and I am glad that Croatia is actively involved in this exchange of information between countries and I hope that we will continue to participate in this topic. Croatian practice shows that a large part of consumer rights violations actually relate to those provisions, so-called The action sale of the downsizing of sales, which is precisely what the minister in his speech explained by this law, apostrophe as problematic and according to some inscriptions actually turns out to have a downsizing all year long, and they don't really have when we should talk about real downsizing. And this is a kind of consumer deception, and it should be prevented and when it will be arranged, and it will be arranged, then it will benefit not only customers, but it will be used and traded, because in this way their business will be more transparent and simpler, and I believe that they will also improve their business, since nobody likes to be deceived as a consumer. And the practice of Croatia also shows that it is necessary to protect consumers who do not want to receive phone calls, modelled by some neighbouring countries and some EU member states, who have developed certain mechanisms and I think that will eventually happen. What is more important to say, the failure to hand over the written obligation of the right to terminate the contract, which is concluded on the Internet or telephone, the lack of money returns, can sometimes result in a complication of advertising on electricity or heat costs, which rarely do not end in the way it should be in line with the advertising itself. Advertising on the Internet and mobile services that often have no purpose other than to serve as some kind of paper and we know what the percentage of successful solving of these advertisings is. This objection has nothing to do with the ministry right now but it goes exclusively to those companies that deal with this area and that is why I am very glad that there is a strengthening of the control system and I think it is almost a crucial mechanism. The labelling of products is also particularly cosmetic, food and children's and controls, which are all imported into Croatia and how. That's why I see this law as a positive step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124592	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Marin Škibola, please welcome colleague Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124593	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here, today we have a subject of the Consumer Protection Act. On that subject, I was with you at the Ministry of Economy. You know, we discussed Article 17 of the Consumer Protection Act and some other topics, which I will now mention in this individual debate. That's the one. The 17th one we talked about is not part of this amendment and the addition of the law, so we sought a way, so that we could still supplement it and put it on. Now the question is I think that the government can react with some amendment, right now in this process, I'm not sure. But I will certainly still consult on that, if that is not possible legally, then certainly in the next changes and additions to what we have discussed, to ban corporations from putting that advertising material on locks, i.e. to locks from private doors, why, because he thinks that in such a way they enter the private space of citizens and that defacto threatens their safety because then thieves and those who intend to rob someone such as this can control whether or not this advertising material is being removed from the lock, or in case someone doesn't have a long home he notices that this advertising material has not been removed from the doorknob, and that is some, this may be some sign of him breaking into that apartment. So for the sake of that safety of the citizens, it's the only reason I'd want to put it in here. I'm glad you found an understanding of it, I'd like it if you could do it now through these amendments to the addition of the law if at all possible for the government to put it in, if not certainly in the next one. I would like to welcome some new changes to this Consumer Protection Act, and I must say that I will support it. And anyway, I think about the changes to the teleoperators, and to this day, these contracts with teleoperators were made on the phone, and I think it was very bad there was a lot of citizen fraud, where some things that they didn't actually ask for were made, they didn't agree, and since there's no written trace they can't, they can't prove this in the offices that they didn't actually agree to. There was also a situation where older people in this context would be fooled by the older person who may be in a health problem, she must come to the office, break up that contract and may not be able to come because of health problems and it happened that they were not allowed to go at all to her son, grandson or someone close to her, but they demanded that she come personally, and a man could not come because he had health problems. Another problem that we discussed at that meeting was the same eye, it was about these reports meaning wrong accounts. We see according to HACOM's latest report that there are a lot of broken accounts and then the question is, how is it possible that teleopers issue so many of these broken accounts, it's seen by statistics and they eventually admit that, we've issued that incorrect account we're going to change it and that's it, but they're citizens, for example. They've ignored it, they're being deceived. And the problem is that this needs to be dealt with systematically, it can't happen that there are so many broken, broken accounts in the teleoper. I will now read some of the data from 2017, about 93,000 complaints about first-degree account amounts, 48.000 were positively accepted, in part 22,000 positive and 23,000 negatively, so of these 93,000 objections, 70,000 complaints were positively accepted. So that so many of these complaints really stand there means that, there's no problem in people who have appeared and who have complained, but really teleopers who through there, are betraying these broken accounts want to suck up some bigger, bigger profit. It was said the same about this propaganda of corporations means where they through different actions this offer they say here we have an action offer next week on Thursday, it will be this and this product on a discount and then people get used to, come into trade and there is no such product either, or there is only one product and so on and people come looking for this product, not flying on that product, but when they come to the store then they buy something else and these are the manipulations that they serve. I think that there should be some mechanisms to prevent it because you can't say we have a discount on a product and then, and then, in fact, that product has only one option. The other thing is the same slowness and trombone of institutions in the protection of consumers in the financial services segment, Mr. Aleksic spoke of the problem of the Swiss franc, I really believe that this should be resolved systematically that it should adopt a certain legal arrangement that will solve the collectively this story, not that consumers individually have to go into lawsuits with banks, which are often risky, are also at risk of losing in these lawsuits because lawyers in Croatia are the same as they are, and we all know that the banks have negotiated interest rates in one anti-law way and have changed those interest rates willingly which were not recorded in the contractual provision. Here's about a part of some of the things I wanted to mention in this debate, in any case, I'm going to support this law and as I said at the beginning, I like this provision of di teleoperators will no longer be able to negotiate and make these contracts by telephone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124594	At your presentation, I have one replica, colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I liked your presentation by my colleague Schibol that you were very specific, specifically, when it comes to teleopers. Well, my people, they behave so arrogantly that man cannot come to himself. I've personally been out of HT for nine days. I didn't want to do anything at all, you can't come talk to someone, you hear from the answering machine, so what are we protected from? When it comes to consumer protection, they are protected, we are completely unprotected. This is information that over 90,000 complaints have appeared on the accounts. Well, it's not an accident, it's a systemic phenomenon. I suggest dragon sentences in that case. And another thing. Here, Minister of Economy, allow the citizen to talk to someone from that invisible corporation who's robbing us. They became in that proportion centers that can't be a citizen [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's feeling miserable, here. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124596	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124597	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović, for this personal experience, indeed the Dracon punishments would be necessary because it is not a case, it is evident that it is a deliberate robbery of Croatian citizens, systematic robbery of Croatian citizens, they later justify it as though we were wrong, there are a lot of complaints about the accounts, but these statistics show that these are not random mistakes, but that it is about intentional mistakes in order to rob citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124598	Thank you. It is now up to counterpart Goran Aleksic, and after fellow Alexic, we will have a representative club position, please welcome colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124599	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the distinguished ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will now present the amendments that I propose to be included in the amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, and I will explain why these amendments are important and why they can be accepted. Well, first of all, I'm going to present this amendment that I think is most important, which concerns collective court proceedings, which concerns something that is not regulated by laws that are currently in force, and once, by a very simple provision, it would be for us right here in HS to sort things out for consumers in a way that makes it easier for them. So here's what that item, chapter 4, reads. In 106, a new paragraph 4 which is now lacking and concerns consumer rights following a established collective court ruling. Thus, if a decision taken by the court to protect the collective interests of consumers establishes an act of breach of consumer protection rules and, on the basis of such a judgment, it is possible in the procedures in which the consumer personally implements individual damages to damaged consumers, HS will pass a law on the extrajudicial systematic compensation of all consumers covered by a decision of the court to protect the collective interests of consumers and the compensation of the consumer under the law shall be carried out by the convicted trader. The amendment complies with EU law. Why is the amendment in accordance with EU law? EU law speaks very simply of unfair contractual provisions. What does EU law say when it is found in a collective court dispute that contractual provisions are unfair? First of all, EU law says that these unfair contractual provisions have been unfair since the beginning, so the rule of dishonesty is that this works ex tung from the beginning. The second important rule of law of the EU is that, on the basis of a collective judgment, there is a subjective right of any damage to the compensation of damages. Therefore, any damageor on the basis of a collective judgment has the right to a private court procedure to receive compensation for damages. And the third rule of EU law is that this damage compensation must be complete. So that restitution must be complete. There's no statute of limitations. Indeed, the EU's law so requires is in the ruling of the EU Court of Justice in the related, merged cases C-154/15, 307/15 and 308/15. It is a Spanish dispute where the Spanish court has asked the EU court to consider whether what banks owe should be the same, whether what banks owe to consumers should be returned from the day of the verdict or the full amount. And the EU court said everything must be returned. Therefore, only when a contractual provision is found to be unfair and therefore harmful is the right to obtain it, and it is only then that it becomes the right to obtain it that something cannot be obsolete. Accordingly, the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia of March last year when the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia also confirmed this by its own audit. And one of the next EU directives is just going in this direction that there is no statute of limitations if collective court proceedings are initiated. But what I want to achieve by this provision is to allow the extrajudicial compensation of the debtors based on these three rules that I have said, so that everyone who is damaged has the right to do so, to have the right to compensation and to have the right to do so without any statute of limitations. Of course, such a legal, such a legal solution would not be binding on the consumer but would be binding on the trader. The trader who damaged the consumer would have to damage that consumer on the basis of certain rules established in the court and, therefore, probably in the whole process, it would need the assistance of the Supreme Court where the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Court should participate jointly in the preparation of such a legal solution where it would then be determined what should be returned. My colleague Curaj said we don't have a presidential right, but this isn't about any presidential law, all the verdicts I have in possession of over 50 powerful verdicts, all the verdicts are equal. It's about interest, it's still not judgmental currency, all judgments are equal. Banks must pay back the difference between what they have charged to the debtor and what should have been charged according to the initial payment plan and at each amount the bank must pay a tight interest from the very beginning when they started to apply the unfair contractual provision. So all judgments are identical, they're not different. Therefore, since there are identical judgments, it is not a problem to establish even a methodology. The second thing I suggest, yes, I was going to say is that what I propose is in the spirit of the directive that is coming because the directive that is coming is just predicting that the collective judicial process should also determine the way of compensation. So what I propose in spirit is something that the EU Directive will prescribe for the trial itself. Therefore, there is no obstacle in prescribing something that may not yet be in force in the EU, but it will be. The second thing I'm proposing is also about the collective court dispute in the Franak case, but of course what I'm proposing, it's not about the Franak case, it's about these things in general. Namely, what happens now that it has been legally established that banks have negotiated unfair contractual provisions? It happens that the people who paid off the loans don't have all the paperwork necessary for the court's proceedings and when they ask the bank for that documentation, the bank says you paid off your loan and we don't have to deliver that documentation to you. And in some ways, the banks are right, although I think they're wrong, because nowhere in the law requires banks to deliver the documents to people who paid off the loans. They have to do it while the credit is active while it's being paid off, but after it's paid off, they don't have to do it. I therefore propose to amend the following: The Court’s decision to protect the collective interests which determines the act of the consumer protection regulation referred to in Article 1 of this Article obliges the trader, against whom the judgment has been taken, to provide, at the request of the consumer, the requested contractual documentation, including a review of the Treaty and the Annex to the Treaty, if free of charge, and in electronic form within 14 days of the consumer’s request, if the consumer indicates that the documentation is required for the initiation of the proceedings on the basis of a court’s decision to protect collective interests which determines the violation of the consumer’s law of Article 1(1) of this Article. Therefore, banks do not want to submit that documentation, they are called upon to say that it is not prescribed by law anywhere. If we had prescribed by law that traders are generally, and thus banks, obliged to deliver to the consumer who is damaged, the documentation, so that he could initiate his private court proceedings, then banks would have to deliver it. What's even more interesting is that banks charge those debtors who have the right to file, the mass of that documentation, they charge even 37,00 kn per page. 37,00 kuna per page, can you imagine that? One simple procedure where she pulls some data from the computer, she collects 37,00 kn per page. That's really scary. Therefore, this proposal would also prevent charging and would require banks to provide documentation. Finally, the last thing I propose is to delete the proposal, which reads: A person authorised to represent the Association, a member of the body of the Association or any other member of the Association, must not use the activities of the Association to achieve private, business or other interest. Why do I suggest you delete it? Because it's part of the Penal Code. In the Consumer Protection Act, you propose a provision that is abstract, and in the Penal Code, all of this is specifically prescribed and sanctions are prescribed. It's especially interesting what the second interest says. What's that other interest? It will allow here at HS to politically show up at some people who are members of the Association, like me, who protects the rights of these associations and then say, "Here it is, breaking that legal provision." So I suggest you delete it, it's unconstitutional, and if it doesn't get deleted, I'll definitely ask for a constitutionality assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124600	Thank you. Hey, buddy, we have a line on your exhibit. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, you have made several concrete observations and suggestions and we have both fought and fought against the currency clause, one nightmare with which citizens meet. I suggested one amendment to the article. In 138, it states that traders, i.e. legal persons, will be punished from 10 to 100,000,00 kn, and 93 reasons why they will be punished are listed. I have proposed here that they will be punished if the Treaty lists the price of products or services in EUR or other foreign currency or if the price is expressed in foreign currency, it is located on shelves or products already placed on the market. You see, this is still a sovereign, monetary sovereign country, another thing that others don't want. It should be possible for our currency to be the only means of payment, not that there is parallelism and everyone who amounts to prices in EUR That they may be punished [[Intruder: Thank you]] Because we're not in the Eurozone, we haven't accepted yet. [[Intruder: Thank you]] EUR-e... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124602	Thank you. Prior to the follow-up of the individual debate, i.e. Before the debate, my colleague... We still have a reply to the replica, then we have a club stand, please. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124603	Thank you. Yes, my colleague Lovrinović, I agree with you, all prices in the Republic must be expressed in kunas, I also agree with you that there should be no credit with the currency clause at all. But unfortunately, the currency clause is constitutional, which cannot be achieved much. So, what you said was not to be expressed in EUR, I agree. However, the Mandatory Relations Act is allowed to contract a currency clause in loans and in something else, in any legal transactions. So there's not much we can do about it. However, consumer protection is very strong in that part, and precisely because banks did not warn us about the risks arising from the specific currency clause Swiss franc, that is why banks are actually guilty and that is why banks will have to return the overpaid rate. Not because of the currency clause itself, but because of the way it's arranged, and it's agreed against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124604	Thank you, colleagues. We continue with the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing consumer protection laws, second reading, PZ No. 408, individual debate, next is counterpart Nenad Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124606	Thank you, dear Vice President. When it comes to one bill, it is not enough to talk about just what the law says, but to point out what the law should be and what is not in the law. So I would like to say a few words about protecting citizens as voters, as consumers of a political offer. There is, in particular, a political market. This is the market, as a rule, for every 4 years, and in the inter-election period, political goods. Political parties and individuals present their programmes, their promises, are their political positions, and voters are buying. And they pay. They pay with votes and pay as taxpayers. They're funding that political stuff. That political stuff. And they are often deceived and left without any protection. In the 1990s, voters were promised that the Republic of Switzerland would be in 10 years, not Switzerland, but twice robbed, poored, so that citizens live far worse than they lived until the 1990s. Is there any responsibility for this in terms of protecting consumers of political programmes? There isn't. Let's remember Sanader's security card. He was guaranteeing something with that warranty card. It's like when a telephony operator guarantees you they'll give you a signal. And now that the calf operator doesn't meet his obligation, when he doesn't give you a signal, then he gets attacked by this law and he sanctions it. But when Sanader doesn't meet his guarantee card, he doesn't answer for it, though, for other things to be held accountable for, but not for this position between politicians and consumers of that policy, the voters. A fellow Petrov brings confirmation from the public notary that he will not take with either side, and then deceives the consumers who believed him and twice takes the voice to the HDZ tent. And he backs that HDZ until they kick him out, and now he's the biggest opponent. That kind of scam is just unheard of and there's no such scam on the market that's as bold as the scams I'm talking about. Change party options, you've been selected on one program, then you start representing another. So what is it? It's a hoax of those who gave you trust, a voice, and they're paying money into the budget from which you get paid. Do voters have the right to protection? I think they do. Here, they chose the Parliament, they chose this composition, so they have the right to expect a high-quality Parliament, not for example. yesterday's circus. If they wanted to watch the circus, so they'd buy circus tickets, they'd go to the circus, but they didn't, pay taxes neatly to watch a serious parliament where they're discussing their interest, where their problems are solved, but by cheating there's a common fraud, as citizens, as voters, they don't get it. How far does this circus go? This is where different items are brought to the Assembly, and they stand out, and there is bread and milk, and salad, and a rubber octopus, and then the shoes the other day, and the underwear, yesterday the planes, all of this is evidence of impotence, total impotence, that political struggle is being fought in Parliament by political means, which is speech, speech. Parliamentarians have been chosen to speak, to make arguments and to convince each other, to convince each other and the public of the arguments. But when someone doesn't have the gift of speech, when someone doesn't have that power of persuasion, and then starts with a circus, it starts with a play that has one single goal, attracts the public's attention, comes to the Dnevnik, not to fight for the quality of life of those who chose you. Do these voters have the right to protection? Well, I think they do. Do they have to watch the ministers throw things around the Parliament? Do they have to watch the prime minister run into an agent who's the only one who's saved him from a physical stroke? All right, we need to protect the citizens from the telegraph operator. I agree, if they're cheating. But politics is also goods like shoes, like ties, like hats or like military planes. Well, they didn't get the citizens of the American hunters, but they got the bishop of the hunter, but they didn't want the bishop of the hunter, they wanted protection. And if citizens pay their taxes under the Vatican Treaties to buy military weapons and go hunting or to engage in their pastoral activities. If they don't deal with what citizens pay for, then they cheat on those citizens, so somehow they need to be protected. One model has been spent and I think it needs to be set up by abscedes, needs other and different relationships, relationships in society. She needs a new responsibility. It is not enough just every four years to choose a structure that will behave more or less the same as the old, with no responsibility and no real protection of citizens. It is therefore necessary to protect the citizens, especially those who are constantly wronged, who are constantly choosing their cheaters. That's why I think the dimension I was talking about should be introduced into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124607	Thank you very much. Thank you for talking about so many topics, but there's a Mr. Curry to replicate, so you'll have some more opportunities to show, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124608	I thank the chairman. A fellow Stazic may have used a replacement in the chair, so let's put it aside. And if you mention the protection of telecommunications operators, really, it's today's topic, but you mentioned a lot of other things and I think the same thing, you're going to let me just refer that I really should, I can agree with you there, protect citizens from primitives, from stupidity, from inadequacy and from everything that has turned into this House. And that's where I can agree, whether the citizens, whether the consumers, if we're going to try to do something now, make a thin link, but that the dignity of this House, this honorable House, has been disrupted, it's been clear a long time ago. And with this resorting only to how to court and best pass in the media and as much as possible and move away from content. Well, that's what I think it is. [[Intruder: Thank you]] For all of us, it's too bad. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124609	Track, answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124610	Well, it's not a weak link because if a shoe salesman cheats on a customer, if he declares something that's incorrect, if he claims it's a leather shoe, it's not leather, it's made of skin, then a consumer like that has the right to protect against such a seller. But when Plenkovic says I guarantee you credibility, and nothing in that policy is credible, there is not one credible thing, then it is, I think, far greater harm and far greater sin, than someone to deceive by selling him false shoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124611	Thank you very much. I am now taking the opportunity to welcome and welcome all students and students of Faust Vranjčić Engineering School from Zagreb together. Thank you for being with us, to welcome them with applause, how many of us are there... It would be bigger if there were more of us. [[Applause]] Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. And finally, on behalf of the club of representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124612	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will now round up what I was talking about. I have proposed several amendments that are acceptable, absolutely, in line with EU law, are in line with EU court rulings, and they are in line with the recent collective ruling in the Franak case, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so there is no reason why these amendments should not be accepted. So I proposed to the first Amendment that it should be possible to enter into collective protection and the legal provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations concerning binding contractual provisions. At this point, it is not prescribed that collective action can be brought on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations which speak of binding contractual provisions, this is certainly necessary. I must say that all consumers, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are, therefore, civil law, the Law on Mandatory Relations is the strongest civil code and all contractual provisions binding under this Law should be part of collective protection if someone requires collective protection. And I repeat, such a case has already occurred, precisely the provisions on the variable interest rate that are amended by the decision of the bank which is negotiated as indeterminate, fall under those binding contractual provisions which have been violated and which are not agreed under the Mandatory Relations Act. The second thing I suggest is the current situation in the Franak case, but of course, the provision I propose would refer to all traders. It's about the fact that banks don't want to give documentation to people who paid the loans, they want to sue the bank on the basis of a collective verdict because it's entitled to this because collective judgment is a powerful one, but they don't have all the documentation and then they don't have all the documents because they paid, people don't give credit, they don't give that documentation, and they justify that there's no legal obligation. Well, here's what I'm proposing is a legal obligation to prescribe to the banks that they have to give documentation to people who want to sue the bank on the basis of a collective verdict and for free of charge. Banks now charge fat to people who, according to them, have the right to file, charge them fatly for that paperwork. People cost this documentation and 300,00 kn-400,00 kn all together, just because one page e.g. Some banks charge $37.00 a.m. Some banks are fair, so they give it away for free, but some people charge because they can, because they're not banned. If we had prescribed that those documents must be delivered at the consumer's request, and this would be no longer the case on the basis of a powerful collective court ruling for the initiation of a court dispute. The following amendment, which I propose, concerns the systematic compensation of consumers, I said the EU law states that if the collectively established unfairness of the contract provision is established, that three rules must be applied first, that this applies from the beginning, the contractual provision unfair from the beginning, secondly, that the subjective right of each consumer covered by a compensation ruling and thirdly, that there is no limitation of that compensation and that complete restitution must be implemented. The citizens waited seven years for the verdict in the Franak case, and now seven more years will go by the courts, get hooked up and demand their money. On the other hand, we can do it with a feather move. All those claims are on the same principle. Simply, what is paid, from what is paid, is taken away from what should be paid, the difference belongs to the consumer. Math is very simple, very simple to prescribe. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in agreement with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may prescribe the necessary methodology because the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has all these cases in its archives, it knows exactly how to do so. This provision would remain in line with the EU Directive that is yet to come, which speaks of future collective judgments also containing a provision on the method of compensation. And finally, the last thing I suggest is that the proposal concerning members of the Association should be removed from the law. First of all, it is not based on any EU directive, secondly, it is the opposite of the Constitution, thirdly, that provision is contained in the Penal Code with associated sanctions. Therefore, it is completely unnecessary and therefore should be thrown out of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124613	Thank you, too. And now, in conclusion, the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Darko Horvat will take the floor, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124614	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear Parliamentarians, Parliamentarians, well, at the end of all these words taken today, i.e. very correct and constructive debates, I thank you for several good proposals and in the analysis of the proposed amendments, given that we have a few days to do so, we will see which of them are acceptable to the Government and which will become an integral part of the legislative framework. What makes me particularly happy, therefore, by taking the word, are some, even though they have made a step beyond the context of this Law, but very clearly apostropheed the first need, and then well accepted changes and complemented the existing legislative framework and recognized a step towards the environment within which consumers in the Republic of Croatia operate and work at the moment. As I have pointed out firstly, the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on representative claims for the protection of the collective interests of consumers in the process of production will repeal Directive No. 22 of 2009, which provides for the possibility that a claim for the protection of the collective interest of consumers is required, except for the establishment of injury by the trader, and consumer compensation in relation to the damage caused by the same injury. By proposal of the Directive, the Directive will simplify and speed up the compensation procedure in cases of infringement of the rights of a large number of consumers in relation to existing legal legislation, thus raising the level of protection of the rights of all EU consumers, as well as of the consumers of the Republic of Croatia. In the new European Law... The package also provides for the introduction of dual product quality and as one of the forms of unfair business practices, which we strongly support and evaluate extremely important for our country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, in today's world of accelerated digitalisation and the growth of Internet trade, we also support the determination of the main parameters that determine the order of offers on the Internet market when searching products and ensuring the safety of our citizens in achieving their consumer rights in the line of trade. I also express my satisfaction that some parliamentary representatives have also given support to the new funding model of the Associations, which is also the Ministry of Economy, Labour, Entrepreneurship and other stakeholders of this process, wants to be a partner in the education and information of the public and consumers themselves on their rights and notes, and I also use the opportunity to invite more than 20 citizens who participate in this process to submit project applications and participation in the competition opened on 21 December 2018 and will be open until 21 January 2019. In this competition, we have provided a million and 400 thousand kuna from the state budget with a desire and intent to include at least 20 such associations in the sensitisation of the consumer public and for this age or participation in the competition of 20 to 70.000,00 kn. Also, one of the polemics we ran, and she immediately gave the result. So, by spotting the reaction, we decided to transform the consumer phone 072 414 414 which today every consumer uses, pays a fee of 23 June or kuna and 45, very soon, as soon as possible, into a free service in that context of service 0800 is aware of the facts and we will see already during tomorrow whether such a possibility exists, that all these conversations are recorded to us, so that this free correspondence is not abuse, but that we have a clear verifier of all those complaints that consumers are in identifying their problems, submitted to the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, and then I am sure that I get a very spotless response and reaction. I thank you once again for the constructive debate and ask you for a little time to analyse all these amendments, and then in the voting process we will make clear to the Croatian public that we agree with, which we will refuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124615	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124616	As announced yesterday, we will now move to a declaration of amendments. We have an amendment to the three laws. First Declaration on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, Second Reading, P.Z.E. 408. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Goran Aleksic, the MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists, the HNS Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats, the Independent Representatives' Club and MP Ivan Lovrinovic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, it will be State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Mr Zdenko Lucic. First, the first amendment of the Club of Independent Representatives to Article 10, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124617	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, honourable MPs, I thank you for your words. The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that the provision of Article 66 of the Consumer Protection Act applies to all types of long-distance service contracts and not only to contracts in the field of electronic communications. The intensity of this article is that by delivering consent, either on paper or otherwise, e.g. by e-mail, the consumer declares the will to conclude the contract in question, which unequivocally determines the moment of conclusion of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124618	On behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Sagar, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124619	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, the intensity of this amendment was to clarify, to make it quite clear what it means when the consumer will confirm consent to the contract offered to him by telephone. New technologies are mentioned here. It is not clear to me until the end, and I have explained this in the debate, and this amendment has been removed, which is the moment in some correspondence for the consumer to accept the contract that was offered to him. This law would prevent that from happening. Believe me, if you look at the structure of FINA blocked citizens, then you'll see how much this amendment makes sense. Nothing will change because we are talking about teleoperators and you are talking about others, mostly those frontal teleoperators, they will continue with the practice of offering a telephone contract and a specific correspondence with the consumer interpreting it as agreeing to a contract. After all, you have in law, one article states that it is aggressive advertising where aggressive advertising is said to be the one where a child can persuade an adult, an adult to make a certain contract based on that kind of ad, and in these cases we have it in action. I'll tell you what's picturesque. A little bit through one joke, asked one grandson's grandmother what you're going to be, he says I'm studying medicine, oh well, you're going to treat your grandmother, ask another grandson, and you, I'm studying the building, fine sweetness of mine, you're going to make your grandmother a house so she can have a nice old age and ask the third one, and Grandma says philosophy and what Grandma does. Trust me, many grandmothers of young grandmothers and older grandmothers will not be protected by this law. This is not demagogy, it's not even populism, look, I say a little bit again the structure of the blocked citizens in FINA, so it'll all be clearer to you, I'm sorry you didn't accept this amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124620	Thank you. The next amendment is the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the second amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124621	The amendment is not accepted. It should be pointed out that the provision of Article 10 amending Article 66 of the Consumer Protection Act applies to all types of contracts in remote services and not only to contracts in the field of electronic communications. Furthermore, the amended Article 66, apart from EU legislation in the area of consumer protection, is in line with the recently adopted European Code on Electronic Communications, which, among other things, regulates the conclusion of all contracts between operators and users via telephone in EU Member States. The law in question contains a provision of a strict meaning as proposed by the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, in order to comply with the rules and avoid the re-harmonisation of national and European legislation. The provisions of the Code will be adopted by the end of 2020 at the latest in the national legislation of the Member States. Since the provision of the proposed amendment does not comply with EU law in the field of electronic communications or does not comply with the law, it is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has conducted the necessary dialogue with the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities related to the problem in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124622	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Honorable Representative Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124623	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I absolutely understand the meaning of changing the law and it's good. That's what I said in my explanation, so whenever you order something telephone, often phone, it's good to have someone deliver it exactly what you're committed to, and not to figure it out later when it's over, when the contract is already in effect, when you're paying your monthly bills. What went on, the intensity of this amendment is to allow such a way as so far within 30 days. Why? Maximum. So just when someone wants a service today or tomorrow or a tariff on a cell phone, a text message to make it possible for consumers to do so. I understand your argument, too, I hope why this amendment went in any direction, to allow greater freedom to consumers but also to protect and sellers who would otherwise not otherwise do so if they had no basis to charge for that service that would take up to 30 days or until the day of the contract when all the assumptions were fulfilled. To me, the explanation I can accept, I ask you to try to regulate it to the rules, first of all with HAK, because I think it will certainly improve, speed up and facilitate the flexibility and availability of all services, we talk here most often about teleopers, the Internet, television, etc., that we really do not enter these excessive procedures when it is not necessary but to protect consumers, yes. And that's why a big yes and for this change because I think the countless citizens felt it on their skin that he was saying something and finally he got something else entirely, that we weren't talking about maybe the very price of what he was committed to, the speed of the Internet, etc. So we accept your explanation, we withdraw the amendment on behalf of the club, but please incorporate it into the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124624	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. The third amendment is Agent Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124625	The amendment is not accepted. The relevant procedure may only be initiated for the infringement of the Union acts referred to in Annex 1. Directives on court orders which have been transposed by the Consumer Protection Act and other rules which are tax-based in Article 106(1) of the applicable Consumer Protection Act. As regards the Law on Mandatory Relations, it is only possible to initiate a procedure to protect the collective interests of the consumer in relation to liability for material shortages of things and a guarantee for the emptying of the goods sold but not for the binding content of the contractual provisions, since the same is not provided for by the Court Orders Directive. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, when a contract is concluded between traders and consumers, both parties receive a number of signed copies of the acts in question. Therefore, it is considered not necessary to prescribe an additional obligation on the trader to provide the consumer with contractual documentation at his request if the consumer intends to launch a decision of the court taken in a procedure for the protection of collective interests which determines the act of breach of consumer protection rules. The proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on representative claims for the protection of the collective interest of consumers in the process of production also provides for the possibility of a claim for the protection of consumer collective interests except for the establishment of injuries by traders and the compensation of consumers in relation to damage caused by injury. Following the adoption of the Directive on representative claims for the protection of the collective interests of consumers, which will include provisions in relation to consumer compensation, the Republic of Croatia will transpose it into its national legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124626	Dear Representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124627	Thank you. So, what you're saying doesn't hold water at all, we have a collective trial under way that hasn't quite finished yet. Last year, in the 6th month, the verdict was passed, where it was found to be an unfair and currency CHF and a variable interest rate. We are waiting for the Supreme Court's decision on whether after the conversion we have the right to compensation, which is why this message is here to the Supreme Court to solve this problem as soon as possible. We're waiting for a decision on bank audits, all of which will probably be settled during the first half of this year. And after that, the debtors still have very little time to file their private lawsuits because in the 6th month, there is an old-fashioned claim for the paid interest. In this spirit, you tell me that the directive will regulate the following collective processes. Well, that's completely irrelevant, we have a living collective process. We have a situation that a large number of debtors may not be able to sue banks at all, that a large number of debtors may not even know that banks should be sued. At 6 months of age, the duty of the Republic of Croatia to force banks to damage Croatian citizens, those 150,000 who raised CHF loans and to repay their overpaid amounts. Is it possible that you're helping corporations and not helping citizens? 125,000 citizens of the bank owe them more than 10 billion kuna. Let's remember in 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia then had the courage to prescribe conversion of CHF credit when there was no judicial support for such a thing at all, and now that we have judicial support for compensation you are unable to prescribe that this is an obligation to prescribe and that banks have to pay people back their money. And the EU directive is just saying that future judgments will be in this spirit and that it will be binding to determine how compensation should be achieved. It is not at all a problem to prescribe it, but you simply do not live in this world, you live in a world of corporations and not Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124628	Are you looking for a vote? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Before we continue to welcome the students and students of the 13th high school from Zagreb who are just coming to us. The 4th amendment is also the representative of Goran Aleksic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124629	The amendment is not accepted, provision of Article 14 amending the provision of Article 128. The consumer protection law is not contrary to Article 43. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as Article 10 of the Treaty on The Association Act. It is indisputable to base it on Article 10. The law on associations, associations as legal persons shall act freely in the development, monitoring, implementation and evaluation of public policies, and the expression of views relating to public policies, while the intensity of this provision is to prevent the abuse of the situation of natural persons associated with the work of the Consumer Protection Association for the achievement of private, business or other interests. Also, since the constitutional provisions clearly give rise to the rights from various branches of freedom of association in view of the beliefs and objectives of association, with restrictions relating to the prohibition of the violent threat to the democratic constitutional order and independence, unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly not contained by the Consumer Protection Act in its provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124630	Dear Representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124631	The provision that you wish to prescribe some kind of restriction on the activities of the members of the association has nothing to do with the EU Directive. So here you are proposing an amendment that is not, which is not based on the EU directive. Because this law you are proposing is proposed to comply with EU directives. And a concrete proposal where you speak about how members of associations should not use the association for any of their own private interests or for any other interest has nothing to do with these directives. But she has something to do with our Penal Code. In our Penal Code, it's all prescribed. And sanctions are also prescribed if someone publicly uses it for private purposes. Because if someone's using a private-interest association, that means they're publicly using it for private purposes. But there's another question here, which is another interest. You put in one legal provision a definition that is completely undefined. What's that other interest? What might be some other interest? Is it perhaps another interest that I, as a member of the association, represent the interests of this association here in the Croatian Parliament, is that perhaps another interest? Are you going to put it on my nose tomorrow that I represent the interests of the Franak Association, which I represent the interests of 150,000 damaged debtors and that I want some changes and additions to the laws that these debtors would deprive themselves of? Is that someone else who would be banned under the Consumer Protection Act? So this provision you are trying to prescribe must not be in the Consumer Protection Act, it is contained in criminal law, it is anti-constitutional and therefore I request a vote on that provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124632	The 5th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124633	The amendment is not accepted. The obligation to pass exams concerns persons who carry out and consult, inform and educate consumers, which are essential components of consumer protection policy. In view of the complexity and multi-cipularity of this policy in order to ensure that information is provided to consumers as high as possible, we consider it necessary to pass the proposed examination. It should be pointed out that the submission of the examinations will be without compensation, and the procedure of assessing the professional competence of persons with regard to the conduct of consulting, informing and training of consumers will be detailed in the rules adopted by the Minister responsible for the economy, entrepreneurship and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124634	Dear Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, we believe that the introduction of a special expert exam, to carry out consulting and informing and educating consumer education with excess and unnecessary, we are also too much of an over-normised society, we believe that this is not necessary and the law does not show who in the competent ministry would conduct those professional educations and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124636	Thank you. The 6th Amendment is the representative of Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124637	The amendment shall not be accepted, in accordance with Article. 2., paragraph 5 of the Regulation on how to highlight the retail price and the price for the unit of product and service measures, the trader may pay a retail price and price for the unit of product and service measures, except in kunas highlighted in other currencies, however, if the price is also pointed out in another currency, the relevant price for the consumer is pointed out in kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124638	Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124639	Thank you, sir... Now, you explain to me, if you're expressing in kunas, and why you need another currency on the product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What country do you live in? Which is why you need a second currency, so come on, I'm an economist, you're a lawyer, a currency clause emphasising such prices, it only makes sense in international transactions, and that makes sense that you use a third currency. Go to Germany, go there except for the euro, stick dollars or Swiss francs. You go to America, you stick to the dollar there, you're aware of what you're doing, but not just you, it's been introduced long ago. An interesting group that has been staring at Croatia since the war, and now its juniors are on the scene, it is working with a system not to develop the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The national currency is kuna and it is an integral part of statehood, it is a feature of this state, it is a sign of sovereignty. But ever since the introduction of May 30, 1994, all the governors and all the governments there have been dumped in the corner, and they have just promoted foreign currency, the German mark, the euro, the Swiss franc, which is why they were created blocked, so the army of people who are under wraps has been created. Are you aware of what you're doing? That's why we came from Change Croatia, we'll fight to change that. The first thing we're going to end is the currency clause. I can't convince you here right now, but it's particularly interesting to me that this one party, which is in power, who calls itself state-of-the-art, and when you say something, is going to fight with you, is seen, in an accident. So they see, the first to destroy, the sovereignty of this state, because they kick the kuna out of the optics, shame on you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124640	Are you looking for a vote? The 7th amendment is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124641	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124642	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 8th amendment is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124643	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124644	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 9th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124645	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124646	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124647	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing consumer law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 408, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Goran Aleksic, MOST's representative club, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, the Independent Representatives' Club and MP Ivan Lovrinovic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. The amendments have been made during today's session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So let's go in turn, the 1st Amendment of the Independent Representatives Club the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2. The HNS representative club is not accepted and withdrawn by the government. Amendment No. 3. The government does not accept representative Goran Aleksic as the promoter. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 4th of the same representative, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Ama No. 6th MP Ivan Lovrinović, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 7 and 8. The Legislative Committee has been adopted as well as Amendment No. Nine. The HDZ Representatives Club is becoming an integral part of the law. Now we'll join the vote. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 107 votes for and 19 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124648	The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, second reading, P.Z. Number 514. The draft act shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Pursuant to that Article of the Rules of Procedure, the laws confirming international contracts in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are laid down as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. If the proposer wants to give an added explanation, with us Minister Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance, is with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124649	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in short lines, the Republic of Croatia is currently applying 63 Treatys on the avoidance of double taxation. In order to promote economic co-operation and deepen relations, the Republic of Croatia and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam signed in Zagreb on 27 July 2018 the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes. The initial basis for negotiations in the conclusion of the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes, as well as in most states, are the own models that each country makes according to its own tax policy, based on the models of the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes and of the property of the OCD, and of the UN. Negotiations for conclusion were held and successfully completed in 3 rounds of negotiations, started in 2005, the last round was during 2015. Following the conclusion of the negotiation procedure, the texts of the Treaty in question were further agreed in the contacts of the competent authorities, after which they were agreed and ready for signature. Signing, a necessary sequence of total activities the Republic of Croatia is taking to increase the degree of mutual economic co-operation. Otherwise, this international Treaty seeks to establish a clear and transparent framework for the business of Croatian and Vietnamese entrepreneurs who have the necessary need to know with certainty what state has the right to tax business revenues and avoid the risks of double taxation. As far as the Treaty itself is concerned, it regulates the way to avoid double income taxation and profit. In the opening part, the definitions referred to in the other provisions of the Treaty are contained. One of the most important provisions is the definition of residents, which determines the tax status of natural and legal persons, one of the two Contracting States, and avoids double taxation of Croatian residents, but also prevents the avoidance of income tax. The contract will make it easier to tax all types of income, as well as to improve the conditions for increasing mutual exchange of goods and services, as well as to increase the level of economic and overall economic activity of both countries, in such ways as to enable Croatian construction and similar societies not to pay profit tax in Vietnam if the works last less than 6 months. It is possible for Croatian companies providing services, including consulting services, not to pay profit tax in Vietnam if services are provided less than 6 months. It is also possible for Croatian airlines and shipping companies carrying out the transport of goods between the Republic of Croatia and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to pay taxes on profits obtained exclusively by the Republic of Vietnam. The tax rate per 10% deduction was established when taxing dividends, interest, copyright fees and compensation for technical services. The final provisions of the Treaty stipulate that Croatian society in Vietnam will have the same status and conveniences as that state's societies. The process of mutual agreement ceases the possibility of any problem being created or threatening... states, directly negotiate without the participation of diplomatic authorities, which will help speed up the solution to the problem. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the provisions on the exchange of notifications constitute an effective means of combating tax avoidance. In view of all of this, we believe that the Treaty will be an incentive for foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia and also for the mutual exchange of goods and services will therefore affect the increase of both countries' overall economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124650	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bunjac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124651	Thank you, well-respected Minister Maric, so it's nice to talk here about taxes in Vietnam. However, I would like to point out to you that it might be good to answer the question why your tax reform failed because, as far as we can see from the first analyses, the price of food you announced would be lower, not only not lower, but more than last year by about 4%, so it clearly shows that in fact that some excess money that was created did not come to Croatian families, but ended up in accounts mostly foreign companies, so here, I think it might be more important to answer that question, if not today, then to come to the Assembly first time to analyse these results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124652	Thank you, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I can't give you an answer to that question, totally off topic. Okay, if you want to answer, answer, but it's totally off topic, I didn't interrupt you, I gave you the right to say it, but it's not a topic right now, it's not a current clock, it's not, I'm sorry, we want to discuss it? No, it's not, I allow every conversation, but I don't allow a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's an article [[Intruder Bunjac: But for what reason you do not allow the Minister]] Thank you very much. Let's move on. [[And this is what we're talking about.]] Let's move on. [[We're talking about taxes.]] Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first Mrs. Marijana Balic of the HDZ club. The Rules of Procedure are clear on that, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124653	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So today, we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax. When such proposals are put before us, first of all, we should show satisfaction because these contracts mean easier economic cooperation, both entrepreneurs and natural persons if we are talking about income tax between the Republic of Croatia and the state with which the contract is concluded. In general, the Treaty on the avoidance of Double Taxation is an instrument of the tax policy of each country which contributes to improving international economic co-operation in such a way as to distinguish their provisions from taxation by type of income and relieve taxpayers of double taxation. Thus, these types of contracts aim to prevent avoidance or tax evasion, but their real impact goes beyond that purpose because it helps both promote and encourage strengthening economic cooperation by helping to remove potential barriers to trade and by investing caused by overlapping tax powers. As we heard in the opening statement from the minister himself, the Republic of Croatia is currently applying 63 double taxation contracts, while negotiations are under way to conclude new contracts with a number of states. The basis for the adoption of this law is the international contract concluded by our two ministries on 27th of July 2018 in Zagreb. In particular, this Treaty provides for a number of reliefs in taxing all types of income, as well as improving the conditions for increasing the exchange of goods and services to one another and, of course, increasing the level of overall economic activity of both countries in ways that the minister himself has pointed out in his opening statement. So I wouldn't repeat who it is, which is all possible by this law, but I would just further say that this law is confirmed, or this law confirms the contract in order to make its provisions in the sense of Article. 141 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and, certainly, it shall be well noted, that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the very application of double taxation contracts is very important. As a result, it encourages mobility in the markets of the countries applying them. The economic benefits result in the removal of demotive obstacles resulting from double taxation and the promotion of greater economic co-operation, which in a broader sense means that international agreements on the avoidance of double taxation contribute to the expansion of world trade on the principles of non-discrimination, which ultimately encourages economic growth and development. And of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124654	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Pusic in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I'm actually taking this opportunity to say a few words about this contract. Such contracts are desirable, welcome, actually the first step in opening economic cooperation between Croatia and the country with which such a contract is signed, in this case Vietnam. I think it shows, especially in countries where the situation is not controversial, and we have some significant countries where it should be involved as a government, but in countries where it is not a controversial issue, such as Vietnam, and on the other hand they are economically on the rise, it shows that Croatian diplomacy can make a significant contribution to such contracts and putting such contracts on the agenda, and I think it should be welcomed and it is certainly a positive event. As a result, the GLAS and HSU Club will support this contract, however, I would like to remind the minister and all of us that we have a question of such a contract with the United States, which is, of course, a much bigger issue, which is certainly something that diplomacy is not able to solve but is needed to resolve at the government level. This is a topic that has been on the agenda for a long time, about which many governments have already worked, and I hope that, from the point of view and energy plans discussed and the possibility of coming to the American investment in Croatia, means, in fact, not only economically, but also politically, there are very significant consequences, so I would like to remind here that it would be one subject that cannot be left to diplomacy and that the government should work intensively to reach this agreement. This agreement is certainly welcome and we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124656	Thank you very much. The third on the agenda is Mr. Ivan Pernar in front of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124657	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'd like first of all to say that this contract we made with Vietnam, socialist Vietnam, shows what it's really like to do business with Vietnamese people. But with, I say, the Vietnamese. The Vietnamese are a distant country, we don't have any special contracts with them, they're not some ally I'd dare say, etc., but unlike the Vietnamese, the United States often portrays us as a great friend and great ally, faithful partners, etc. However, is it possible that right now the United States has not concluded such a contract with Croatia and that it is actually a great shame. The more technology companies are registered in America, and all our people who do business with Americans have to pay taxes twice. Isn't that the shame of this government, isn't that proof how bad America treats us, in fact? Any person who consents to a servant’s relationship, who agrees to submit his will to someone else’s will, inevitably humiliates himself, the land to which he belongs, and whom he represents, as well as the people who live therein. America to the Republic of Croatia is not a partner and an ally. The Republic of America is just another colony in their new order of worlds whose goal is to create a universal world in which America sovereignly rules the entire world and destroys and destroys every country that opposes its agenda. If America were really our partner and ally, then America would have abolished visas long ago. But not only did America not lift visas for the Republic of Croatia, but even holders of diplomatic passports must have a visa for America. Isn't that a shame? Isn't it a shame that senior state officials have to fill out forms? That even President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, when she goes to the fence to take a picture next to her, and she has to fill out the visa and that visa form looks like a phone book, how many questions and questions there. They humiliate the most state officials, humiliate us also parliamentary representatives of whom the vast majority has diplomatic passports and humiliates this system, our country. If America were our ally, our friend, our partner, so long ago America would have signed such a treaty with us, but America doesn't want to sign it. A long time ago, America would have abolished visas, not just for diplomats, but for ordinary citizens. The Slovenians don't need visas for America, but in that licking of America, in that blind faith, in America, as someone, I'd say, the prince on the white horse, whom we've been waiting for for a long time, so now he's here, he's here, he'll just leave us with a white horse, and don't have an illusion, so don't sell the Americans to us. Military planes because they love us, because they care about our safety. To the Americans, the goal is to sell their planes to us to make money on us and on spare parts and in every other way possible and all of America's promises are false, and now I'm going to tell you why. When we entered the EU, in NATO, we were promised, which, they told us, you're a small country, you don't have enough money to defend yourself, to have the right army, instead, you join NATO nicely and pay a small membership fee and NATO takes care of your safety. But what do we see today? We see today that NATO is asking us to double funds for our army, we see that the weapons we had, ha, say listen, is not according to NATO standards, you have to take new weapons, of course, their weapons. We've had those manpads of our own, so what the Taliban used in Afghanistan to take down helicopters. So, hand-carved anti, Stinger, some kind of Stinger, we had arrows, whatever, and the Americans asked us to disarm ourselves, to get rid of it. And the Republic of Croatia is disarmed, so of these, by the man carrying anti-aircraft missiles. Why does America mind if the Croatian army has it? [[Intruder: Please nice, please]] Ha, judge for yourself. Look how she disarmed us. RH ordered from Russia anti-aircraft systems S300 and what happened? These systems were never paid to the Russians and these systems, the system passed on to America. So we essentially handed over our weapons to the Americans. I wonder how much the Republic of Croatia has won for the S300 system? The answer is £0.00. All the military technology that America gives us is expensive and unnecessary to us, and the systems that could benefit us, which would serve us something, is disarming us, and everything under the parole, war is peace, evil is good, lie is new truth, less is more, worse is better, etc. The conclusion of the Treaty with Vietnam on the avoidance of double taxation is the highlight of cynicism because it is actually talking about its misery and misery of the servantry or the servant position in which the Republic of Croatia is located. That with one Vietnam with which we share nothing, nor are they part of Western culture, nor are they part of NATO and Euro-Atlantic integration, nor share any monetary system with them, nor are we world-famous, it's a socialist republic, absolutely nothing we share with these people, they're even other races than we are. And we're with these people... Can't, can't it, at least?... and us with people who are on the other side of the world [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have nothing in common with people from the other end of the world, and we can agree with the Americans we kneel to and whose friendship we swear to, whose love we believe in, whose broadly hoped, of these Americans, we get a daily cold shower. [[Answer that, please, let's leave the race alone, at least that.]] And despite all this, we still want to serve America and still want to worship America and still want to crawl in front of America. I remember when the Montenegrin president was in the vicinity of Trump as Trump pushed him away, I remember Colinda pushing herself to be in the picture with Trump. As she pushed herself onto that fence there, and Trump didn't break it off, Trump didn't farm it. Is that the success of our politics? If you want to show that America is our partner and ally, so make a deal with America to avoid double taxation, lift the visa regime, do it, but this government can't do it, and America doesn't need to do it, I'll tell you why. Because regardless of all the humiliation, regardless of the surreal attitude of America against Croatia and you as part of the government, you will continue to serve America and worship America, to your shame, to our harm, and to the great b war in America to benefit. My hope that one day you will remember these words of mine and open your eyes. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124658	And we've come to an end. If the gentleman, the finance minister, Zdravko Maric, doesn't want it. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124659	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance, second reading, P.Z. Number 514. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, and I am voting on that final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 125 votes for the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124660	The next and last item of the agenda today is : - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 556 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would Minister Zdravko Maric like to take the opening statement? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. I will seek to present in short lines the draft law, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Introducing a few words about the very assessment of the situation and some numerical indicators, which I believe will be both for you and for all those watching this debate, also interesting. As you know about the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the 2015 Directive, as well as the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism in the Republic of Croatia is not in the jurisdiction of only one institution, but is a system in which the roles of each shareholder and their mutual interaction and cooperation are legally defined and made up of the bodies of prevention, so bonds themselves, banks and others, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and the Supervisory Authorities of the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, Customs Administration, Financial Inspectorate, then the CNB, the Croatian Agency for the Control of Financial Services and Criminal Persecution, above all, the Police and the State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing through the prevention body has resulted in significant progress in preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, looking at the basic indicators in the work of the Office itself over the past 10 years, there has been a trend in the constant increase in cases of suspected money laundering and terrorist financing. I can specifically say a few figures. Of the 2083 cases, with suspicion of money laundering and terrorist financing left by the Office to competent authorities, the Office has operationally analysed a total of 55 000 560 transactions related to 12 thousand 575 natural and legal persons as a participant in transactions. The average annual value of the transactions analysed, in cases in which the office left the competent authorities for further handling and processing, was 2.73 billion kuna. The office issued 351 orders to banks and other bonds for the temporary blockade of suspected transactions totalling 329.5 million kuna. All of the above points to the quality of the preventive system for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in the Republic of Croatia, which is also recognised by the International Basel Return Centre. According to their report of October 2018, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the The Republic of Croatia has made further progress and has entered the top 10 or the very top of the least risky countries to launder money and finance terrorism at a global level of 129 rated countries. In addition, all relevant international organisations and institutions, the Council of Europe, the United Nations, the EU, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, are evaluable Croatian model and preventive system as modern and largely in line with international standards. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the system to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing in the Republic of Croatia, as well as compliance with international standards, continuously and periodically assesses the licensed international expert and Council of Europe, the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing committee known Manival. He manipulated the Republic of Croatia in addition to 4 evaluations of the effectiveness and coherence of the money laundering and terrorist financing systems, and the situation was assessed positively and satisfactorily. Which confirms the fact that the Republic of Croatia never once found itself on the so-called so-called. a black list of non-operational jurisdictions and in accordance with international standards on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. As for the basic issues that are being regulated by the amendments and amendments to the law, so the aim of harmonisation is now to be brought into line with the 5th. The directive, so from this previous which is 4. you see for yourself that it hasn't been a long time, here we're talking about 5. A directive full of name called the Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. This bill seeks to bring additional, preventive legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with EU rules. The following are the questions that are being defined closer. Under 1st detail, the national risk assessment of money laundering and terrorist financing is arranged. Under the 2nd Assessment of the Party's risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, fully new provisions are introduced regarding the assessment of the party's risk to the geographical area and related to products, services, channels and transactions related to, for example, oil, weapons, precious metals, tobacco products, cultural artifacts and other items of archaeological, historical, cultural or religious significance. Under the proposed law, for the first time, definitions of virtual assets, virtual currencies and custodian wallet services are introduced into domestic legislation, as well as the introduction into the list of legal and natural persons involved in the exchange of virtual and fiduciary currencies and the provision of a custodian wallet service. Under the 4th introduction of public access to the Register of real owners of legal entities for the transparency of data on the real owner of legal entities. In order to further increase transparency on real property and to reduce the possibility of abuse of legal entities to conceal the identity of real owners as potential perpetrators of money laundering, including tax fraud and to prevent terrorist financing, public access to the data contained in the Register of Real Owners is introduced. In this regard, concerning public access to data from the Registers of Real Owners of the Legal Provisions, they are laid down on the basis of 5. A directive stating in the preamble itself that a fair balance should be sought, in particular, between public interest in preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism and fundamental rights of subjects related above all to the protection of personal data and the integrity of respondents themselves. It is also stated that the set of data that should be made available to the public should be limited, clear and comprehensively defined and should be general in order to minimise potential damage to real owners as much as possible. In addition, in the preamble to point 36, Member States should be able to require internet registration in order to identify any person requesting the information of the register as well as the payment of the information access fee. Therefore, according to the proposal for a law for certain specific legal entities, the following data would be available on the real owner, name and last name, country of residence, month and year of birth, citizenship and nature and scope of real ownership. Under the 5th is the introduction of a list of prominent public duties in the Republic of Croatia whose holders are considered politically exposed. The list of outstanding public duties under the current law is in line with the 2015 directive, however, given that now according to this 5. The Directive of 2018 provides for the obligation of each Member State to publish a list of outstanding public duties, this proposal provides for an update of the list of prominent public duties published by the Office on its website. Under the 6th is a more detailed regulation of international co-operation of the Office in accordance with international standards, the 7th detailed regulation of cooperation between the competent supervisory authorities and the final additional alignment with the recommendations of the Committee on the Assessment of Money Laundering Measures and the financing of terrorism by the Council of Europe. In accordance with the recommendations of this proposal, it is prescribed that bonds are required to apply cumulatively to risk factors, they are obliged to collect additional data in relation to domestic legal persons instead of only for legal entities, such as so far, they should not apply the simplification measures of the depth analysis in cases where so-called ‘application’ is applied. the higher risk scenario if, in a third country, the minimum standards are higher than those prescribed by law, the bonds are obliged to ensure that their branches and subsidiaries adopt and implement appropriate measures in accordance with the law of that third country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124662	Thank you, too. Before, you will have, you have 5 replicas, before I give the word Mr. Podolnjak as first for replicas, I have to correct this was just the last point at which, I was misunderstood, the last point represented by the Minister of Finance then we have another 4 points today alone. I apologize. It's my fault. Let's go with the replicas, the first line has Mr. Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124663	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, under the law that this assembly passed in 2017 and entered into force on 1 January 2018, you should have adopted the Rules of Procedure on the Register of Real Owners within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. I saw the draft of that law, that regulation at the e-consultation in September last year, but I didn't see that he was brought in that you brought it in, that it was published, so I ask you to answer if that rule was passed and did it come into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124664	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124665	Thank you, Your Honor, you are right about the regulation, but it was foreseen, however, that in the meantime, the five mentioned above came into force. The directive which is the main reason why we are going to change and supplement and the law, and according to it is set for the alignment and adoption of that Regulation on 10 January 2020. Now that the Croatian Parliament adopts this bill, this is the first reading, then access, we are already working on the rulebook in order to comply with this new deadline. Therefore, only because the new Directive so called the so-called Directive had entered into force. 5. Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124666	Thank you, too, Mr. Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124667	I thank the Vice-President, dear Ministers, above all, absolutely welcome that what you said was not expected to cost new legal entities related to enrolment in the register, I would like to ask you something that may not be directly related to this proposed law right now, and it has something to do with preventing money laundering. These are the announcements we have heard about common currency denominations, so, EUR, we know that the largest banknote is EUR 500,00. Now that we know that America has a $100,00 bill for many years, it's not an accident, it's just to prevent and carry out money. I'm curious to know at what stage these suspension talks are and the deminings mentioned, or the bills themselves, do we know that a normal man, at least here or beyond, is not so often in circulation, and that its elimination would have the same thing to do with money laundering itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124668	Mr. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124669	Thank you very much. Well, your Honor, I mean, we heard the same thing, and I heard the same thing, of course the intention of gradually withdrawing from the optics, so it's probably going to be that step first that it won't be printed again, after it gradually retreats. As in that case, in terms of cash transactions, and in this slightly broader context, preventing money laundering terrorist financing, as you have heard from my opening words, the Republic of Croatia follows, not only trends, but also monitors all regulations. Accordingly, we will coordinate our legislation, perhaps even more important and parallel to this harmonisation of legislation, to act exactly as the key word, and this law, which is preventive action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124670	Thank you, Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you know that a few months ago we held a press conference about this law, we believe that, because of the transparency that it is important to know who the real owners of the company are. So, according to what I've now understood, so the regulation will edit it in the second month of 2020. However, one irrefutable fact that we are in the next year in the election year and because of the transparency of these elections is important to know who is the real owner of the company because companies will finance certain campaigns and certain parties, and we will not know who the real owner of these companies is, and I think it is precisely in the election year, when we are facing the Euro parliamentary elections and presidential elections as soon as possible, so that some, therefore, things that we don't even know are happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124672	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124673	Thank you very much. So here, I think, according to this dynamic, that I replied to the Honorable representative of the Dolnjak, so by January 10th, it is certainly the deadline for alignment, in 2020, that is, according to this basic plan, before the parliamentary elections. On the other hand, what we pointed out even in that previous Law, therefore, is exactly that register of real owners, which I believe and I know, as well as I do, that he was welcomed in HS, that just such a single step is made and that simply, we can say further contribute to this element and prevent money laundering from financing terrorism, but probably also help in some other elements. The bodies that I have listed, which are an integral part of the overall system, including law enforcement bodies, have insight into that register and will have insight, of course, at any moment, and now according to this Directive, as you can hear, one part of it will, of course, be publicly available under certain conditions, as defined by the Directive, Internet, therefore, via the Internet portal of registration and payment of certain fees, which will be all prescribed by the Regulation. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124674	Thank you, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, a little reference to the previous replica of fellow Curray. The EUR 500,00 note has not been printed since 2014. So she's going towards retreating, there's no new ones until these current ones are exhausted, she's still going to be in circulation, but she's going towards moving because because of her size she's more than suitable for what we're discussing here right now. However, I would only warn the minister of something he was saying. You have called for the preamble to Directive 843 of 2018 and there, in point 36, the possibility of payment is really mentioned. But that's right, the possibility of paying attention to the register of real owners. And as we do not pay an insight into the court register via the Internet, as we do not pay an insight into the annual financial reports register, so I see neither the need nor the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to charge for this as well. So, payment is a possibility, not a commitment for Member States. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124676	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124677	Well, yes, you've said well, Your Honor, by quoting that preamble, I also point out once again in point 34 where it is specifically stated that we should seek, I will quote, a fair balance, especially between the public interest in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, but also the fundamental rights of respondents. So we assume that with these provisions, that is, those points in preamble are somehow open to public access, but on the other hand, to retain certain ropes that should still exist, which should be in force. In any case, of course, it will be further prescribed by all the regulations and I repeat once again, what is most important, that those bodies that need to have insight into a register like this, will have it. And as for the public interest, I repeat, here, this way and it is now possible, but of course, with certain preconditions. I said what would be visible and possible to be visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124678	Thank you, too. And in the end, ma'am. You're coming back.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124679	Your Honor, I thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I ask you once again to point out the situation in the Republic of Croatia as regards this particular topic, because sometimes when we discuss it, it means, specifically, about preventing terrorism and money rights, all of these registers and data in the debate come in a broader form and we are discussing them in such a way that we may suggest that personal data protection be threatened. We are pleased that the past period at European Parliament level, where we have our representatives, has led a debate that tries to bring this down to a minimum, and of course to the goal of, of course, preventing terrorism and money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124680	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124681	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, here, I will use your question and replica to mention once again what in the opening part, with these numerical indicators that I have said and we are talking about hundreds of millions and billions of kunas of suspicious transactions that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing terrorism analyzed, passed on to the law enforcement authorities, but again, since there are colleagues from the office who are working hard and hard to do their job. Just to mention this latest assessment and the International Centre for Returns Report from Basel, very often in the Croatian Parliament we mention various international comparisons and some rankings of countries, where we are and how we are compared to other countries by this or that indicator, we really need to mention here again. Therefore, it was assessed in the top 10 of 129 analysed, estimated countries as the least risky countries for money laundering and terrorist financing. I think it's one good thing for all of us, I'd say to all of you honor and praise, to all the bodies not just the office, to all the bodies involved in this preventive part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124682	Thank you very much. If the committee reporter wants to take the floor, no, I'm opening the debate, first in line Mr. Robert Podolnjak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124683	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in October 2017, the law came into force on 1 January of last year and has transposed the EU Directive of 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing and some other EU regulations. The law is when the real application of European regulations and the Directive are adopted which builds on our legal order mechanisms to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, the bodies that are responsible for this so-called. financial and intelligence units and in particular that information on all real owners of companies, foundations, trusts, foundations, etc. will be available to those bodies but also to other legal and physical persons. In the discussion of this law in 2017, we, as the Club of Representatives of MOST, advocated that data from the Register of Real Owners, so certain companies are public, for the general public, therefore for all legal and natural persons and those who would not have to prove a specific legitimate legal interest, so that definition provided for by law which was extremely difficult to implement in such a way that legal or natural persons can really access certain data from the Register of Real Owners. We also referred to examples and good practice of some other Member States, the EU Member States which opened their register of real owners and certain data to the public, regardless of what was not foreseen by this EU Directive. 4. It's a directive. We already proposed amendments to this law in December 2017 that would allow public access to data from the Register of Real Owners. In that moment, already in 2017 in the debate of the European Parliament and of the Council, so-called 5. Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing, and that 5. The directive that the debate began already at that time was adopted last year, came into force in July 2018 and this very 5. The Directive is the basis for the present, for this proposal for a law implementing the content of this Directive in amendments to this law. So already in 2017 we wanted to make certain data about the real owners of companies, foundations, foundations etc. be made available to the general public, therefore, to all those legal and natural persons who want to see that information without having to demonstrate a certain legitimate legal interest. Unfortunately, in the middle of last year, our first-reading bill was rejected, and today we are witnessing that the proposer of the Ministry of Finance or the Government is proposing what we proposed last year, in addition to the other intended content, which is being implemented 5. EU Directive. Of course we support the changes that come with 5. The Directives that should, as explained in this Directive, prevent certain legal gaps which are seen in the application of the European Directive and national legislation and therefore new 5. The directive that came into force last year, but also the European legislator made one important step. Namely, dock 4. The Directive did not explicitly stipulate that the Register of Real Owners would be made available to the public and certain information which the Proposer also spoke of, in addition to the names and last names, the date of birth, the State, etc., in 5. The Directive provides for that. In the 2018 Directive, Article 30 of that Directive is amended and it is prescribed that Member States will ensure that real property information is available in all cases not only to competent authorities and financial intelligence units without any restrictions and certain bonds but also to the general public. The persons who make up this entire public will be allowed access to at least information on the name, month and year of birth, country of residence and nationality of the real owner, and the natural and extent of the ownership stake it holds. Therefore, only this directive from last year was prescribed that the register of real owners must be made available to the entire public, and it is only available for now in some EU Member States. We too had high expectations of the bill announced for discussion and expected that our legislator, or government, when proposing to amend the law, would allow that register of real owners to be made available as soon as possible. It is a good thing that this bill, addressed to the Croatian Parliament, in its first reading, came into force only half a year after the EU directive came into force. We consider that a positive step in any case. However, we must say that the part that we are not satisfied with follows. In preparation for the debate on this point, and I have asked the Minister, following his presentation on the adoption of certain sub-legislative rules, we must conclude that if the Minister of Finance, has not yet passed a p9legal regulation, a regulation on the register of real owners, and under the law he was obliged to adopt by 30 June of last year, the question arises in which way the law can be applied, unless there are no regulations, which regulates, the register of real owners, with all the information relevant to this sub-legisl act. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Minister in the Assembly at this time, because I expect that he will have to answer, because if this sublaw is necessary for the application of the law, the question is, how can we apply the law, if we do not have this sublaw until today, and the minister calls for the new directive to come into force and to refer this bill to the procedure to wait until this law is passed. But there's one problem, this law is only in the first reading, it may appear in the second reading, in a month, two or three, so it will come into effect, maybe in March or April, which means we won't have a rule on the register of real owners either then. The new rulebook, the draft rulebook will have to be sent to the e-consultation, so it'll take another month, so we'll actually have that rulebook, with a big delay in time. According to the draft law, which we have before us, I draw attention to the fact that the regulation on the register of real owners, mentioned by Mr. Minister, according to this proposal of the law, should be adopted with a deadline of 30 March 2020. So, with an extremely large delay, some other provisions and other sublaws should enter into force or be adopted by the end of 2019, but precisely this regulation which we are talking about, and which way the whole public should have access to and which data from the register of the real owner is provided for, with the deadline of adoption until 30 March 2020. And when they started writing to me about the bill, which will finally open the register of real owners, and that the media and citizens, too, will have the opportunity to see really who are the real owners of a number of companies that we don't know about today, I have to say that they will be disappointed, because unfortunately, and the practice is always hidden in the details, the law may be passed in a few months, but the rule, unfortunately, will not. Without that regulation, the regulations of the sublaw will not be regulated, in which way the public will have the right to understand that register, which data will have the right to see, what compensation will be prescribed, how a request for access will be submitted to that register and everything else. And I must say that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, what we expect after the debate on this bill, to first urgently bring the register, the regulation on the register of real owners, because it is obviously necessary and essential for the application of the law that has been in force for a year. We expect important deadlines to be set for the adoption of the rules based on this amendment to the law. We do not see any law, if the proposal for a regulation has already been on e-consultation, so the provisions of this Regulation are already defined by the basis of the existing law. In the new regulation, only those provisions should be implemented and amended, resulting from this amendment to the law which is now on the agenda. But I think it would be a complete mistake for the public to again, for a certain period of time, hide the publication of the register of real owners for the entire public. If it is already the government and the ministry, they took a step forward to discuss the bill very soon after the directive came into force, half a year later. We do not see any justification for delaying the publication of the register of real owners for the general public to hide not only until March 2020 but also longer, because the deadline for the Minister of Finance under this proposal is March 2020, but look at the basis of the existing law, you should have passed the rule by 30 June of last year, we are in January 2019, there is no rule. But there is no sanction unless the regulation is passed, I just wonder how this law applies in practice without a rule that is necessary and important under the law. How does the law apply when the rules have been gone for over a year? It's a question I couldn't ask after the replica in the first part, but I certainly expect an answer to that. We appeal and will depend on the support and possible amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most in the second reading, that deadlines for the adoption of sub-legislative acts are maximumly shortened and that the publication of the register for the entire public is defined by a deadline that would have to be as said by counterpart Sladolov, before the next presidential elections, in order to really know who really financed the presidential elections in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124684	Thank you very much. Now it's in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Dear Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124685	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Representatives, the Honorable Citizens. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. In the past, there has been a debate, parallel to it, about preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, but it has been held in parallel by a debate that may even be much more familiar with all of us, which is the protection of personal data and GDPR that has come into effect. Of course, it was important to reconcile these two important topics and the right to protect personal data as well as to prevent the worst that happens when we do not have some of these personal data and that is terrorism and, of course, money laundering. This directive, which has come into force, which we are now introducing with amendments and additions to this law, has eight new issues, this concerns the national risk assessment, the assessment of the party's risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, and what is very important to stress that Croatia is among the 10 top countries where money is hard to track, and this is a very important thing. That our citizens have some slightly more specific data, so in Croatia 2,73 billion transactions are being processed to check whether they are for one of these purposes money laundering or terrorism, this does not mean that this amount is being washed, but of course they are suspicious transactions that are being reviewed and our Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing is certainly getting various praises and is doing very well. Also, what led this debate, and it is also known to the public, are virtual currencies, currency crypts, and also this public approach to the register of real owners that is very important not only from the point of view of the objectives of this law but also because of many other issues but it is important that under this law we disclose those personal data, that coverage and the scope of the data concerning the subject and the objectives of this law, also one of the issues that is further regulated by this law, is the introduction of a list of prominent public duties in the Republic of which the holders consider politically exposed persons. As regards access to the Register of Real Owners and other Parties' proposals on this subject and before to introduce it, the Government was not against, but there was a debate in which extent, when and how, we have this article 36 which clearly tells us that those who come to such data must be recorded, because when someone has personal data it is very important not to abuse them, so we can have information about someone's disease, about medicines that someone is using, these personal data can be subject to blackmail from people who collect them so that it is very important that they are collected for purpose and that we know who uses them. The HDZ Club will support these amendments and amendments to the law, and here I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124686	Thank you very much. In front of the SDP club, Mr. Lalovec will perform first and then Mr. Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. We are facing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, meaning, as already stated, that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, is intended in an appropriate way to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU law primarily for the purpose of transposing Directive 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 849/2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. This law provides for a more detailed implementation of a national risk assessment of money laundering and terrorist financing in order to identify the assessment, understanding and reduction of the risk of the same, and a risk assessment based on a risk assessment carried out by banks and other bonds in relation to the parties when carrying out the party's depth analysis measures, including a risk assessment related to the geographical area, and for products, services, transactions and channels used for the delivery of products and services to the end-user. So as the law itself states. One of the first contacts that it creates with these clients is actually business banks, and the most actually lies to recognize whether possible abuses are involved, and in this way it is even more detailed that a certain risk assessment will be carried out, especially in these new technologies and the availability of information is very important, especially that all these systems are very well-meaning networked by the state means with business banks and other supervisory authorities. For the first time in relation to domestic legislation, the bill also introduces the definition of virtual property, virtual currencies and a trustee service provider, so we know that today it is so-called. This bitcoin, one of the virtual currencies that is increasingly and more taking place on the monetary market of some value. And it changes other values, replaces them. What is important is the step in this law, and a little later on, on these still certain concerns and colleagues, Grbin will say that it is the news that the introduction of public access to the register of real owners of legal entities for the transparency of data on the real owner of legal entities. So we know very well that in today's market in the Republic of Croatia in the last ten years, so on. those numerous phantom companies that were looking at the total blockages of the amounts blocked, there were numerous companies that had owned one owner or were connected owners, then it was very difficult to come to who they were, in fact, formed that value chain of liquidity, which does not mean, on the other hand, that they participate in these processes such as preventing money laundering and financing of tourism, but that information can be used in this other context, the context when they want to check maybe one whole series of business activities that can ultimately involve you to be damaged or as regards goods or business, so that this Register of real owners does not necessarily just mean in this purpose and because of its adoption of its public access and because of its greater transparency is important to the entire social community, means economic and business community in the Republic, that they have access to the information and that they want to reduce the risks of the markets, which they do not want to be broken down in terms with other businesses, which they want to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to re-extivilated, in other businesses. It also introduces a list of prominent public duties in the Republic of Croatia whose holders are considered politically exposed persons, will be published on the Internet pages, meaning it is not about the names of people and ministers or presidents, but rather about the list of functions and will be more detailed on the international co-operation of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering as a Financial Intelligence Unit, in accordance with international standards and cooperation between competent supervisory authorities. So since this is about this 5. A directive that will now be implemented in the Croatian legal system means this directive gives certain steps, and.../incomprehensible/... a colleague of the coat of arms to say certain other possible difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124688	I thank my colleague, Lalovec. My colleague Lalovac explained in detail the content of the law as a whole, and I'm only allowed to deal with one segment of it, but I hold one segment that is not only important but perhaps the most important instrument in the fight to effectively prevent money laundering. I daren't speak of that other part of the name of this law. So, I will address my debate on the issue of publishing data from the Register of Real Owners. Let us return for a moment in 2017 when the law that we are now amending was passed and we return to all that debate that took place about Articles 34 and 35, which referred to the issue of limiting access to the Register of Real Owners when we talk about all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have also warned today that Directive 2015/849 spoke of legitimate interest. On the contrary, in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a law adopted by the Parliament, we are talking about something else, we are talking about a legitimate legal interest. Justified legal interest is like such a narrow term. Someone on the side might think that what I'm talking about is some kind of legal trinkets, little details and that it's unnecessary to beat up on details. But what does this detail mean in real life? This means that a person who wanted to make an insight into the register under this law, and the question is, could it have been because of the fact that the regulation had not been passed since 2017, so until today, a person who wanted to make an insight into the register, should have done what? Prove that he has a legitimate legal interest in insight into certain data. Such a restriction is not only contrary to EU law but is contrary to the fundamental foundations of a country that wants to be democratic, which wants to be legal. And that is that information of this importance must be transparent, search and easily available. We are pleased that this bill has taken a step forward in relation to what we had in 2017, what we adopted. What we have finally tried to influence and amendments, for example, as the erasure of art here is overlooked. The 35th and our amendment reads exactly like that. 35. The government did not accept it then, today came to mind and in that part we welcome progress, but if that were the case, it would be great, but it's not. What's in this law is the problem part that applies to art. The 32nd Act, i.e. the amendments to the new Regulation. So instead of taking a step forward based on what was a good, good guideline, we go a step forward, and then after that we take a step back. Why? Because the dam, because the ramp will be made to access information and data on real owners in another way, which is, firstly, by the fact that the data from the register will be charged and further by the fact that they will not be easily searched. I will explain to you why this is wrong and that it is not in the spirit of other registration systems in the Republic of Croatia. For example, the court register, if you want a formal correction from the court register that you will use in another procedure, for example, to verify the public register or so, you will go to a court of law and there you will pay and receive an excerpt from the court register. But if you need an excerpt from the court register for any other use, for use that is not as strictly formal as for example a confirmation of a contract with a public notary, then you will use the information that is publicly available to you, in a machine-searched form from the Internet via the Ministry of Justice portal, via a court register. And it's great and it works great, it doesn't charge, it's easily available and searchable to every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, this system is much better, and there it should be commended how things work in the Republic of Croatia because yet we are not all so black, this system often works much better than in other countries, especially in the part where we talk about connectivity with the register of financial reports. You, on one click, switch to the website of FINA and receive financial reports for the company you are searching. At the same time, all persons associated with these companies, whether they were members, for example, limited liability companies, management members, members of the Supervisory Board, etc., all of these persons, you get very detailed personal information, which, for example, includes their OIB. On the other hand, if a person, and is not without reason exactly in the Law on the Prevention of Money Rights, is talking about real owners, if a person wants to hide behind an individual who has paid 100, 200, 300 EUR, 1,000,00 kn, to be a fictitious owner, you will not be able to obtain information about him so easily. Why? Because you will need to contact the Regulation directly with knowledge through a system that is not searched. So, you'll either stick, or you'll need some prior knowledge that for a particular company, you might get information about its real owner rather than having it in the same way as the Annual Financial Reports be linked to the court register. The matter of cost, the state here has a certain job, so it's okay to charge for it. No, colleagues and colleagues. The state would have all this work even if the register were not public for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it would have to be available and searchable for other institutions such as the Tax Administration, such as other state administration systems, etc. Enabling the public of this register, does not significantly increase the cost, and on the other hand, increases transparency and enables all those involved in the Republic of Croatia to fight injustice, crime and lies, and this in modern democratic society is not only state institutions, but also the media and the Association of Citizens, and also interested individuals who, for example, think that their parliamentary representative, their mayor, or so on, is corrupt, enables them to come up with information to prove or support their, unfortunately, often justified claims. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this Law took a step forward and then stopped and actually returned because it presented to the public that a register which is valuable and good and which should be available would be really accessible, and then created barriers, barriers of administrative nature, collection, inability to easily search for it and basically one non-transparentity. Our proposal is, let's take this step, show that the Republic of Croatia is indeed a democratic and legal state, that those provisions of the Constitution on access to information are not just a dead letter and on paper and that we provide a real, truly useful approach to such a single register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124689	Now it's individual debates. - Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124690	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would warn that this bill itself and the system of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing actually require a lot of stakeholders and requires a lot of stakeholders to participate and is very complex, but here as the minister said, we are still in a group of those countries that are very safe in a way that still money laundering does not happen as often or as drastically as in some other countries. When we talk about the system then we must say that there are several bodies, and these are prevention bodies, so it is already mentioned that these are both banks and exchangers, insurance companies, brokers, lawyers, etc., that surveillance bodies are also very important in that system, such as the CNB, HANFA, the Financial Inspectorate, the Tax and Customs Administration, that it is also important that our Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering which is, in fact, one intermediate body, which is coordinating the entire system, then the law enforcement bodies that carry out police reconnaissancesances, the State Attorney's Office, and also the judiciary that the entire system, actually implements in a way to carry out criminal proceedings. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has accepted the system of this administrative type where our Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering within the Ministry of Finance has assessed it as a very high quality model which has actually been applied in most countries and as such is significantly and respectable, given that the effects that the office achieves in this way are very, very high quality and what it would like to warn that here on the pages of the Ministry of Finance has, we have annual reports, have been shortened either this more extensively where I office gives all the information on how many proceedings are ongoing or what has been done over the past years. Here is the freshest data from 2017 where the number of open cases that occurred in the 479 case verification process, where for 230 cases was reported suspected of money laundering, let's say 11 suspected terrorist financing. So, it's doubt still in these procedures really haven't, it doesn't have to mean that there are as many as suspected that they are actually happening. It is mentioned before how valuable it is, and this is actually an extraordinary effort when it is necessary to verify over 50,000 thousand transactions that are to be checked at that time and at that time in order to determine the rights, the real situation of this in those transactions. I would also like to note that these changes that are happening are in line with our, our legislation with the Directive which has changed since 2015 until 2018 and it is very important to note that, while colleagues have already mentioned, in this system it is also important to introduce and define virtual property, virtual currencies and provide a custodian's wallet service and to introduce the list of legal and physical persons engaged in the exchange of such virtual and fiduciary currencies and providing a custodian wallet service. This so far in our framework has not been legal, has been covered and given the changes that occur on the virtual market is very important and it has been united and incorporated into the law itself. As for the real owners, yes, it is very important that we have access to the real owners and that it is up to that transparency to bring them back together. What is stated, and we are all aware that through additions and amendments to the Trade Register Act, and then by tracking data through a financial agency, we can actually come up with very high quality data, with so far we have been able to enter and we have even had some links with some entities and related persons in some societies. The point is that behind this, we may not be able to reach all the real owners in the system if it is a hidden owner, and it empowers someone or has paid someone to represent a company, it will certainly look for new, new, new requirements and new solutions that we will surely be able to obtain more quality data and what we mentioned on the board and we really need to put an end to those who are entrepreneurs, who represent themselves to entrepreneurs and we have those who really use certain system gaps to actually cheat certain natural and legal persons and thus damage them and then we have these huge, huge claims either physical and legal persons, whether the state for VAT and etc. As far as I'm concerned, when we say making it available to the public under the conditions of registration and payment of compensation, I think it's even limited here where this fee is not going to be so high, which in one way allows it to be one controlled, not the unlawful use of data for which it would not be good, no matter how much we want it to be as transparent. I think that in this way this law allows for a further step, certainly a lot will be made in view of the demanding time in which we live where we have different challenges in terms of terrorism and terrorist financing, and in light of all these developments around us, so it is very important that all systems and, unfortunately, the more we have the possibility of sharing information that we will have and which these very systems will be able to control and prevent, at the very least, everything that can happen because, unfortunately, if this prevention is lost, then there can be major and difficult consequences that no one is in the interest of. So here's what I think is a big and significant step, and that's what needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124691	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Ante Babic. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124692	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Peric, I only came forward because of one thing you were talking about and you said that in fact the Office and the Ministry of Finance themselves are at the very top of the countries regarding the prevention of money laundering and, in fact, all relevant international institutions from the World Bank, the EU, the Council of Europe, the International Monetary Fund says that we, as far as the preventive system itself is concerned, have brought this much into line. What I would like to emphasise, and you can also confirm, is that some of our colleagues have expressed their doubts because of this very directive, number 5, which allows them to decide on the administrative costs themselves related to the issue of information contained in the regulation itself. So that rule should be passed as far as I have seen in the draft law by the end of 2019. Therefore, these suggestions, or objects of our colleagues, do not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124693	Thank you. Mrs. Peric, the answer, shouldn't you? Thank you, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124694	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 556. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 111 for, 6 abstentions and 7 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124695	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 495; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall therefore apply to this item of the agenda. The hearing was held on 4th. The Committee on Law, Health and Social Policy, for Politics, for Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr Tomislav Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124696	Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies. The applicable Law on the prevention of drug abuse in order to protect the lives and health of people in order to combat drug abuse is to regulate the conditions for the cultivation of drugs, the conditions for the production, possession and trafficking of drugs and substances that can be used for the production of drugs, the control of the cultivation of drugs from which drugs can be obtained, and the direct possession and trafficking of drugs and substances that can be used for the production of drugs, drug control and drug abuse measures and the system for the prevention of addiction and assistance to addicts and occasional drug users. On 10 May 2005, the EU Council adopted Council Decision 2005/387 on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances. In 2007 the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a protocol on an early warning system in the event of the emergence of new psychoactive substances in the Republic of Croatia. In order to ensure full cooperation of all stakeholders of the early warning system, the proposed legislative changes have been made subject to the obligation of all bodies, institutions and other legal persons involved in the system for the provision of information to the HCJZ acting as national coordinator and exchanging information on new psychoactive substances in order to protect public health and to apply control measures. In the last few years, there has been a very rapid increase in the number of new psychoactive substances that are not under legal control in the EU and the Republic of Croatia through early warning systems. It is necessary to define the concept of new psychoactive substances by law on the prevention of drug abuse in order to ensure sanctionation and to establish the basis for handling until the time when they are placed on the list of drugs, psychotropic substances and plants from which drugs and substances can be used to produce drugs. The legislative proposal also aligns national legislation with the EU acquis by transposing Directive 2017/2103 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017 amending Council Framework Decision 2004/757 to cover new psychoactive substances with the definition of drugs and repealing Council Decision 2005/387. Since it is mainly synthetic cannabinoids whose consumption can cause serious health effects, even with a fatal outcome in order to protect people's life and health, in the event of the emergence of a new psychoactive substance, this legislative proposal allows competent inspections to act quickly and effectively to prevent the use of products containing psychoactive or new psychoactive substances. When carrying out inspection, the competent inspector shall suspect that the composition of the product does not correspond to the composition indicated on the product notice, i.e. that the product contains drugs or new psychoactive substances is authorised to temporarily prohibit the placing of that product on the market until the analysis has established that the product is correct. Until the results of the analysis, the inspector is authorised to confiscate the products and seal them. Where an analysis determines that the product system does not correspond to the composition indicated on the product notice, i.e. that the product contains drugs or new psychoactive substances in order to protect life and human health, the Minister responsible for healthcare shall be authorised, without delay, to adopt an order prohibiting the use of the new psychoactive substance. In accordance with the legislative proposal, the order remains in force until a new psychoactive substance is included in the list of drugs, psychotropic substances and drugs from which drugs can be obtained, and substances that can be used for the production of drugs and for a maximum period of 12 months. The new drug market is characterized by high dynamics, the services that work with drug consumption or drug addicts, such as metal health services, prevention of non-patient treatment of addiction and programme providers, reduction of damage, very often have the possibility of owning new psychoactive substances that are currently active among consumers. The proposed law allows staff to be treated, implemented by treatment prevention, withdrawal and reduction programmes, in the event of a visit to the cause of substances suspected of a new psychoactive substance. Following that legislative proposal, it provides for the possibility that authorised employees, who implement programmes to prevent the treatment of withdrawal and reduction of damages to monitor the availability and the occurrence of new psychoactive substances, in order to protect public health, may possess the causes of drugs in order to rest on the analysis of the authorised laboratory. Given that there are conditions for... the drug seized, provided for by the applicable Drug Abuse Prevention Act, refers only to criminal cases, it is problematic to destroy drugs seized in criminal proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The destruction of drugs by power is a verdict or solution, Article 51 of the applicable law, significantly extends the mandatory storage and storage of drugs, which creates additional costs and difficulties in the work and functioning of the Center for Forensic Studies, Research and Engineering and... The Ministry of the Interior, therefore, is governed by this legislative proposal by the destruction of drugs seized on infringement proceedings, which would significantly shorten those deadlines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Proposed amendments to the law, the suspension and issue of a special authorisation for the implementation of the second through the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with practice in other EU Member States, respecting the EU principle of freedom of movement of goods within the EU and European economic space. Transport of the second via the territory of the Republic of Croatia would be achieved on the basis of an export licence from the regulatory authority of the exporting country and an import licence from the regulatory authority of the country which imports these drugs. Legal changes define industrial hemp, such as hemp on a common EU variety list with DHC content of 0.2% or smaller and are not included in the signature of a drug-based plant, it is also possible to use the entire plant of industrial hemp, in the construction, textile and cosmetic industries, and the car industry of paper, and the production of bio-fuels, unlike the present state, where seeds of that variety are used exclusively in the food industry, for the production of food and food for animals, and the rest of the plant is destroyed. This legislative proposal makes it possible, and domestic farmers can use industrial hemp plants as a whole. The legislative proposal simplified the procedures related to the cultivation of industrial hemp in such a way as not to require special authorisations from the Minister responsible for agriculture anymore, for the cultivation of industrial hemp. Instead, an obligation is imposed on producers of industrial hemp, to register the manufacturer of industrial hemp, which is run by the Ministry of Agriculture, and to prescribe a data delivery procedure for the Ministry of Interior. Legislative amendments include a more detailed article relating to the promotion and advertising of drugs, in order to specify the actions undertaken, since the existing normisation did not prove appropriate and clear when it was applied in practice. Larger fines are also prescribed for offences committed by legal persons, related to drug possession, new psychoactive substances, plants or parts of the plant from which drugs or substances can be used to produce drugs and the possession of drugs and new psychoactive substances, and the promotion of drugs and new psychoactive substances. Further to the rationalisation of the number of legal persons with public authority, the Agency's type in the field of health, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, trusts and other legal entities with public authority, the relevant amendments to the 5, 7, 42, 48 and 49 of the applicable Law on the control of drug abuse, under which the Croatian Public Health Office takes over the work of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124697	Thank you. You have 5 replicas, the first line has Mrs. Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124698	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm only interested in one thing, and it's about the medical cannabis commission, so it's, in a way, a possibility, of getting medical cannabis into our pharmacy, a very important factor in the process itself. According to information, which I have, I may be wrong, the minister, the current one, Kujudnzic, did not call this commission further, from the very draft after that, does not have the work of this committee, we know that it is not mandatory, however, would it not be in some way, however, good and pleasant, that this commission, in fact, would have actually made its own analysis, its recommendations, given that it has actually done a huge job in the medical cannabis process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124699	Mr. Secretary, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124700	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, so far there has been no need for a new meeting of this committee, the commission is not disbanded, it still works, in case of need, in case of new information we will now... The commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124701	Mrs Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that the Croatian Parliament finally comes before the Croatian Parliament to decriminalise the use of the entire stem, i.e. the plants of industrial hemp, which has not been the case so far. We know that only seeds of the same plant could be used for food purposes, as you yourself said. However, what bothers me is, not a question to you, but a clear conclusion is that only now after 5 years of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, have we decided to put Croatian farmers, breeders, in a way, in a level playing field with those in the EU as regards cultivation coming from industrial hemp, although we from the SDP have already proposed a bill of law only two years ago that included this solution, but that is, better ever, than never.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124703	Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentarian, so that's a problem that's been in place for five years. So, your government, during Minister Varga's time, has also tried to solve this problem, unfortunately, has failed to reach a mutual agreement with the other ministries, we have succeeded. So, we made a deal with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, to facilitate the records, that no permission is required, that it be easier to register and that the Ministry of Agriculture then send records to the Ministry, so that they know where those fields are that are... , and all because of morphological similarities with plants that contain more than 0.2% of THC. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124705	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124706	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm wondering if you're aware, therefore, whether the Ministry of Health is engaged in the surveillance process, given that we're in the so-called so-called Health Department. The migrant route, where do migrants come from in the area where certain illegal drugs are produced, the MUP has been engaged, had any contact with the Ministry of Health with the problem of migrants, related to the problem of illegal drugs?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124707	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124708	Thank you very much. ... Parliamentary representative Cellic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our Ministry of Health is involved through our pharmaceutical inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124709	Mrs. Devereaux. Shots fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124710	Thank you. My question would be medical, so hemp, and I'm curious or sorry that you didn't at least try to regulate that story with this law. Therefore, medical hemp does not reduce lesions in patients with multiple sclerosis, does not treat from brain tumors, but certainly reduces the problems of patients who suffer from these diseases whom and support is in paliative care. So patients can't afford 2,000.00 kn to 3.000,00 kn per month as long as it takes. What they buy cheaper on the illegal market, there are different concentrations that are also not appropriate. I'm sorry we didn't see that, and I'm curious to know what you're planning to do as Ministry to make medical cannabis more accessible to patients who need it too much?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124711	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124712	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament MPs, so medical hemp as such, is regulated by the 2015 Regulation and is allowed for patients with certain diagnosis, taxed to be used. We don't have any big use of medical cannabis, even those funds are being destroyed due to the expiry date. Also our doctors specialists are not very inclined to attribute such supplements to the recipe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124713	Mr. Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124714	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome this decision on the use of industrial hemp or the use of whole stems, actually, industrial hemp. This, in fact, not only enables producers so far to make additional profits, or additional value, of what has already been lawfully produced, but we are also opening doors to many other new potential producers. In fact, it wasn't too logical that we've been importing something through construction material, insulating material or so. The products we already had at home and what we had to destroy by now's legislation. I think this is a great decision, and I'm going to talk about it even more through an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124715	Would you like to answer? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Yeah? Here you go. - Mrs. Crescent. Ines Strenja, Committee on Health and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124716	I thank Mr. Chairman, I welcome the representatives of the ministry. I think it is necessary to state here what the position of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy was on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. So, at its meeting on November 21st, the Committee discussed this, and we provided the president of HS with, therefore, our opinion, we discussed it as a parent body in accordance with Article. 85. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the opening part of the proposal, the representative pointed out that this legislative proposal harmonises national legislation with the acquis of the EU and transposes Directive 2017/2103 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017 amending Council Framework Decision 2004/757/JHA in order to cover new psychoactive substances with the definition of drugs, and also to repeal the previous Council decision. Defining the idea of new psychoactive substances is necessary for the development of a very rapid increase in the number of new psychoactive substances in the EU and the Republic of Croatia that are not under legal control and pose a threat to public health until the time they are placed on the list of drugs, psychotropic substances and drugs from which drugs can be obtained, and substances that can be used to produce drugs. The Committee members particularly praised the definition of new psychoactive substances since it is mainly synthetic cannabioids whose consumption can cause serious health consequences, even with fatal outcome. Legal changes are aimed at protecting people's lives and health, allowing health ministers to register new psychoactive substances, and to initiate a procedure not to distribute or to adopt an order to prohibit the use of a new psychoactive substance. They also praised the members for defining industrial hemp as a hemp located on the EU common variety line with TCH content of 0.2% and smaller and extending the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture over the cultivation of this hemp and for industrial purposes. This would allow the use of so far the entire plants of industrial hemp in both construction, textile, cosmetic, auto-industry and the paper industry as well as the production of biomass fuel, unlike where seeds of those varieties were used in the food industry for the production of food and feed for animals and the rest of the plant was destroyed. This legislative proposal has amended this and domestic agricultural growers have been placed in a level playing field with EU agricultural producers in terms of the usability of industrial hemp plants. The debate raised the question of the possibility and profitability of the production of medical cannabis and in the Republic of Croatia under strictly controlled conditions for which there is neither an appropriate legal framework nor any study of effectiveness nor technical preparation. Some members of the board also felt that the pharmaceutical prices of the medicinal product on the basis of medical hemp were really high and that a solution for its reduction should be found, however, with greater availability, the issue of greater abuse was also raised, concluded at the end of the debate. The Committee members agreed that this is a good legal solution that is in line with the recommendations of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs Monitoring and Drug Dependence from the Early Recognition System. Accordingly, the members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament on the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse and any objections, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate would be submitted to the Proposer to take them into account in the preparation of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124717	Thank you, too. I'm opening an argument and I'm giving Mrs. Devereaux another word. Ines Strenja who will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124718	Thank you. A little bit about drugs to actually understand how important this topic is and about drugs should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament and more times a year if necessary. So drugs are more lucrative business in the world, and it is understandable that the situation is being maintained anywhere in Europe and so is our situation. Drug trafficking is certainly one of the most productive forms of organised crime both in the world and in Europe and in our country, and therefore the fight against drug trafficking is very demanding and difficult. Europe is a very demanding and very important drug market where domestic production is present and drug trafficking from other parts of the world such as Latin America, North Africa, Western Asia. With Europe as a producer of synthetic cannabis and other synthetic drugs, China and India are countries where many new psychoactive substances come from. In the last 10 years, the number of new substances on the drug market has been especially increased. In the case of cannabis, European production has, to some extent, replaced even imports. New psychoactive substances have become available in the drug market across Europe, and they are still a major problem in public health and are putting challenges ahead of policy makers in all countries. The EU has therefore established an early warning system for new psychoactive substances, thus improving the exchange of information on new substances occurring on the market. Reduced time is needed to assess the risk associated with these substances and to establish control over them throughout Europe. With this legal solution, that is how we regulate it. So practically every month there are some new substances that are placed on the list of controlled substances. Two years ago, there was a generic list that made a lot of things easier. So, namely, there were a lot of substances that could produce some kind of substance if the chemical composition used by criminal miles changed. In the last 5 years, more than 700 substances in the EU have been placed on the list of controlled substances, and only this year in Croatia 40. During this year, 38 new substances were discovered in the EU and 10 in Croatia last year are in the form of mixtures, powder, tablets and crystals. Our reference centre for this is the Center for Forensic Studies, Research and Arts Ivan Vučetić, where matter must first be reported and only then can be followed. So according to the European report on drugs, it is a European monitoring centre for comrades and others, there has been a new increase in extasy use. There are indications that it is becoming increasingly popular with existing users of stimulants as well as with new young users. This means that measures should be taken to prevent and reduce damage directed at new users who may be using highly dosed products and who are not aware of the risks associated with the use of these substances. So the research carried out also suggests that cocaine is increasingly consumed in the Western and southern European countries while amphetamines are more used in northern and eastern Europe. And cocaine in our office last year's report turned out to be a drug that has more and more users in our country every year. In some other countries, there has been an increase in the presence of treatment due to abuse and dependence on amphetamines. So almost half of all these users use them in these amphetamines and intravenously. New estimates show that cannabis is the largest to the value of the illegal European drug market and that cannabis production has thus become the head of the income generator for organised crime. Crimes associated with cannabis account for about 3/4 of all drug-related criminal acts. It is estimated that about 1% of adults in Europe use cannabis daily or almost daily, and we do not need to ignore it. So it's quite present in our society that it's something that's common, which isn't too harmful, what it is, what it can go through. Unfortunately, that's not true. The consequences of drug use are individual, but also his community and state. At personal level, drug use can cause acute and chronic health problems and in some cases can lead to death. The link between drug abuse and other mental disorders has been established most frequently severe depression, anxiety disorders, personality disorders. The most common extent of drug-related problems is seen through the number of those who have approached treatment due to drug abuse. And that is why I think it is necessary to stress here again the problem that, which I think is the problem, which my club has pointed out in particular, which is the problem of shutting down the office for, our office means the Government Office for Combating Drugs, because among the leading public health problems in Europe, Croatia and many areas of the world and continues to abuse drugs which, as well as medically as a social phenomenon, has been causing general attention for many years. Drug use is often associated with other risky behaviors and addictions, such as smoking, alcoholism, gambling, etc. And what was planned is that our office will slowly, apart from the fight against drugs, expand its meanings in the field of work and action and on other addictions. In this way, by shutting down and attaching only to the Ministry of Health or the Institute of Public Health, we have, in some ways, stopped some of these things. So, what I'd like to say is that in a few details of the data we have for the past period. So, according to the data available from the healthcare system, more than 7,000 people have been treated annually in health institutions in Croatia, whether in hospital or in the outpatient system. So it's done outpatiently and hospitally. In 2017, there were 7,157 people who were slightly more than the previous year, for some 100ths, of the total treatment of 5,773 took opiates, meaning 80%, and the second, and other psychoactive agents took 1,384. The ratio of opiate intake and no opiate is very similar to that of previous years. The number of people who were on treatment for the first time in 2017 shows no major changes. In 2017, 958 people were treated for the first time, of which 204, were heroin addicts, and 754 consumers or drug addictions. So the system continues, the system continues to enter more intoxicated than intoxicating addicts annually. Every new opiate addict gets three intoxicated. As addiction to opiates requires longer treatment and care, the retention of opiate addicts in the health care system indicates that the treatment is effective and that heroin addicts are not left to the streets and the criminal mile. Therefore, the establishment of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction has enabled the monitoring of the problem at European level. And we were part of that system the whole time. Since the beginning of his activities, he has been working to improve the methodology of standardised research and the development of a drug-related and drug-related knowledge base. Its members shall form a network enabling the collection of the necessary data and coordination of the activities of individual countries. One of the members is Croatia. It acted through the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, an office that was at national level and co-ordinated the work of competent authorities, pooled drug data through its own database and collaborated with the above-mentioned institution as well as with other important international organisations. So the number of offices should be reduced, the number of agencies should be reduced, but should it be linearly? So, one office that was uniting and where besides prevention and treatment of addicts we also had a way of including the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. Both institutions therefore acted at national level through strategic documents. Thus, strategies to combat drug abuse that direct their actions by setting priorities and objectives that need to be ensured and achieved in the area of drugs. Therefore, these strategies are aimed at reducing supply and demand for drugs. The reduction of offers is sought by developing and improving preventive and treatment programmes, as well as exchanges of knowledge, as well as by reducing demand by improving drug-related legal frameworks and by affecting illegal drug production, because I can really say based on what we have in recent decades as it moves in Croatia is a relatively good situation, compared to some countries. And I think that one of them was also one of the results of the good work of the office that was able to fully unite all these ministries and all that was needed to prevent, treat, but also suppress abuse and drug trafficking. Therefore, it is clear progress in drug-related areas from the legislative framework to action towards those who have a problem. It is necessary to continue international cooperation with relevant institutions, unite scientific knowledge and accumulated knowledge to help those in need. For all of this office has been in charge, I am sorry that this way has been abolished and attached to the Institute of Public Health, I hope that at least this part of the monitoring and prevention will continue to work, but the treatment remains now within the health system, and this other part will obviously work the ministries outside that part because you can't expect the Public Health Office to be in some way in coordination and superior to the ministries that have gone their own way. The government's office worked well, the government's office should have also extended its territory to other addictions was already prepared, which, apart from fighting drugs and other addictions, unfortunately became the victim of this cut-off agencies and offices that affected the linearly everything, which was not good. We welcome this bill, which should have meant thinking a little bit better and to help our patients who need medical cannabis, who should also have available a uniform and verifiable quality or concentration that they receive, are in this way in order to meet their needs forced to buy cheaper from an illegal market. We resources we had, it could do the Immunological Institute, it could be one of the areas of his work, unfortunately it was missing. I don't think the ministry should think about the need for this, so I said as a doctor that it doesn't treat brain tumors, what we could hear here from some MPs, not treating multiple sclerosis, but to patients with multiple sclerosis it's very helpful to reduce their problems, their perceptions and everything that has been followed by this disease, as well as patients with malignancies, so it definitely helps to relieve the problems of these patients and it should be available to them for free of charge, and if it is good support, it should be considered for these patients to be in palitative care and in the palitative phase of their treatment. The ministry should think about it, not to say that there is no need, there is, but the patients have no place to sort of, how you're going to register them, how much they really need, how much treatment they need. Doctors of one part of them still do not recognize or are in a position to have enough of such patients so that you do not need to talk about doctors whether or not they prescribe. Patients are very well aware and know that this makes their problems easier, but they need to be made more accessible, much cheaper, that is, for those who suffer from malignant diseases and free of charge within our system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124719	In front of the Club of HNS Representatives Mr. Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124720	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's the first thing I'm going to do is briefly count some things that I think are crucial and important and that we actually welcome these amendments and additions to the drug abuse laws. Afterward, I will focus on a specific example and a proposal that I have previously communicated. Absolutely this is something you needed. Absolutely this is something that may be late, but it's absolutely necessary as soon as possible, I'll tell you why later. What this law, in fact what is good here and what is seen from some practice and experience, and it is this law that seems and deals with, so it is related, and that we had this one proposal in the previous year, a year and a half is to enable the handling of employees who implement prevention programs, cure rehab, etc. that they may have samples of the substance in their possession, that it is not punishable. Why? It's just that we're working on finding out what's better, which is more efficient, new psychoactive, psychotropic things where it's mostly synthetic cannabinoids, so they're the popular air fresheners, which are being told by some form of THC or whatever. And that's good. It also speaks of the possibility of the destruction of stolen drugs in infringement proceedings, di.../incomprehensible/... it was not resolved and what we heard about the same thing about growing industrial hemp, so the whole plant, there is actually up to a concentration of 0,2 THC or THC content and that we are actually putting an even position with other agricultural producers in the EU, therefore, a sort of harmonisation and I think that also regulation and fines for legal persons, and here we are coming to the main part of what I want to discuss. Empty persons where they find possession of some psychoactive substances or part of a plant that can be obtained by drugs, etc. Therefore, their responsibility is also determined in terms of the criminal or monetary penalties prescribed here, which are much greater by this new proposal. What the proposal was all last year, and we know that, especially in Osijek, where I come from, and I have had unpleasant events, mildly said poisoning, perhaps best said overdose with harmful consequences, especially psychotropic and psychoactive substances where countless children have ended up and ended up in hospitals, with permanent damage, just for consumption so-called. Air freshener. And where exactly did the problem come from? The problem is that when something, where we have had and where it is defined here, and I think it is well stated here that there is actually a minister responsible for health by adopting an order to ban the use of new psychoactive substances in one way and why, that can react faster, but what is the problem? The problem is detection, detection. Every time we discover one substance, another substance appears, replaced even though it is proposed here to even take the whole let's say, so some, a group of different psychoactive substances, extends the spectrum of products, let's say, organic compounds, again, of course, the manufacturers jump in and put something that's not on that list. And over the whole last year, I've been communicating with the ministry, where there's actually a need to strengthen prevention. Especially the early tip system. It is stated here in the law that the proposed amendments to the obligations of all bodies, constitutions and other legal persons involved in the system or for the provision of information to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, acting as a national coordinator. And that's okay. But what the proposal is, and I think it would really be important to involve the citizens in that part, is that's what all of us are about, that's what our children's safety is about, and that's what we need to do. We can't have that being legal, because here we are talking about getting a so-called. Smart stores don't talk about the Internet yet, it's an absolutely different pair of gloves, but we need to have a public tip system. And so, even during the year of the 5 months, I sent a letter to the ministry, and then again, we were able to find each other, and my colleague was present at the August 20th meeting, and then I followed up on this particular bill that was then in the process of some planning, making whatever legislation, so that in that preamble part of Article 2(1) of the Law, I added a new point and defined the meaning of this is a unique notification system for citizens who would actually be a kind of mobile application or already on one electronic means, so that they could deliver pictures, report potential illegal substances or incorrect declarations on such similar products. What does that mean in translation? The parent sees a child on the table with such a bag, or someone goes to the store and sees something like that by some fresheners, taking pictures of them through the apps of some various social networks, facebooks, whatever you want, web or these communication services like vibers and so on. deliver it to the competent service. Where, as it says on it, when, nothing more, the inspection comes out, exempts and checks and estimates. Of course, when one base is created, so when you get more than one base, then you'll know there's no need to go out on the ground, at first it'll be more work, but it's one way we can really prevent it and prevent it. Is when he finds himself with someone who's OD'd, so we see that bag, then it's too late for him, but that bag when they're excluded from the doctors who process him and here everything that's listed, that's good, then they react and they can have that sample with them. But we have to go one step further, including the citizens in this because it concerns all of us as parents and all of us, not just parents, but of course we have all the closest people who can be influenced by it because the consequences are enormous. And then that list should be updated every three months at least. And more severe indeed these penalties, more severely punish those legal persons who play the law and know very well what they have, why they have, how they have, because it's not by chance, the kind of smartshops whatever they call them and then get involved with selling it online, where it's also one of the ways to prove it. We had last year, we had recent examples of me in Osijek, and in 2015, I think a young person died here in Zagreb from the consumption of them. So I hope that between these two readings will be the same proposal, I'll repeat it if I have to, if he's lost somewhere, I hope he's not, he'd hate to think that he just threw himself away and nothing happened. This proposal that I actually said here briefly, because, according to some information from the update to the update on the market, up to 270, watch out for 270 new drugs that change something, is in some new way possible to cause these side effects. And that's why it's the goal and it's good that the minister can immediately decide to ban something, but certainly the list, he can't do it based on his feelings, he has to do it based on the findings. And let's try to do this to really tighten the penalties of that legal person, because it's inadmissible and inconceivable and wherever it appears that there are such psychoactive substances in certain substances that are sold legally, I think we should then go through today's Consumer Protection Act where we have had a stricter punishment for such legal persons as regards their general possibilities, the possibilities of work, because we can't say that this is a consumer deception and some bad commercial practice that's something much, much worse. So always with all forms of addiction is prevention of the best medicine and education, it's the same direction we talked about through and the basics at the end of the school, but of course the high school where we just need to educate as much as possible and explain to our children what the consequences are, because in the end line of that picture on the cigarette boxes that they had for some, some goal and certainly that in schools they could do it even better. So I hope that, between these two readings, of course, the HNS Club will support in this proposal in the first reading, and I hope that I will send this proposal again and again which I say does not have to be such, but to just put it in the law that there is a unique system and let it be elaborated at the level of regulations and other tools, but that I know when I see something suspicious that I can take this picture and that I know where I can send it and just say where and when I got it, I got it or in which part it showed up. And that someone will go and rule it out and check it out, and it's already a huge thing, because there are these same products, we see, there have to be declarations on them, they have to write about who the importer is, so if we don't see it in the store itself, if we find somewhere in a public space or anyone else's, we'll be able to jump in a lot of ways and prevent unwanted situations. Because I say when it's found with someone it's unfortunately overdosed on then for that life and that young man most often are young it's already too late. So I ask once again that this mode of prevention be taken into account, and we absolutely welcome these all of these provisions, among which I have cited some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124721	Thank you, he's in front of the HDZ Club now. Mr. Ivan Celic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124722	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the honourable state secretary with a co-worker, respected fellow and fellow Members, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which, among other things, aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. As far as complex matter is concerned, the fact that the statement on the assessment of the effects of the regulation, other than the Ministry of Health, has given as much as 11 other ministries. I think this is a unique law that so many ministries and so many detours of work cover. So, although the Ministry of Health is competent, the body responsible for drawing up the drafts, it was not possible not to take into account opinions and other ministries, and in fact here we have a certain amount of resources, so on the one hand we have medicine, on the other hand we have the police and the judiciary and on the third hand we have an economy and everyone from their carcinus can speak on this topic and represent certain thesis. On the side of medicine, therefore, it will definitely refer to human health, the police issue, the issue of justice, there is art, so there is a certain golden environment, and we can actually mention here an ethical notion of slipper and slop, ski slopes, where we see an entire range, where we see the situation that inside the EU there are no identical laws within EU member states. We have a situation in the Kingdom of Sweden which is a liberal, modern European state where the possession of marijuana is still a criminal offense. We have a situation, let's say, like the Republic of Croatia where it's not a criminal act, possession of smaller quantities, and I think that's good, but now we're going, so when we're talking specifically about marijuana, as some kind of psychoactive substance that's located in some kind of air-empty space, we have a whole range of different thoughts from different experts and definitely these amendments and additions to the drug abuse laws can be served in public debate between citizens and in the Croatian Parliament, to see where this golden environment is and what's most optimal, how is the most optimal legal regulation of this area. The law was passed in 2001. Meanwhile, there have been 7 legislative amendments and additions, but this should be particularly highlighted in the context of the most recent amendments and additions to the EU Directive of 2017 amending the 2004 Council Framework Decision to cover new psychoactive substances with the definition of drugs. Comrade Curaj spoke of this regulation, so there is an early warning system within the EU... and the Republic of Croatia is extremely active and in this area and this area of new psychoactive substances is a challenge, but the Republic of Croatia is through the Government's Office for the Prevention of Abuse second, now it will be in the Management of the Croatian Institute for Public Health, such as in the vast majority of EU countries, these bodies are within the Institute or the Institute of Public Health, will continue to actively contribute to this early warning system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's very important here to say what new psychoactive substances are. Namely, there is a UN Single Convention on Intoxicating Drugs of 1961, the UN Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971, and the area of synthetic drugs subject to control measures throughout the Union in 1997. All that does not fall within that area, the classical conventional others, are called new psychoactive substances and these new psychoactive substances are divided into two basic groups, these are synthetic opioids that are very dangerous, which have a very large number of fatal outcomes, but unfortunately, this situation is dominant in the US and Canada, in the Republic and throughout Europe, synthetic opioids are not such a problem. A much bigger problem in the EU is synthetic cannabinoids. It has already been mentioned, therefore, in 2015 we had a death in the Republic of Croatia, that is what is purchased in smart shops and I think that with these legal changes this availability of synthetic cannabinoids will significantly decrease. In the opening part of the exhibition, State Secretary Dulibic pointed out what is most important in economic terms to these amendments and additions to the law, and is related to industrial hemp, where domestic farmers will be placed in a level playing field with EU agricultural producers in terms of the usability of industrial hemp plants. But I will, first of all, focus on the health aspect. So, situations in European countries are at the same time influenced and they affect global trends in drugs. For some synthetic stimulating drugs such as MDMA or ecstasy, Europe is the main producer, it exports products and knowledge and experiences to other parts of the world. As for cannabis, therefore, European production has replaced imports to a certain extent and on the one hand more and more are being produced by cannabis in the EU with very high THC concentrations, leading to a certain imbalance on the market as regards cannabionide, and has increased imports of cannabis resins that are now being smuggled significantly more in Europe, mostly from Morocco and the whole of North Africa. As for cocaine and heroin, therefore, this is not yet produced in Europe, so cocaine in Latin America, heroin in Asia, but global data indicate that both of these substances have increased production, and this is also seen in fact, according to the latest report by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction of 2018, but also from the Republic of Croatia, data suggest that cocaine production, i.e. cocaine and amphetamine consumption, has increased significantly in the Republic of Croatia, but also at EU-wide level. Although European and international efforts to limit the production and availability of new psychoactive substances now seem to have some effect, there are reports that talk about products in the form of tablets and designs So one of the potentially new problems that fall within the new psychoactive substances are different kinds of benzodiazepines that do not belong to those conventional benzodiazepines that can be purchased via prescriptions rather than they are bought mostly via the Internet and actually selling medicines via the Internet is another good example of how changes in this area happen quickly and this presents challenges for existing strategies and responses models and for tracking drugs. How important it is to prepare for new challenges, shows the success of the early warning system in the EU since 2007 for new psychoactive substances, the system monitors around 670 new drugs, with 400 reported around them, the new 400 each year. Kannabis is still Europe's most widely-expanded illegal drug, it stands out by the amount seized, 2/3 of all drug-related crimes in Europe are actually related to marijuana consumption. Circumstances on the American continent, the latest legalisation in Canada related to the recreational consumption of cannabis, led to the rapid development of the commercial cannabis market, resulting in new forms of available drugs and systems of use for its consumption, and in fact this will also be spilled into the European continent. In most EU countries, the national strategy to combat drug abuse today includes not only illegal drugs and the latest national anti-dependence strategy in the Republic of Croatia is no longer just about illegal drugs as it was before, but also about alcohol and tobacco and new addictions, above all, we think about gambling addiction. These planning tools are used by governments to develop a comprehensive approach and specific answers to various health, social and safety dimensions of the drug problem. Prevention of drug abuse and drug-related problems among young people is a key objective of the European national drug prevention strategy and it includes a wide range of approaches. So universal approaches are focused on the entire population, selective prevention is focused on vulnerable groups that are at greater risk of developing drug-related problems, and the indicated prevention is focused on risk individuals. The application of the quality standards is another way to ensure that interventions are properly implemented and recommendations for practice listed in the guidelines, although implementation based mainly on standards is at local level, there are international standards that serve to reach consensus on the general principles for the implementation of interventions, for example European minimum quality standards on the reduction of demand for drugs accepted by the EU Council, set out the general principles which are met at national levels in different ways. Taking into account the fact that legal changes improve the system of new psychoactive substances, that a better framework is given in the development of national strategies for combating addiction, which will then have significant repercussion to prevent, treat and rehabilitate addiction, to regulate the destruction of drugs not only taken into account in criminal but also infractions as well as better defined the concept, and therefore the usability of industrial hemp, the HDZ Representatives Club will support that proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124723	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sabina Vosovac in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. First of all, I would like to commend the Ministry or the Proposer for the really from the first to the last point of implementation of the procedure envisaged by the submission of a legal act to the Croatian Parliament, meaning that the whole procedure and the impact assessment of the regulations were respected, and I think that as far as this formal act is concerned, many ministries should be guided by your example. As far as the content of your Amendment Act and the additions to the Law on drug abuse are concerned, we at the SDP club would be quite hypocritical if we were to now criticise a law that in its one 80% of its content actually coincides with the proposal we put here in the parliamentary procedure, it seems to me in February 2017, and in October 2017, I will only highlight some of the things that we have proposed in this proposal and I see that they are incorporated into your bill. So what is possible or will be possible if the Croatian Parliament adopts this bill which I have no doubt is that it will decriminalise the use of the entire stem or plant of industrial hemp which I have said in my replica, which has not been the case in the Republic of Croatia so far, we know that so far it has been legal to use only seeds of industrial hemps and by waving exclusively for food purposes for food and animal food production. This law liberalises this part in some way and allows, as I would say, the development of rural areas and the promotion of small entrepreneurship, agriculture and the economy and the whole, because we are convinced that at the moment our farmers are being identified or placed in an equal position with EU producers, they will be able to benefit from all the benefits of this law. In fact, so far, while they could only use 10% of the plants themselves. There were some research somewhere that said that 70 products could be obtained from it, and now that the use of whole stems, or industrial hemp plants, will be legalized, it will be possible to produce from that plant into tens of thousands of new products. Also, so far applicable laws, while using only seed, have been implemented in Croatia to some 650 hectares, and if this legal proposal is accepted, it is assumed that some estimates are that this area could immediately increase to 1500 hectares of farmland in the first year. It's a shame that perhaps in this meantime, I will say so, these 5-6 years, which is in fact in some way in one part and failures and our government, we have on the one hand secured the use of medical hemp, or hemp for medical purposes, but what you said yourself, we have failed to remove certain barriers to allow the use of entire trees of industrial hemps, and in this way for 5-6 years, we have disabled our potential farmers or farmers in a certain part of the profits because they show some data that gross income per hectare is an industrial hemp of 10-12 thousand kuna, and we know that in some media we have also read that some foreign investors were very interested in investing in this sector in Slavonia, but when they saw our regulatory regulations, they found happiness in some other countries where these laws were more flexible. It's about this first legal and yours and our proposal, to actually allow for the 100% use of the industrial hemp stem. What else brings forward the proposal of this law, which is also a positive measure, is the legal control of the emergence of new psychoactive substances, prevention of use. This is much more said by my predecessors, my fellow doctors, but also my colleague Curaj, so this is a big problem, not only in Croatia but also in Europe, we have heard from colleagues here and, in fact, 250 of these new psychoactive substances appear on the market every year, that these drugs, or unsanitary means, but the means that cause addiction. The problem is that they're quite cheap, if we're talking about these so-called air fresheners, their price is 20 kn, their availability is fast, so you can buy them online, you can buy them in smart shops next to schools that produce them, and what's the third and biggest problem that's legal. Actually, it's-it's illegal. And there's a big problem just because all the research shows that the consummations of these drugs are precisely because of easy availability, because of its cheapness, or good, cheapness, that they're our students in schools and that the average years of consumption are 15. And that actually one addict, a treated addict who enters the system of treatment of addiction, comes from three unsupervised addicts who actually belong to this category. I mean, I can't still get the impression of that show checked out, it seems to me, the new TV where the mother of a high school kid actually talked in such a pretty shaken way about her experiences and what's going on in the family life and the family and that boy who got hooked, so I'm going to say it, Colloquial to that air freshener who's just addicted to it, who's having terrible seizures similar to epileptic attacks, foam coming out of his mouth, parents finding him on the floor, he's just not, not really, a very bad show, but I think all those who looked at her could see it, but I think there's a lot of Croatian families who are facing this problem, maybe a lot of parents and children who are still not aware of this problem, and I think that as a state we have to find the most rewarding way for these children, but not only children, but also the society in general, actually helping to get out of this circle hell. The third proposal, which also, I think, is so well actually that through this bill you have established this one system of management of the services that operate with the consumables, which are the first at the source of the information, so these are drug abuse control offices, no, but this one that works with treated addicts, I don't know exactly what that institution is called now, excuse me. But those of the users who come to them are the first to have contact with new psychoactive substances and it is good to prescribe here in what way in these cases to act, and perhaps consider this case, this proposal given by colleague Curaj as well as to allow citizens, that if they have any misunderstandings, they know who to address and get feedback. When we talk about dealing with consumable services, there has been a very important governmental Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which, in cooperation with the MUP, has drawn up a draft protocol of staff of the Department for the Protection of Mental Health and Prevention.../incomprehensible/... hospital treatment of addiction and enforcement programmes in case of arrival in possession of samples of substances, this is the name of this institution that I could not remember, so I think it will contribute to this segment of fighting in reducing or suppressing drug abuse. And also, finally through the law, we regulate and deal with drug abuses in criminal proceedings, we know that a segment in drug possession has been thrown out of criminal law, which is treated as a violation, and very often, or we haven't established that balance between that law and the other laws, so in fact, that part of the amendment of the Penal Code has been left unprotected for a long time, that it wasn't really prescribed what to do with the drug that was seized right in these infringements, which have ceased to be part of the Penal Code. It is good that you are equating drug treatment in this legislative proposal, regardless of the drugs that have been taken in criminal or criminal proceedings. And that's it, as far as this part is concerned. What is the paper, which we did not propose in our bill, which you have proposed as a proposing, you have the full right to do so, is that there will be more detail in the promotion and advertising of drugs, because so far, this space has been under-covered, it has become certain holes, which we support and that more fines will be prescribed for offences committed by legal persons, related to the possession of goods, new psychoactive substances, plants of parts, plants or substances from which drugs, drug promotion and new psychoactive substances can be obtained, which is fine. However, two things are something we express the fence about. First, your decision to abolish the Office for Drug Abuse, whose future role will be taken by the Croatian Institute for Public Health and the abolition of the Croatian Institute for Telemedicine, whose jobs to the future should be taken over by the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute. If I didn't, now too much about it, I would love it if you were to address yourself, here's what you could say, if you had knowledge, the parameters, the analysis that the government was running, when it decided to abolish the Office of Drug Abuse, because I guess, when the government is doing some kind of restructuring or shut-down agency, it has to have some kind of good analysis, based on which agencies it's going to put together, which agencies to completely disband, which agencies to transform, so I'm curious about, here's what decision we're going to end the Office of Drug Abuse. Coliga Celić is in one debate about our law, he seems to have told me and it is quite right, Croatia if she is recognized in the world, in this part of the health system, it is that we are top experts in the transplant, which we have also violated this image unfortunately, by inert and so on, so on. And secondly, it's in the fight against addiction. And now what I would not like, if it were to happen, that the abolition of this Office of Drug Abuse contributes exactly the opposite of what we can be proud of, not only in Croatia, but in the whole world, where we are mentioned as an example, which is in the fight against addiction. And secondly, I'm sorry that through this law, what we have proposed, you have not made it possible to grow, you have opened the door to grow medical hemp in the Republic of Croatia. Our government, 2014 or '15. For years, she secured using hemp, then, cannabis for medical purposes. Although cannabis is available today, as my colleague Strenja Linic said, not as a medicine, but as a means that in some way, reduces suffering, primarily in diseases, mononucleosis, AIDS, in some cancer treatments, it is still expensive and doctors are very reluctant to prescribe prescriptions for medical cannabis, and a lot of them, people from my environment, who unfortunately suffer from malignant tumors, who have incredible pains still obtaining medical hemp, i.e., cannabis, i.e. oil, on the black market, on the white market, outside of the Republic, and the question is whether we can in any way enable this assistance, medical assistance to our patients and sick citizens to be as accessible as possible. And it's crazy that the Republic of Croatia imports medically, i.e., medical hemp preparations, i.e. cannabis from Canada, when we think that maybe, if we took that role ourselves as a state, we could do this, I'd say it's a colloquial medicine, because it helps people make the medicine available to our citizens, it means that it's almost medically controlled, not getting it on the black market to be uniform, to be cheaper and to be more accessible. Unfortunately, very often this topic is combined, then linked to drug abuse, with increased consumption, marijuana, etc. etc. However, it is not good to have a debate like that, but I think that the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to producing our own products. I mean, maybe it was one way to save the functioning of the Immunological Institute. I'm not an expert at it, but maybe the Institute of Immunology in the Republic, could produce it, so it's not, it's not going to produce everyone, in clean air, plant fields, grow medical hemp, no. It is produced in the pharmaceutical industry under strictly controlled conditions and the state has all the control powers, from cultivation to preparation. Anyway, not a bad bill, but there's still room for, not just repair, but for the avant-garde.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124725	Thank you. Now we move on to individual debates, it's Mr. Tomislav Sauch's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the adoption of this law, I believe it contains many good solutions, primarily I think it is very good to give a new, faster mechanism to the state, so that it can deal with the fight, i.e.. so she could fight better, those so-called. space freshener, i.e. ... Cannabis and all other types of new drugs and new substances, because, realistically, this market is extremely flexible and fast and very well-known to those who produce and place such products, know how to use every hole in the law, and so also the situation that simply certain substances, simply at some point is not listed on the list of controlled substances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is simply inadmissible, too, that such funds are sold in stores, no matter what they are called, which are at that point, practically, as the colleague said, practically de facto legal and that puts us in a position, that young people, schoolboys come in contact with such means and that they suffer from it. I think there was even one fatal case last year, and that's just inadmissible for us as a state, that's all. The state must have all possible elements, mechanisms to react very quickly, to put a certain substance on the list, and even if it is later eventually proven that it was wrong but it is better to have the possibility of quick action, so later on I think about what is something small, possibly some material damage to the other side of the health and life of young people actually, I mean all people, but we are primarily talking about the most vulnerable group of young people. What I also think is good in this law is that legalizing the full use of the whole stem means industrial hemp. So it's a very useful plant that can have countless uses in production. So here I think that the last time my colleagues from the Living Wall had their proposal for a law that talked about a similar theme which today obviously didn't talk about how many products can be produced from industrial hemp, so they brought it here, I think I remember some kind of being there in the game and baskets and all kinds of products. And since they were pointed out that it was and part of our meaning of tradition, the production of industrial hemp products, I think it's a good thing that now it's access to industrial hemp, so the whole plant is legalized, and I think it, as it says in the proposal, will put our producers in an equal position with its colleagues from the European market and that it will enable it to improve and support agricultural production that is absolutely in our interest to all. So that excess, that other part of the plant just doesn't throw away. I think it's absurd so far that one part of the plant that contains negligible traces of THC must simply be destroyed. I mean, that's what I don't know, for example. You can get opium from the macaque, so we use the macaque every day for food purposes. Here I am here today in the House one of the macaw cakes I ate and it was very good. And I think now if that same logic were applied, then none of us could eat that nice macaque cake today. So I'm very glad that this has happened, in some ways I'm thinking even listening to my fellow living wall, so I'm sorry that they're not here today to stop this from accepting it as some kind of a little victory of their own. And that's when I was saying when that law of theirs didn't go through that it shouldn't do drama because it's important that these things are being talked about and that in time, the public and society and ultimately, I mean society as the political corps that we end up being responsible for, and that one day there's going to be change in that field. And I'd like to, I won't be too long, I'd just like to say, here's to continuing your discussion since the last time, I don't think I would be, I wouldn't be consistent with myself if I didn't say that I should keep talking about legalizing marijuana for personal use. And we have an example of Canada, a big, serious country that I don't think we can, I think it can be like some example in which it has legalized marijuana that has become in some way the leader of that part of the world now and I think it will show experience, but now it shows that they have great benefits from how it means that it simply moves that one particular substance from the growth of organised crime into an orderly framework, a legislative framework where quality can be monitored, where it is sold under very controlled conditions. After all, consumers, they know what they're buying, they can't be poisoned and, of course, there's a country that has to confirm such substances and they mean the right to consume. And I don't think it's the least important thing to do with taxes. I think it's a trend that's inevitable, so he'll be like he said and my esteemed colleague Cellic, who is... I know about matter and doctors, and it's one trend that's about to spill over into Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just wouldn't want us to be in a position to be last again or be second or third or fifth. One who will be the first will benefit from that. And I know that might sound this bad, but we're a tourist country, and I think that's something that when we look at the Netherlands, when we look at their results, I don't think it would be, surely, that it wouldn't hurt in that context of our tourist drive. Anyway, here's what I've mentioned all this like it's not someone's fault because the last time I've been misunderstood by some certain institutions, so if they didn't get me wrong, I'm opening this thing up, I'm just putting it in one kind, I'm opening a discussion about it. I think there's so much to discuss. And what I think would certainly be good to go, to see if there's a chance that somehow those who are really sick, who need medical marijuana, ie. the medical THC to enable in some way or at least to see if it can be tempered by the policy of punishment that it does not happen that someone who has really serious health disorders who is somehow forced to grow this THC for themselves means preparations, i.e. To grow marijuana so that such a person is not treated like the last criminals, not to be put in jail, not to be sentenced to some kind of prison sentence. So medical marijuana preparations are hard to access, extremely expensive and have proved to be useful to people. And I think at least there, if anything else that the state should show one sensitivity. Of course, it's not in the courts that means they're conducting a punishment policy beyond what the criminal law says, it's on criminal law, it's up to us as legislator to go in the direction of such changes. I don't think it should ever happen to us again that someone who's really sick is going to end up in jail. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124727	Thank you. You have two replicas. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124728	Comrade Sauch, you inspired me to remember the macaque. Yes, it is true and remember probably many or have read somewhere that in the early 20th century that in pharmaceuticals, then the drug industry was actually an esteemed drug. And one of the biggest exporters was actually Yugoslavia, Macedonia then within Yugoslavia, whose opium was, in fact, one of the most wanted, not only on the European market, because it was first purchased by all European pharmaceutical companies, and after the 20th century, American companies took over. So there's an industry, there's a market, it's up to the Republic of Croatia to decide if they're going to import hemp medicine or if they're going to produce it themselves, so they might as well export it. I mean he's here, he exists, he's used. Now it's just a matter of what's in our interest in all this together and how we'll use it wisely. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124729	Mr. Sauch, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124730	Dear colleagues, I absolutely agree with you, I think that if anything else, at least, means that market, so medical marijuana could be something that, you said yourself, something that could eventually save or be a pandan for a new immune institution, so that could be, it could be something that we could be in the world and recognize. And in the end, it's an industrial branch that could benefit from, and just here, let me just refer to what you said in your presentation, abolishing the Office of Drugs, and I'm also sorry that the scissors got caught right there. However, what I must say is that I am glad that if the Office of Drugs had already had to be abolished, that at least then it was not attached to the MUP, with all due respect, I think, I am glad that it was attached to the Croatian Institute of Public Health and that was discussed even before X years ago, it was not a topic since yesterday, so at least it remained somewhat removed from the repressive system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124731	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Sauch, I think it's good to discuss, as you said yourself, that this debate can go in several directions. But when we talk about medical cannabis, we need to be careful there because sometimes it seems to be a miraculous medicine that treats everyone. So, based on study studies, there are exact diagnosiss, the larger mention of multiple sclerosis and terminal phase malignancies, reflective forms of epilepsy in children. But it depends again, so from which angle we look. So, I'll just mention it, it's a common objection that's not for no reason, for the pharmaceutical industry, that she has a very important profit. And here you should also consider the question of profit because the tobacco industry is the one most investing in shares, so, after legalisation in Canada, the owners of Malbor bought 45% of the shares from the Kronos Group. Because they want to invest in that area. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124733	Thank you very much. Mr. Sauch's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124734	Dear fellow, we had this discussion the last time, no one claims THC is some kind of universal drug and some kind of magic preparation, I'm just saying that there is, I mean, otherwise there wouldn't be any idea of medical marijuana, so obviously that helps. I was just talking about, of course, being very careful, I was just saying that today we have a situation where people who are really seriously sick, who find themselves growing marijuana themselves, being treated like the worst criminals, dealers, growers, and getting serious punishments for it. I just said that we should consider leaving enough space for the court to, when assessing each case in person, consider whether someone is sick as an easy circumstance and whether it gives him the opportunity to give the court penalties that are lighter than those that would be given to someone who is not sick and who has owned a certain amount of plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124735	Let's move on with the debates. - Mrs. Crescent. Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124736	Thank you. Well, here's what I'm going to do, and my colleagues are going to commend this bill, because really after years of switching hot potatoes whether they use the entire industrial hemp or not, our agricultural producers finally came to their senses, and they can really use it the way they used it back in the '90s. We who have some roots in Slavonia know that grandfathers and grandparents still used that industrial hemp and from them were both webs and canvass and clothing, and that I don't count what they don't. Among other things, they used it for heat at the time. What makes me extremely happy is that you have dealt with new psychoactive substances and that they have finally obtained their legal framework in a way that they can detect and register and, among other things, sanction those who produce them. Why do we care, my predecessors, my colleagues talked about it. The largest number of consumables is young. They're mostly teenagers for 15, 16 years, and we need to know that all these psychoactive substances work, I'd say, destroying their brains. In particular, they act on their cognitive functions, memory, thinking, and unfortunately, of these young people often, unfortunately, they destroy them, I would say, life, not just health. What counterpart Celic pointed out, fatal outcomes were also recorded. So, all of the new, conditionally said, new drugs, which are extremely available to young people, which are online, which are cheap, which can only be ordered by one click of the mouse and which sometimes we don't even know where they come from, or what they contain, or who distributes them, so this is really worth it because in this way, I believe, you will be able to get at least some new forms that are on the Croatian market today. As far as medical cannabis is concerned, I think we've talked about it many times on various committees and through several proposals from other colleagues' laws. I think we can all agree on one thing. Medical cannabis can and should be used in given indications. You mentioned that doctors are not always willing to prescribe recipes. I think the profession at the moment when it makes a decision and there's enough scientific evidence and enough study that it will finally tell its final court and that at that moment we won't have to talk about it in the parliamentary mountain range or on the committees. A colleague of Strenja Linic said very clearly, so it is not a medicine that can be used as a substance used in symptomatic therapy and how it should be accepted. That the price may be inadmissible at the moment, we can agree on that. I believe we can find some space where that price can be corrected. Of course it's all a matter of time and a question of consummation. I didn't want to look back on saying recreationally use marijuana, but a colleague of Sach's encouraged it, so here I am going to look back a little bit. So my personal view is that marijuana is currently not to be legalized for such a form of consumption. For the very simple reason that I have mentioned as well as for others, new psychoactive substances our children are most often consumption marijuana and is unfortunately available. But I'm afraid if we legalize it, we'll open up a new pool and we'll open up to those who might not use it, too, that they'll start using them. What makes me like a mother and let's go as a doctor in that I'd say more to suffer if it upsets how and where our children can get to all of that. Do we educate them enough, is it, are our educational institutions, is our family sufficiently educated in this so that we can point out all the negative sides of marijuana? You know very well when it started with a medical cannabis that the media wrote about it as a rescue cure. He got the impression then in public that cannabis is harmless and that it can be used. Unfortunately, the children are curious, but fortunately, too. In this case, unfortunately, they will reach out to these drugs, primarily after marijuana because it is the most accessible to them. That's what their society is using, so they're gonna try it, too, and it's gonna happen with some new drug. And that's why I personally think that as much as we work to prevent it, sometimes it's not enough and it's not enough and I think we need to empower it as much as we can to prevent and educate our young. Because what happens often, and what I often ask myself and as a doctor, we currently have two major addictions, smoking and alcoholism. On it, we spend enormous amounts of health money on them, spend a lot on treatment, on all the complications that this causes and whether we need another third addiction to which we will use even more. Of course we're not going to say now, here's what's going to be addictions and we're going to have the biggest and worst state in the world. Of course not all young people will reach for drugs, but let's think about it first and go as a responsible society to treat our young and I think that we can educate our young people here with a good education and prevention, especially our teenagers who, who think they're 15, 16, 17, 18 years old, are the smartest and that they just know everything. And you yourself mentioned in this discussion family are those who suffer, not only do young people suffer because if a young man reaches for marijuana at the age of 16, at the age of 20 he enters the world of heroin, with 21 years of intravenous addiction, we no longer have nothing from him, we will, they will go through rehab, treatment, but unfortunately his life is ruined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124737	Thank you, we have four replicas, the first line has Mr. Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124738	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Josic, 10% of those who consume a certain psychoactive substance will become addicts, it can be a lot and it can be little, depending on how we look. However, when we talk about degrees of criminalisation, decriminalisation, we now have the fact that Canada and 9 federal states together with the US capital have legalized cannabis. And it's an area that's going to be much more, much more debate in Croatia and around the world, but the question, you're a gynecologist, a question of the influence of marijuana in women who are massingly now in America because of the nausea and vomiting they take in an eminent magazine, is the question of whether marijuana will be, whether cannabis will be a new thalidomide, I don't want to scare the public here, but now that mass use has started, we can only now see and see the adverse consequences that can be related to cannabis.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124739	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124740	I thank you that you are right, unfortunately the study does not have enough to be sure and to say how harmful it affects the fruit. But the fact is that mothers who consumed marijuana give birth to children of less birth weight, and several fatal outcomes of these pregnancies, these fruits, have been reported. In fact, we do not know exactly how the consumption of marijuana will affect our pregnant women or their pregnancy. What we know from the polls that were conducted in America, that pregnant women who used marijuana were very satisfied that they had neither nausea nor vomiting, and many of them were known to have healthy children and to be good. But you're right there, there's always a percentage that we can't influence and we can't guarantee that everything will be okay. There's always a certain 10% that unfortunately is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124741	Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I share my opinion and attitude with you both as a mother and as you especially as a doctor and I as someone who has spent your whole life working with young people and as an educational worker, and with young people at different levels from high school students to students, and I agree with you when you say that and when you advocate the view that it is not good to legalise psychoactive substances and light drugs for recreational purposes because you think that this is an easy path towards addiction, I absolutely agree with you and on the trail of what your colleague Celic says, 10% of those young people who try are on the path towards addiction. If it were 1%, if it were 0.1%, it would be very much, and as far as I'm concerned, I won't be able to tell you all the way, but I'm going to replicate someone else so I don't take the time, I'm not done. I'm sorry I didn't sign up for an individual hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124743	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124744	Thank you. ... We're very close to what we're dealing with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is that my opinion? There is very little of the classic marijuana on the market, and more often our children will come into possession of one marijuana that is genetically engineered and has much higher values, a higher percentage of THC. In some police reports there are that up to 30 times bigger and that's what's really bothering me and that's why I'm not willing to get us into that marijuana legalisation path yet. The fact is, as counterpart Celic said, Canada is on its way, Uruguay is on its way, it's going to spill over to Europe, but it's only a matter of time, if we're going to be ready for it as a society then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124745	Mr. Bunzak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124746	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josic, I think this comparison of marijuana to tobacco is not good for a simple reason because as far as I know, people do not die of marijuana. I don't know, maybe you know as a doctor whether oncology or somewhere else people come with marijuana cancer but I don't know it. I also don't know that it develops addiction. According to official statistics conducted by EUROSTAT, 14% of EU citizens consume marijuana. Do you think 14% of Europe's citizens are addicts, patients or don't know what? I just don't think that's true because if the Croatian state spends something, it's some kind of minimum means, in any case close to those spent on the treatment of cigarettes and tobacco products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124747	Answer, ma'am. Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124748	Comrade Bunjac, just because something doesn't cause a fatal outcome doesn't mean it's not dangerous or we won't OD's, that doesn't mean it's not dangerous. There are people here who do a lot more addictions than you and I do. I think they made their observations very clear here. If it's 10% of those who are going to develop addiction, it's pretty much a lot to me and you need to know that addiction is not treated as virosis and it doesn't last for 2 to 3 days, but it takes me to say, my whole life. And yet some money will be spent on it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124749	- Mrs. Crescent. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124750	... Yes, I absolutely agree with that, with your statements that it is actually in our society and in our education and education, and even in the whole system, it is very important to take care of prevention, and it is very important that we include all possible resources that we need. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] However, it seems somewhat too easy for me before, your statement that you are so against legalizing marijuana because it will, in the same way we are now investing, powerful or enormous means in treating people against alcohol and tobacco addiction, right, that it will also come and have to fight in the same way if the legalization and use of marijuana is legalized. I don't have time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124751	Thank you. Answer, ma'am. Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124752	Here's your thanks. I just told you why it bothers me and why I don't think we're ready to legalize marijuana. What I said, yes, I really don't think we need another third of the drugs that we'd have to devote to and to which we would have to isolate so much. What I think before we legalize something, we should first educate and prevent because only when we explain to young people what it is and what way it is, do I feel that we will be a society that is ready for us to enter into the legalisation of something that really today Croatian society is not ready to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124753	We're moving on with individual debates, Mr Tomislav Liposcak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124754	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. At first, I must say that I welcome these amendments and additions to the law, especially in the part where we finally define the concept of industrial hemp itself and actually allow the use of the whole plant where we now include the use of complete stems in a whole series of industries, starting with construction, textile, paper and many other industries. So far, legal solutions have been allowed to use means only seeds, primarily for food or food for animals, while the rest of the plants have been destroyed, which has been defined specifically by the rules and regulations. Why am I saying all this now? In fact, I'm going to tell you on a concrete example, over the past year and a few days I've contacted a part of the ministry or representatives and the Ministry of Agriculture and Health with questions about the possibility of using exactly the stems of industrial hemp. Because in my own Ogulinic area, and I believe in many other areas, we have had a series of questions and actually the will and will of the producers themselves, but also of investors to start producing and processing products from industrial hemp, primarily products from the stems of industrial hemp. And then we came in accordance with the legislation so far in one absurd situation where we actually had a law that wouldn't allow the use of the trees of industrial hemp, and moreover he prescribed that it had to be destroyed while on the other hand we testified that in fact we were building complete housing blocks, residential buildings, and even just a few miles from this high home of materials that were made just from the stem of industrial hemp, whether it was building or insulating materials with important things that these materials were produced somewhere else, so outside of the Republic and they were tied up. So we produced something, we had it in our country, but because of the legal solution, we had to destroy it, and on the other hand, we actually imported it, and we paid it dearly. In addition to putting our industrial hemp producers in a level playing field with other producers in the EU, it is much more important that we actually enable a much wider and much more useful use of the product than the industrial hemp plant which is and we have heard in today's discussions for many years and in history has been used for many other things, for many industries. So we can testify that by the middle of the 19th century or by the end of the 19th century, virtually all the books, all the textbooks were made just out of hemp or flax, 80% of the clothing was actually a phenomenon and the mass use of cotton was made of hemp. The hemp itself as such is not a demanding culture, and we see that there is an increasing demand for it. And this is actually an opportunity for a number of manufacturers, for smaller producers, for the OPGs to actually have numerous and agricultural areas that are now abandoned to bring their purpose to the original, and in particular there is an important emphasis of those producers that are located in rural areas. So this proposal actually puts the hemp back on, you could say a big door back to the Croatian fields, where until some war years it was and occupied one we could say a significant part of the production. And trust me on these legal changes, we're opening up a number of possibilities. And I will make a personal effort in my environment and I believe that many others will do so to take advantage of all the opportunities that we are given to maintain and maintain agricultural production and farmers themselves, especially in our smaller and rural areas and areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124755	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debate. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Djujic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124756	Thank you, Vice President. Well esteemed colleague, you mentioned the absurdities we had so far before the amendment of this law on industrial hemp and that we were, in fact, not to be produced in Croatia and that it is correct here and it is true and I welcome it and I am glad, however, still remains one absurd and it is about medical hemp. So it can't be produced in Croatia, it can't be used, we still have to import it. So I'm very sorry that in correcting these absurdities, we haven't corrected all the absurdities. So we have some completely illogical things that one absurd is correcting and the other is not, but I'm glad that you HDZ people accept that because five years ago you were also speaking out against this industrial hemp and you were fighting against it and now I see that you're praising the correction of these illogicalities, so I hope that recently you from HDZ will welcome and correct the illogicalness of allowing cultivation and medical hemps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124757	Thank you, too. Mr. Liposchack, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124758	Well, yes, exactly what we heard in earlier discussions and to correct this absurdity as we all call it, it was necessary to bring one inter-resort actually agreement that was not possible we heard even during last government, the government of SDP and here we finally came to an agreement where we allowed the use of the complete stem of industrial hemp. As far as medical hemps are concerned, I think that in the first place the final word should have a waistline. From what we have seen so far, there is still no need so great that such a single solution is made hastily and without detailed analysis. So I think when the waist gives its opinion that we will come to a satisfactory solution very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124759	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124760	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I was actually going to go into this presentation and say, in a way, positive things and somehow, so maybe with praise because it's actually a law that really entered the procedure as our proposal, the SDP club proposal, and of course we're really glad to have this debate. However, the debate that has now been going on has made me a little bit of a different approach, so I'm going to have to refer a little bit to it because somehow apostrophe in this one law and in this problem of apostrophe of women like those who are actually going to use or abuse certain substances somehow reminds me very much of the recent ads in Zet trams when it was very nice to say that women are and that if they take alcohol, if they drink that they are very easy and easy to get into sexual relations. So now it's also very easy to apostrophe that women or mothers, or future mothers, will take marijuana to relieve the nausea that they are. I don't know if it goes to prescription or not, since that medicine was taken before and it was divided into prescriptions, so gynecologists, the medicine you mentioned, were divided into prescriptions, until there were no side effects of the product. I would really like to take great care of women's protection of equality, dignity, and not to make any difference here, especially when it comes to any addiction. When it comes to any addiction, I would really like to concentrate on that and I think that we can find a consensus actually on prevention and that I agree with everyone on that trail, because that is, addiction, addiction is really one monster of our time, and I really think that we should take care of it. What, therefore, certainly and well in this law, is that it speaks of those things, which when we talk about drugs, especially new psychoactive drugs, that the law regulates and that the law becomes a framework in which it is easier to act, and also to act preventively. What's also good is when we talk about promoting that part of it has been regulated, and I think it's okay. I would also like to say that when we talk about promotions, to mention the promotions of other new addictions, and for example, I mention what was introduced as a new kind of addiction, it's betting that it becomes a certain way of regulated id and young people are not exposed to this kind of promotion, i.e., advertising, and I'm here recently, to know if others have noticed, just on television, exactly that kind of advertising, which I don't think are good at all. What I would like to point out in this presentation to the end, what I think is important, in addition to all this which is good, is what is not the subject, or what is not regulated through this law, but also in the comments of the bill itself, and in this debate so far, that is the use of medical cannabis. Why am I saying that? I'm saying because in a few replicas, there are several discussions that mention it, that even in your explanation, there are not enough strong, strong indicators in the area, so right now we don't have enough of these indicators, which would tell us that we should go into production, therefore, our own production of medical cannabis. I'd like to remind you here of the fact that what I asked you in the replica, what about the commission? The Commission, which then reached some conclusions and based on these conclusions, entered into the law, of course, the use of medical cannabis. But what is also said then is that the commission has made, I will also quote, a decision that it is necessary to consider new scientific evidence at regular intervals and, if new knowledge has taken place, to propose some additions or changes. Why do I say that? Because it wasn't done. You did not have an answer, of course, or you could answer, because you yourself said that you did not assess the same or necessary committee to meet. However, some other sources, some other data, suggest that there is a need for such a thing. So, on the side of the profession, they also come, information, about how important it is to do or continuously have a follow-up and then an analysis, an analysis of the functioning of the system. An analysis of the extent to which cannabis is used, for example. To what extent and who uses it, for which he uses it, therefore, for which he uses it. We know it's not a cure, that's what we said and we don't need to say, but it's equally important to know to what extent, medical cannabis makes life easier and the functioning of every man he's prescribed or who he can use, and unfortunately has a certain disease. Whether it's multiple sclerosis, whether it's ADIS, whether it's terminal cancer patients. But without that analysis, it's hardly a conclusion. That's why I think it's very important, and I'm surprised that you didn't answer your calls to this particular committee. I don't advocate at all at this point, and I don't know who it is, but I'm worried about the fact that you don't have information about it and that somehow you haven't, or those decisions that were made at the time, you didn't respect them. So to say that something is not needed or something is not sought or something is not necessary in some way irresponsible because before such statements really must be or stand a very good, well-founded analysis of what and how. What can also be seen or read is that these are, therefore, currently valid or currently available preparations expensive, many are extremely expensive and that just or subsidising by the state or its own production may enable greater availability and facilitate access to resources that will contribute to the quality of life. What, here, I can apostrophe then what they are, which is often spoken and spoken, so obviously it's still worth it today, so Alana, the line from Alan Ford -- it's better to be legally alive than legally dead. But I hope he comes to some changes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124761	It seems that counterpart Celic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124762	I'm sorry. 238 my colleague insulted me and humiliated me because she told a complete lie, so I wasn't talking about women addicts at all, I was talking about pregnant women, pregnant women are usually healthy women who take in America who go to dispensary and buy without any prescription or anything, buy marijuana, I called on an article that was published in an important medical journal about the potential harmfulness of cannabis in the first three months of pregnancy, so I didn't talk about any sexisms you mention, I know that you're trying to be a modern socialist But we from HDZ are also in 2019. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124763	Thank you very much. I estimate he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, so let's go to the replicas. The first is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124764	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Alfirev. I didn't hear what, this thesis that you've been through, I haven't heard that in the exhibition it was mentioned, so I think it's probably something wrong here, but what I've heard is that an eminent medical journal in the British Medical Journal gave a study that 3 hours after consumption of marijuana, twice the probability of a car accident, and it's even wanted as soon as possible to find an adequate device to measure the concentration of marijuana on the roads since some pandan alcoholist, since it can measure the concentration, whether it exists, but it can't be measured in which shifts there is, and I think, unfortunately, that often these fellows of some statement would have succumbed to actually this kind of meter. Of course, it's not about you, it's about the general, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124765	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124766	Thank you. Here, I'm already scared. My colleague, you're back again, you mentioned marijuana and you're talking about marijuana. And what about alcohol, which is with certain types of medicines, which are also taken, which are also managed by the car, under which statements are also given and which are also the cause of various behaviors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124767	The next replica, respected MPs Zeljke Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124768	Thank you. So here I have again as a woman and as a gynecologist to comment on this once again because I think, I think we went in one wrong direction. So no one at any point in my life at least, has put pregnant women here in one basket to do something on purpose, so we're talking about studies, something that's just going to happen, which we're just going to know in the future. What we know, so these are just articles that tell us about some cases where it's very clear that all those pregnant women who consumed marijuana in the first trimester that covered this article were born with children of low birth weight, or several intrauterine deaths were reported. So, I wouldn't get any more tensions here on the male-female rights principle, or, as anyone treats who, I think, pregnant women here. We should put their... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124769	Thank you, esteemed Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124770	Thank you, colleague Josic. Yes, but again, you forgot again the prominent and influence of alcohol that some pregnant women also take during pregnancy. The impact of tobacco, therefore, smoke cigarettes, so, pills maybe. So we have, do we still have a little hypocritical how much we're going to be, and how much of it is invested in advertising these funds that are legal to us, and then we say about marijuana that it's going to be that drop that's going to pour the glass because above, after this, we can't. So, alcohol, cigarettes, we tolerate it, but we can't go on, no. Society isn't ready right now. Positive things, like medical cannabis, we still can't talk about it enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124771	The next replica of the respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124772	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm glad to hear that some of them are in the HDZ in 2019. Unfortunately, yesterday we saw that some are still HDZ in the last century, but well, at least you're making some progress, part by piece. My colleague Alfirev, I wouldn't share it either, so when it comes to these things, women, men and pregnant women, not pregnant women, it can't be done, you know what's interesting? It is interesting when it is argued that marijuana or cannabis are not good, then we call for studies, scientific journals, etc. There are studies and magazines that speak exactly the opposite of those to which they are called. We know how to do it. There are right scientists, there are left scientists, everyone writes from their own angle, everyone writes their own point of view. There are countries in Europe, say, here's the Netherlands, which has legalized marijuana, not only medically but completely. And we have experience there, which is where we're surprised. Well, it wasn't marijuana that came yesterday that we didn't know the consequences. We know more what's going on than using marijuana, than e-cigarette. For example, those who suck a USB stick, maybe their children are green-eyed, and for marijuana we know what can happen, so it's pretty hypocritical all that stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124773	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124774	Thank you, colleague Giujic. You're very much now. So, you pointed out again what I was saying, that it's a little unusual to push so hard against, at this point, legalizing marijuana, and at the same time not to speak in so much the harmfulness of alcohol and cigarettes, especially when it comes to, because for these things very much and we know what I can do. So such a strong struggle, however, speaks about how present it may be, perhaps fear of not only fear for the future or for the citizens only, but there are obviously some other things that are in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124775	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124776	I thank Mr. Chairman, a few more thoughts that I have not said in the previous debate, once again would have returned to the situation, if we were actually facing new trends and new addictive addictions today, especially these new psychoactive comrades and trends in the reduction of heroin addicts have been present for many years. It's very important to us, so that's where we've shown quite well, that we can fight these addictions and hold a number in some way, under some control, because then they're not left behind after certain treatment, street and criminal mileage. So as of 2014, up to today, the number of new heroin addicts has been decreasing and now it's about 200. But that stagnation is present throughout Europe and the United States. It is also important to know that practically in 2000 40% of those who were first treated were heroine addicts, today it's only about 5%. And inside Croatia, we have different regions, where the proportions of those who are addicts are quite different. Today in Croatia from 15-64 if we look at this share of the population, 248 per 100 thousand are addicts, and in 7 counties, this number is much higher, these are, is known as Zadar County, there is practically twice 496 per 100 thousand, Istrian County, Sibenik Kninska, City of Zagreb, Primorje goranska, Split Dalmatian and Dubrovnik Neretvanska, 7 counties. And already that's actually an indicator where it directs us, where we actually need to focus our activities. Because all of this we wouldn't be saying, and actually the point is not all prevention, the prevention that we're investing in, which is about to be spent in the treatment and prevention of 800 million kn, through a four-year term, 30% of it goes to prevention, but whether we're focusing on the right things, and whether all of these policies are coherent, means everything that we really need to act on. You must know that you among the prisoners among them are 6000 and something in our prisons, 6800, 19% are addicts. They still manage to have access to drugs within the system itself. So, what's important and what I've already said, especially, I'm sorry that we've only joined this Office for the fight against drug abuse and drug abuse, and we've only reduced it to that medical, or health care part, because they've been going through and doing their strategies and policies, and the Ministry of Justice has participated, which is very important, because we need to do a distinction from those who really take 1 joint, in relation to those who are big dealers. But also the Ministry of the Interior, which should be intercepted by all those who do. And that's why I'm sorry that what I had planned for that office, which is the coherence of politics with other addictions, we didn't end up doing. This has been on many occasions, speeches and on my Committee on Health and Social Policy. Because addictive behavior, addictive personalities, are what today becomes the biggest problem, addicts are means other than drugs, gambling addicts, alcohol addicts, tobacco addicts. About tobacco, perhaps at least they, primarily health care and the environment of damage, but addictive behavior cubes and alcohol destroys our society, destroys our entire family, family as a whole. There are inconceivable consequences that grow up in such families and create a pattern of behavior, which is definitely passed on. And the fact that this should be united has actually been done by many countries. Here, for example. In Portugal, you have a CK, which means an intervention service to addictive behavior and addiction. Along with drugs, they also expanded their activity in Spain, and there is a government delegation for the national drug plan, which has gained other addictions. In Poland, the National Office for Drugs Prevention, covers and problems of the cube, in Italy, policy department against others at the Council of Ministers, with drugs,... In Lithuania, the government's drug control office extended its mandate to drugs and alcohol. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what we all need to pursue, means, protection of public health, reduction of crime, the resolution of health and social consequences resulting from drug use and other means of addiction, and this should be our goal, our goal, in order to have a healthy population and a healthier population. And that's why I hope there may be a hearing that some kind of contact still exists with these ministries, that these policies will be comprehensive. As far as medical cannabis is concerned, I've already said mine, so I personally prescribed it as a cure for my patients because it definitely reduces the symptomology, especially those who suffer from diseases that are at some terminal stage, the type of brain tumor. But the fact that this is something that is inaccessible in the Republic of Croatia, it is not acceptable for me because I say it directs and hardly ill people towards buying on an illegal market, and then they buy things, buy that cannabis and those oils that have an entirely unknown content and percentage of cannabis itself, but also other ingredients that are sometimes toxic. For this reason, the Ministry in this proposal of the Law should have thought about how to regulate it, we in the Republic of Croatia can, as our colleague said, do in fact good and our economy, as we are now going to do with this complete stem that you have included, and that means that we are producing safely and quality within our system, and then we are putting ourselves on the market and on some we are actually ensuring that ours, ours, are seriously ill, have access to it, at acceptable prices with certain categories definitely, that they should be able to get it without any compensation because it is still a medicine that relieves symptoms. We have many medicines that don't treat, but they also relieve symptoms, so this should go in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124777	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Strenja Linic, I think there is no reason to worry that institutions will not continue to cooperate because they are simply tied to each other. The Ministry of Health cannot work independently without being associated with the Ministry of Health. Likewise, I don't think it's justified that your fear that you will not pursue your current plans for the Office. The Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has adopted its Annual Plan for 2018 based on a whole series of documents and, among other things, on the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Similarly, on the basis of the plan, the action plan to combat drug abuse in 2015, 2017, as well as the strategic plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a two-year period. It also refers to 2017, so I don't think there's any reason for this office not to continue with its conduct, as planned. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124779	The Honorable Representative of Srenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124780	Thinking about that it would be just one department within the Croatian Institute of Public Health, so only one department, I'm interested in what kind of communication would be at the level of resolution, so from the Ministry of Justice and the level of communication it was now when the Government's Office was separated from the level of government and then, in a way, as a superior, communicated equally with these three ministries. It is now an Office that deals with prevention and will likely have a flow, but will contact those who deal and treat, but the Ministry has its departments, also the judiciary, also the MUP, they will do their part. This way has also enabled faster flow of information, but much clearer from the level of government harmonising the strategies needed to keep them as well as the good fight against so far. drug abuse. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124781	The next debate of the respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124782	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here, I'll do it real quick. My colleagues and colleagues, this law is a good law because, not only because, this, it solves a lot of things, it has a certain part of the disadvantage, but I think it's good, and because most of the things that the SDP has proposed are right in its past government and through the initiatives of our representatives, so I'm glad you recognized it, that you accepted our proposals, I'm sorry that you didn't accept everything. What I want to point out is that it's a good solution about industrial hemp, that now it's allowed to use the whole stem, not just seeds, to allow, therefore, and produce the same. What I am particularly pleased with and what I would like to point out, which is that by adopting this law should finally put an end to those who, so I would say to kiosks or papers or shops, sell drugs to minors, who are declared under the so-called. space fresheners who have avoided restrictions and sales so far in various ways. We see that some media have been reporting this intensively, and I'm glad that this is exactly what these proposals are all about, and that should finally end, even though I would be even more rigorous here myself. So I would punish those traders who use the curiosity and ignorance of young people, literally bring them to death, punish them with a permanent ban on any work or occupation or activity if they find themselves selling such opiates and such drugs and doing what they've done so far, so, but this is also a good start that they'll be able to prevent, so here, I want to point out, it's very important and it's for me, maybe even in this Law and the most important item, and the most important problem that is being solved. Secondly, as far as medical hemp is concerned, I fully agree with Dr. I am not only aware of why production is still banned, or why medical hemp production is not allowed, but we are forced to import it, import it from Canada at expensive prices, that patients who need it have to pay dearly, and we are just coming up with these problems, which is now and others. Sneezing before me pointed out, it's that people who need it will buy it. If they are not able to buy it in Croatia or get it then they will buy it on the black market and pay it dearly. And that's why I think that's why we should have legalized it, but I'm actually optimistic because there have already been significant steps made here compared to the previous years, so I believe that they will soon take advanced steps and legalize or allow production and medical hemp. And once again I want to say, as I said before and besides, it's not hemp and marijuana and it's not something that just came up and something that we don't know what it is and that there's no experience in the world and in Europe that we should talk about right now needs to be explored, the consequences should be seen, the consequences are known, everything is known as it is. And it's simply a matter of progress or the year we're in, as my colleague Celic said before me, whether we're in 2019 or 2030 or we're somewhere long before we remember history, so let's remember the time of prohibition when alcohol was banned in America and so is with some drugs, so I'll say that to the opiates. So I believe that in the future there will also be a legalisation of marijuana. And here I am, like, a politician on the left, and I'm left-handed, and I don't have a problem with marijuana being legalized, even though I've never consumed it, and I've never tried it. But I don't have a problem with the use of it while on the other hand we have the hypocrisy of many politicians on the right who have consumed both the grass and some of the others intoxicated but are fighting it with a lot of speech. And they're the fiercest opponents, and that's not the way to do it, and I personally even know some of them who have consumed here, and now they're more to the right than HDZ, and they're the biggest opponents of it, but that's that, I guess, is human. But mostly what needs to be done is education, it's prevention, and then people when they're aware of all the harmful things then they can decide for themselves if they're going to use anything. Then a pregnant woman who thinks about her child and the future of her child in pregnancy will not consume alcohol or cigarettes nor will she consume or I don't know cannabis. And also those who are irresponsible or who are weak will consume alcohol and cigarettes, and this also damages pregnancy and damages throughout pregnancy, and yet we did not legally ban it. So it's a bit of a ticklish thing, but I think it's time that they're going to do their thing and we just have to be patient and wait and here I am patient and I believe that the HDZ in next year, maybe '20th, '21st still realize that the world is going forward, so maybe we're legalizing not only the production of medical hemp, but maybe we're going to legalize marijuana. Portugal makes a very nice living through tourism, the Netherlands and so on. We're a tourist country, so I think here it is and it could benefit our incomes and the development of our economy. Here's so much from me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124783	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas. She's the first respected Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124784	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Djujic, like this, I'm only going to take that part of the exposure, it was very interesting and there's really plenty to replicate, but the part that applies to medical cannabis. That's where I'd like to say, you said there's a lot of obstacles and one of the things you said is that, the price. So if we were to grow it, it would certainly be more favourable. I would also like to point out another problem that often those who, who could consume, or take medical cannabis but are not and are not available, mention as a problem that doctors reluctantly attribute to them, to prescribe it. And another problem is that it is made possible only by specialists and one of the proposals is to allow perhaps family doctors of family medicine And what really bothers me, that I resent this government is that they haven't done anything about it, either. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124785	The answer of fellow Djujic. Please, let's limit ourselves in time. Here's my colleague, Djujic. [[Intruder Alfirev: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124786	Thank you very much. Well, yes, I think that production would definitely have improved the economic picture of Croatia would have reduced the cost of the product. And when I say legalization of production, I don't think everyone in the garden should plant it and do it at home without any control, but here's what my colleagues used to say, so under strictly controlled conditions. Let's say why the Institute of Public Health would not produce in Croatia or any other institutions involved in this work would not produce medical hemp and that the state would control it and know exactly how and how it is controlled and that there is no abuse. And it's possible and it's feasible. And what you're saying is that doctors refuse, so of course because it's still a taboo topic with us even though the last few years have been more free to talk and medical hemp, the medical cannabis still sees marijuana, drugs, junkies, etc., and there the doctors are afraid and there should be funds for the education of certain doctors and that they, too, are reducing them and that they go into the story to see that it's not bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124787	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljke Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124788	Well, here's fellow Djujic, I think we can agree on education and prevention, and that's what we all agreed on. As a doctor, I think doctors will really agree here, yet we rely heavily on what science says and among other things medicine has relied on science many times and based on it. So I wouldn't be downplaying the articles of professional, professional studies or our professional magazines because there are scientists who don't even, I don't know now whether they're left or right, as I don't even know if my teachers are left or right, but I do know that they've taught me something. Well, I'm glad that medical marijuana is something that is as much of an area of your interest as mine, and I've been discussing it and I've given my opinion about it. You weren't there yet, but we'll all agree that our patients should be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124789	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124790	Thank you very much. My colleague Josic, I don't disrespect anyone. And when I say there are scientists, that there are, here we have, in this Parliament, a man who was a minister in your government who is a scientist, who is a doctor who thinks antifascism is a floscule, for example. The whole world knows antifascism is one positive thing. And he's a scientist and he does papers and he writes knowledge. Here he said that the Constitution is practically a piece of paper in which they write nonsense, here's about it, and it's a scientist and it's supposed to be some kind of representative document that, say, the whole of Europe sees that it's not like that. So I just want to say that there are scientific works, people who have some of their own worldview and that this part is not just a purely scientific question, but there are still little and worldview inside, and that then you should be invited, but you can't just take it into the cruelness of one scientific paper, that's all I want to tell you. So for every scientific paper I'm going to find another scientific paper, I'm going to find another scientific paper that will kill the thesis out of this. That's what I mean, I'm not a doctor, but I don't disrespect anyone. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124791	The next debate is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Like my predecessors, I will also support such a legal solution, such a legal proposal, just as the producers of industrial hemp in the Republic of Croatia welcome. They agree that such a legal solution will also be added value and will undoubtedly be an economy or agriculture. My colleagues had already mentioned before me how much a whole range of products are actually produced from industrial hemp, between 25 and 50 thousand products, bio-fuels, for example different food products, but I think it will be interesting and to remind, for example, that the first Levices were made of hemp or that Rembrandt or Van Gogh were painted on canvass made of hemp or that the sails of some of the largest sailboats were equally made of hemp. This is just one little cartoon and an interesting thing to remember what industrial hemp can do. It is equally good that the amendment of the law allows the use of the whole plant and that is what the producers themselves have welcomed. In the last few years in the EU and so on in the Republic of Croatia, it was important to warn about a system in the event of the emergence of new psychoactive substances, something was said by the promoters and colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the clubs, and when I talk about it, I want to pull a parallel with that real state and with those research that I did not create in this environment where we're going to ask who's left or right are already the facts in the Republic. When we talk about cannabis, then we need to know that last year, so in 2017, the use of cannabis in the Republic of Croatia as well as the rest of Europe was the most represented or most used illegal drugs. The amphetamines were in second place, and third, they were heroin addicts. In 2017, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, there were almost 5 times more men than women, and what is devastating when we talk about treated addicts in the Republic of Croatia, that their rate has increased slightly, but what we need to worry about is people aged 15-64. 7 County, I think one of the colleagues mentioned it in earlier discussions, has a higher rate of addicts than the Croatian average, unfortunately at the very top are Zadar, Istria, Sibenik-Kninska and the city of Zagreb. The situation is similar with the number of opiates-treated addicts, most of all in Zadar County and there is little but a different order, Istrian County, Sibenik-Kninska, the city of Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska. As in earlier years, if we look at some kind of educational structure, so we've heard of an age, it's a very low limit of starting to consume when we're talking about cannabis, it's about people with a finished high school, so it's not about people who can't either come or have opportunities to find out and in this kind of preventive sense know what can happen if they go ahead, cheers Vice President, if they start using drugs. Cannabis also takes up the largest share of the value of the illegal European market, and we must not interfere with that. Cannabis production has become so we can say the main income generator for what we know as organised crime. Crimes associated with cannabis account for about three quarters of all drug-related criminal acts. And estimates suggest that about 1% of adults in Europe use cannabis daily or almost daily. This is something that the European Research or European Drug Report for 2017 says. What concerns the most, regardless of what is created in some countries, so - called countries. a restrictive legal environment that still drug finds its way or is much faster than those that can put it in legal frameworks and thus limit its use. The main concern is the fact that drugs are available via the Internet and its various modifications. A drug that presents itself as something modified, something more modern and something better, and it can actually have serious and serious fatalities. There is, above all, increased concern about synthetic cannabinoids, so despite certain similarities in that pharmacological sense, drugs should not be replaced with cannabis products. Synthetic cannabinoids are often powerful substances that can cause fatal effects and should be particularly taken into account when talking about something that may be less harmful, and it is from drugs. There is also evidence that in parts of Europe such preparations are now consumed as cheap and powerful intoxicating agents. He mentioned someone in earlier discussions that this is particularly present in the prison system, so not only us, it's kind of a silent fact that drugs are available in the prison system and since they're cheaper products, they're more suitable for consumption in such systems. Looking globally, the European market is an important drug market, Croatia is not excluded even though we have a lot, if we can say so, much less bad results than other European countries. The European drug market provides locally produced drugs and drugs smuggled from other world regions, however, South America, Western Asia, North Africa, is an important source of illegal drugs and the country that exports or produces the most psychoactive substances is China. When everything can be produced in China on a vast market, drugs are produced, unfortunately. Some drugs and some precursors are transported through European roads to other continents. Putting precursors on the ban list, that's something that probably no country will ever catch up with or won't be able to win because drug manufacturers are very inventive and always manage to find new ingredients before any country can put them on the list of precursors. So what we have to bear in mind is that when we talk about drugs, about using cannabis, and in this context today's amendments to the law, we've touched some other topics as usual and we've expanded perceptions when it comes to drugs. We still have to work on education, we have to work on prevention, there are colleagues who, and the profession, who work daily and with such patients unfortunately and with treated addicts and that we have to keep in mind that drugs are something that did nothing good in any case, we have a lot of opportunities to see it in different family situations, in percentages of crime and in everything that is related to drug abuse. So I think it is important that what is also in the bill, that the order to ban the use of new psychoactive substances is adopted as soon as possible, so that what the minister has to bring in order in full terms of the word and this legislative proposal and all its amendments can be implemented in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124793	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124794	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, I'm glad you mentioned and listed these statistical indicators, these are actually the real facts, you were talking about 2017 where indicators point out precisely cannabis and then everything else is in order as the most used drugs, so cannabis, then amphetamines, heroin, etc. At the centre of attention is the cannabis and, of course, all of this is linked together with the increase in the rate of addiction, and that is precisely what I am stressing among the young people of the average age of 15, and all of this is combined with indicators of the ever lower limit of the start of cannabis consumption, and that is already after finishing high school, and that is what I, when I replicated to my colleague, is actually the way towards addiction, is it, everything is related to the increase in the number of crimes and everything else. I reiterate, therefore, the importance and you yourself have said education and cooperation with all competent institutions and remind me of the importance of school prevention programmes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124795	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124796	Thank you very much. You're right fellows, and you're working in the education system, this line is even lower, I said 15 years, somewhere even in some counties for 13 years, it's a devastating fact that cannabis is as accessible to young people as it is available and alcohol, regardless of what law they shouldn't have come to it at all, but apparently the law in its fullness is not being implemented, but it's not the subject that we're talking about today. What I wanted to say, therefore, is a young generation, it is a danger or it is an advantage internally, it is in this case a danger, can come up with any preparation that is offered as something good, as something improved, as something that is not dangerous and unfortunately we have had opportunities here in Zagreb to witness and death cases from the product so-called. fresheners that you could buy practically at the kiosk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124797	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124798	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Glavak, you have actually returned to the topic from the content of this law at the very beginning, but yet you, like other colleagues today, have spoken more about that medical marijuana and in fact its harmfulness to society, to the individual. I didn't hear and I followed the whole debate here today... My colleagues and neither on behalf of the club nor individually, in fact, how and how do you think they react... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who lost children in that drug world or those who have their own children who are actually addicts? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do they react to this debate? So every drug and one that's connected to medical cannabis is actually an initial capsule so that the child can drug what's true and that's what Mr. Celic said, he said that every 10th addict [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124799	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Buddy Babic, that's probably scary. And in those families that have such a terrible experience, there must be no excuse. It's an experience I wouldn't want to share with anyone, it's an experience that no one wants to share with anyone, and it's something that we can only ask these families about, and when we're loud when we want to say something or bring something, maybe we should hear both those people and those families that are faced with fears, the consequences of everything the drugs have afforded their families. We who, fortunately, haven't experienced it, can only talk about it at this level. In that regard, those who have not entered the world of drugs, that we can never bring them closer to them, nor make them available in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124801	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124802	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, none of us here know which one of us has experienced and who hasn't experienced what, that's the first thing. The other thing, what I'm saying is that even the consequences of people who in their family and in their environment have alcoholics and encounter alcoholism can also be devastating and horrible, so alcohol is allowed. You've been doing statistics here now, of course marijuana is the most representative in drugs because it's the cheapest. You denied yourself because later you said it was the most accessible. Well, of course, it's the cheapest. To buy, I don't know, a gram of heroin, you can buy a truck of weed, so that's why it's being sold like that and that's why it's so much and so the statistics are different. When I listened to your argument, I was so scared, I would now forbid it, I would ban it all again, what, medical and industrial hemp, and I would ban it all, because it's not exactly that bad, and we all said that these synthetic drugs and these space fresheners, it's regulated here. And that's a very good thing, but... [[Intruder: Thank you]] Weed isn't it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124803	Dear representative Glavak, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124804	I'm sorry, I thought I used my three, so, And thank you very much. [[Intruder: You can always answer]] Thank you very much, colleague Giujic, I'm glad you're worried and that's good. [[Agreement: You can always answer, you can answer, you can't just replicate]] If we are on a good path, at least a small dose of concern means that we were good and that we were credible in our discussions. Otherwise, your earlier debate seemed to me that you had some personal interest in maybe this, something else we're pushing through, so, I don't know, do you think you're going into some business, but I hope that's not the case?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124805	The next replica, the respected representative of Tomislav Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124806	Dear colleagues, you mentioned the share of marijuana in general, so that's the crime of drugs, so now that's exactly what I've been discussing before. If drugs were to be decriminalized, imagine what a blow would be to this particular crime mile, therefore, that would make billions of dollars for them lost. So, the way marijuana would get out of that market, the black market, I think that would lead to a tectonic disturbance of the drug market, and we would. The state would then, through regulation, make more income through taxes, and that means, anything that follows the legal sale of any intoxicating asset, for example. tobacco or alcohol. I agree that drugs are harmful, but I also agree that not everything can be generalized, that you can't just say so easily that marijuana is necessarily always a presurer for everyone else further. Addiction. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124807	The answer of the esteemed representative, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124808	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm not sure I'd save myself by legalizing. You know, organized crime doesn't always want to do legal business, you must also keep that in mind. So we can make a comparison, cigarettes are sold legally, but why is there so much black market? So, I don't rule out any, no other possibility, I'm just putting this open to discussion, just like colleagues in other parliaments do on these issues, so when we don't have any good studies, some good analysis, it can only remain in the debate for now, but I'm saying, those who want black money will find black roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124809	Next is the debate of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124810	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Not long ago, a few months ago, in this High House, there was a discussion of the Law on Indian Hemp of the Living Wall, which could have been summed up into three key points. One is the use of an Indian hemp stem, which has been banned so far. Two, use of hemp for medical purposes and three use of hemp for recreational purposes. At that time, the ruling majority rejected our bill, did not allow it to go to another reading because the Law was, as a matter of fact, very bad. Now that after a few months, they would still accept the first part of our law because now, like that part, it's genius. I'm really wondering how it's possible that one of those same MPs yesterday would attack the law and declare it a disaster, and today they're praising it. And here we see in fact that there's a classic sectarianism in action that doesn't matter what is proposed, but it matters who suggests it. I am quite certain that today the Government has come here and proposed and there are two other parts of the Living Wall Act to be adopted, so that the representatives of the HDZ would also say that this is all great and we would find arguments to accept the rest of the Law. So basically, representatives of the ruling majority are like dolls to cheer, what the government tells them to defend, they defend, what they say they attack, they attack, without real thinking, without some personality about what to talk about. I here want to repeat again once again why it is important to approve the production of Indian hemp for medical purposes in the Republic of Croatia. So it doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense that this hemp is legalized, but that it can only be imported. We have to ask logical questions. Why don't we produce our own if 1, such hemp would be cheaper, 2 if Croatia had any use for such production, Croatian producers would open some jobs, have more tax revenues. This is how all the profits obtained by selling hemp for medical purposes go abroad and worst of all, prices are so expensive that most citizens cannot afford it, so the price of oil from Indian hemp in pharmacy is from 2 to 7,000 cooks and it is clear that the vast majority of citizens cannot afford it or that they have to go back to the black market. For those of you who don't know, it's proven here in these eminent magazines that you mention, among other things, in medical circles, that Indian hemp not only helps with allergies, asthma, PTSD, multiplesclerosis but also helps with the most severe diseases such as AIDS and cancer. I quote the magazine, I won't, you know that better than I do what the level of that magazine is. As for the use of hemp for recreational purposes, we must once tell the truth and look at the fact that 14% of EU citizens consume marijuana. And it's just like that. That a lot of the market is unregulated, that unfortunately criminal groups enter the market, that it is a black market, illegal, and that is a much bigger problem than the consumption of marijuana itself. Let us not be hypocrites, we have far, far more difficult addiction problems in Croatia, and we allow such alcohol, 7,000 car accidents are caused annually by alcoholic drivers. One-third of the road deaths are caused by alcoholic drivers. I'm sure that far away is a smaller percentage of those or almost not even exist that are caused by death under the influence of marijuana. 2/3 of the cirrhosis of the liver people who die is caused by alcohol. Cigarettes better not even mention them. We have an addiction I don't know, gambling, 40,000 heavy addicts, people who destroy families, who lose their property, who also commit numerous crimes because of their debts, and that's like okay, that should be allowed. You won't ban and repression to solve this problem. Just as banning and repression will not solve the problem of alcoholism or the problem of smoking. But it has to be solved by education and by changing consciousness and put it under some control because as much light and age as it is, people have been drinking alcohol and will always drink it. And the state has to allow it and that the state allows people to drink alcohol doesn't mean that the state supports it. That doesn't mean that we who pass these laws also drink alcohol. I don't drink alcohol, I don't smoke, I don't consume marijuana. We have no personal interest in it but simply acknowledge the facts. That's the basic thing. Let's face it, and we're trying to make things worse than they are. What's the point of many young people ending up in prison, in police stations because of the use of different resources, that I don't know, allowing money to go to criminal groups, to form some kind of, I don't know, Balkan routes, yes, forming. He's going through drugs from Afghanistan for U.S. surveillance through Croatia. It wouldn't have gone safe, I guarantee you it wouldn't have gone if it didn't have political protection. And that political protection goes to the very top of state. The police are networked, the government is networked, and everyone knows that those heavy drugs in huge quantities go through Croatia more or less legally, but then the victim is being wasted, then Pedro is looking for problems, and these are people who have burned one or two joints and are essentially doing no harm to anyone, not even to themselves. We have two kinds of legislation in the world. What do we want? We want to get close to Saudi Arabia, Singapore? We want, I don't know, like in these countries, to shoot those who consume marijuana? Is that a solution? Or do we want to get close to the United States, Portugal, Spain, Uruguay, the Netherlands? Let's say Amsterdam has stable finances thanks to the legalization of marijuana. They have no problems like our cities that have no money. But I repeat once again, it's not about making money. If that were the goal, just the profit, then I'd be the first one against banning it rather than simply repeating it one more time, putting it under control. It's always been and always will be. Let's stop closing our eyes and stop by some false morale creating a criminal underworld. That's the whole point. And finally, I'm sure that sooner or later these remaining parts of the Law of the Living Wall will come to the agenda. They'll come simply because they're logical, because it's a trend in the world. HDZ had a policy that was conservative, a policy of petty steps, but that's their responsibility, time will show that we were right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124811	We have replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Sauche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124812	Comrade Bunjac, I fully agree with you on this part that those who burn the joint that absolutely no harm to anyone, that was what I was talking about in that first debate when you had the law. And I have to tell you that in principle I would be happy today and I would be proud because in some way, I have said that and before this is your little victory, if it hadn't been for your bill of law who knows if it would have been debated at all today. And the fact that, that's what I told you, that's what's gonna happen, so you've opened up a discussion, this topic has matured so far by the government, i.e. The ruling majority recognized it as benefit, so that part, one part of your law, and now it has translated it into its proposal. I don't think it matters who brought it, i.e. that we shouldn't look at it the way that... that you will not collect some points but that should be an important goal for you to achieve with your proposed law at the time, which is to legalize industrial hemp. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this second part you've been saying, I believe it will come to that, too, i.e. for that to come and time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124813	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124814	Thank you very much. Representative Sauch. So we support this law in the sense that an Indian hemp stem can be used entirely. Anyway, so we're not going for it, that's what HDZ wrote that's stupid. The contents are good. And this isn't the first time that the Living Wall has passed a whistle-whispering bill in the Assembly, neither would HDZ now propose its law. They're always divorced, they make a camel out of a good law, they make some kind of a slight shift, but good and a slight shift is a shift. I hope that in some future where the Living Wall will be participated in power, and all the tendency is that in a few years these issues will still be resolved much faster because man's life is too short to solve everything through evolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124815	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you may have asked a rhetorical question whether the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of legalising the cultivation of medical cannabis because it would thus make medical cannabis in pharmacyes more accessible, affordable and cheaper. Well, maybe someone just sees an interest in having him be, that they're just importing preparations from Canada, that he's not so available and that he's more expensive. Maybe it's in the interest of the pharmaceutical industry that then, in some way, the substitute for this substance prescribes some other drugs. I'm just wondering, I'm also asking a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124817	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124818	Thank you very much, most esteemed representative of the Voice. Well, it's a general trend in Croatia. We import moss, we import leaves, we import vegetables, we import fruit. Everything we can produce in Croatia we import. We're from a country that had this kind of production a few decades ago, becoming a classic rent state. So it's important for us to have a commission. We have politicians opening up import companies. Normally, it's not directly under his name, it's under some substitute name, but basically it's a trend. Somewhere abroad to buy and bring here, but it's a question of what we're accomplishing. We get, unfortunately, a lower quality of goods, a higher price, and the worst we do is close jobs, close jobs. Let's see, let's say with the Immunological Institute what we did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124819	Thank you very much for closing this debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124820	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z.E. 495. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse and other all objections and proposals will be adopted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 115 votes for and 11 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124821	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 365; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124822	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance. At its session on 29 June 2018, the Croatian Parliament adopted a proposal for a Law amending the law on succession. All observations, proposals and opinions given on the draft law have been considered and we have before us this final draft law, the normative part of the final draft law, and there are no substantive amendments to the bill except that Article 4 of the transitional provision has been recently improved. With this final proposal for a law, we propose to prescribe a way of handling a court or public notary in cases where the court cannot obtain an OIB of persons to whom the decision on succession relates in order to allow for the completion of the abandonment process and the adoption of an inheritance solution without the OIB of those persons. I must say, by now, we've had 500 to 700 cases of this kind a year when the court couldn't complete the desert procedure. Finally, we propose that, if the number of OIBs related to the decision on succession is not available, the court will obtain that information by official duty from the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration which is due within 8 days with the provision of the prescribed data, which is the information on the name, last name, date of birth or number of the identity card for natural persons or the name and home number of the legal person, shall provide information on the OIB. If the tax administration informs the Court of Justice of the inability to supply information about the OIB, the Court will make a decision on the succession without the reference of the OIB of the persons to whom the decision on succession relates and, instead of the OIB, it will include other available data available to them, which are data on the number of personal documents, the date of birth of the parents' name, citizenship and, for those who are married, their last name before marriage. In the last part of the final draft law in order to avoid doubts in practice, we propose to supplement Article 227(1) of the Law and to make provision for the obligation to deliver a valid solution on the succession of the competent land-booking court and, in addition, we propose to delete the application for the protection of legality and that is to amend the provisions of Article 190 in order to comply with the rules of litigation which are subject to a subsidiary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124823	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first one was to speak to counterpart Miro Bulj, who is missing, who is losing his right to debate. And the next one, on behalf of the Club of Independents, will be spoken by the honourable representative of Tomislav Sauch, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State without an associate. So this law, which is before us, is actually going to solve a very big problem that has proved in practice because the previous Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritances since 2013, has been adopted in order to actually comply with the Law on Personal Identification, which led to the solutions to the Heritage and Mortals, in these documents, the OIBs had to be introduced as the people who succeed, so the person who inherits is essentially making it very difficult to deal with the situation in cases when leaving the process for the persons who have passed when the Law on Personal Identification Number enters into force, so before 2008. Let's say for example. If the person was missing, the procedure for determining the i.e. the declaration of the missing person to the deceased and, therefore, in such situations, it was simply not possible to enter someone's OIB when that person had no OIB and in those cases it meant that the law prescribed very strictly that an OIB must simply be entered into the settlement and such a single solution that did not contain the OIB was incomplete and as such was not enforceable in the land-based court. So many desert debates simply could not be brought to an end, and now these changes will solve these problems, they will be significantly simplified, namely they cannot be expected from courts especially when it comes to such complex, very sensitive things as ownership books, that they are kept to a maximum that they do not actually adhere to the law as a drunk plate, so there was an accurate knowledge of what was necessary, means an integral part of any inheritance solution, without it being carried out. There was also a situation where the court could not, under official duty, reach the successor of the OIB because it simply did not provide that information, it would now be significantly facilitated, and FINA, no, excuse me, the Tax Administration would be required at the request of the court to deliver that information and therefore, in these cases, the desert proceedings would be able to bring an end. So we think at the HNS club this law is good and it should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124825	Thank you very much for the opinion of the HNS Club. And now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Ante Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124826	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's 10 of us in total. We have before us amendments and additions to the Legacy Act, the final proposal. We know that the Law on Inheritance is governed only by the right to inherit and rules under which the court of other bodies and certain authorised persons act in connection with the matters themselves. The 2013 amendments required that only the OIBs and, in particular, the Real Estate Tax Act and other laws, the obligation of the public notaries themselves to make certain tax administrations subject to the verification of signatures on documents with data from the participants of the proceedings themselves and with data from the OIB themselves. Accordingly, and in accordance with certain legal decisions, the responsible person in the court or the public notary as a commissioner if he introduces himself an OIB of the leaver, is exposed to the possibility of criminal punishment but there are possibilities and, of course, where he is unable to obtain the OIB of the heir himself or when the heir does not respond to the court or when the successor is a foreign citizen, there is no OIB or when the whereabouts of the heirs are unknown. Therefore, this proposal also proposes that the court, if it does not have the information available by the OIB of its successors, heirs or persons in connection with the succession, will obtain that information by official duty to the tax administration itself. The Ministry of Finance, then prescribed that within 8 days, it must deliver the same information and provide the OIB with the same information. In the case of the Tax Administration, everything and related is prescribed by law if, in the case of the Tax Administration, informs the Court of Justice of the inability to deliver the OIB, that a certain decision will be issued on the succession of other data other than the OIB, so that the solution remains valid, as the State Secretary referred us to in his presentation and stated to us the differences between the first two readings and this proposal also to supplement Article 227 relating to the regulation of the obligation to deliver a valid decision on succession and in the relevant land-book court itself, in the HDZ Club, we believe that we accept this final proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124827	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124828	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inheritance, second reading, P.Z. Number 365. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 118 for and 4 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Legacy Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124829	I now propose on the basis of Article 247. Rules of Procedures to conduct a united discussion on the next two points, if that's okay with you? Both are: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on mutual protection of classified data, second reading, P.Z. No. 492 - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Government of the Republic of Austria on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, second reading, P.Z. No. 493 on the exchange of mutual protection of human.../incomprehensible/... data, second reading, PZ No. 493. Do we agree to have a united discussion? Thank you very much. For both laws, the motion for the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be based. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. The 207th Rules of Procedure of the HS. Based on the above-mentioned Article. The 207th Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall, as a rule, be adopted in one reading, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic please, for both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124830	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have before us the final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway and the Federal Republic of Austria on the mutual protection of classified data. This law confirms the contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the mutual protection of classified data and the Government of the Federal Republic of Austria in order to make their provisions within the meaning of Article. 140 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Norway and the Government of the Federal Republic of Austria signed a mutual protection agreement with the Kingdom of Norway on 3 July 2018 and with the Federal Republic of Austria on 24 July 2018. The above contracts create a legal framework and shall be.../incomprehensible/... mutual protection of classified data in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway and the Federal Republic of Austria which will relate to all future classified cooperation contracts and agreements containing or including classified data. The Treaty establishes a legal framework for ensuring the protection of classified data which are common to or exchanged between the Contracting Parties. The same degree of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, shall be determined by the competent authorities for the implementation of these contracts, the transmission mechanisms of classified data, and the handling of qualified data. Specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, the way in which visits are made, the handling of security violations and the issue of costs incurred in the implementation of these contracts. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124831	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take the floor first? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one was to be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj, is not there, he is losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124832	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear fellow Members of the Parliament, for seeing that we are here in total, 6 and 7 with the Vice President, even though we are talking about two documents concerning national security. This is not an irrelevant topic, as of course no topic in this HS is irrelevant. This topic is, i.e. these documents, these two documents mentioned here by the State Secretary are directly related to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It also directly concerns the Security Intelligence Act, and it also concerns the Privacy Policy, so I am very sorry that there is no one from the opposition when such an important topic is today, though in this evening's time, but it doesn't matter. In July of last year, a contract was signed between the Croatian government and we heard, the Federal Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Norway for the exchange of data. It is one of a series of such contracts that have been signed and, of course, it regulates actually international exchange and protection of classified data and that is particularly important for our country. It is important to stress that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of any additional financial resources in the budget and what is important to say that the transfer of these classified data usually takes a diplomatic route. Of course, it can be another way in line with the international agreement between the two participants, this is about two countries and depending on the level of confidentiality of data. It also goes with empowerment and translation. Of course, it is limited only to official persons and, of course, the word always requires prior consent to these data and why I mention this, because unfortunately there have been certain abuses in recent history. I hope that in due course we will actually correct all shortcomings, but this law only regulates, so what I mentioned earlier, which is why the HDZ Club supports the adoption of these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124833	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We have exhausted today's agenda, which is what we were planning to do today, and we will finish today's work, and we will see you tomorrow, on Friday 18 January at 9:30 again and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Management of Waste, Second Reading, PZE No. 443. Have a good night. Session adjourned at 6:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-17-0.u124834	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the mutual protection of classified data, second reading, P.Z. Number 492. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed and I am voting on that final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that, with 123 votes for and 1 vote abstention, the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the mutual protection of classified data has been passed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, today is the first item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, second reading, P.Z. Number 443. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. The government has submitted amendments that become an integral part of the final proposal for the Law. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the Honorable Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, please.
