ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u174891	We are now going to take positions on behalf of the clubs and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, will be spoken by his colleague Željko Glasnović, who has no right to speak, then, on behalf of his respected representative, Bruno Esih, please. Yesterday it was made clear, everyone got the notice, I told her.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u174892	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the day of the Croatian takeover of the EU presidency. In addition to the other priorities Croatia has highlighted, the EU's enlargement of the so-called country is of course mentioned. The Western Balkans, but as we had the chance to hear on Wednesday, in Turkey. We do not know exactly what the Croatian and Turkish foreign ministers were talking about behind closed doors but we can certainly comment on what they said to the public. The first thing that comes violently into the eyes is the repetition of the Western Balkans coin in all its variations. When said by one minister or by the Prime Minister, it gives the term state legitimacy. That's the term and I'd say it's a curse, President F. Tudjman would probably throw out of the public workers' dictionary, especially from official politics, and I'd like everyone to remember it when he comes after Tudjman's heritage race. Secondly, what is truly surreal, the Croatian minister said that Croatia welcomes Turkey's important role in terrorism and migration, or Turkey's efforts to take care of refugees from Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. If we put aside very serious doubts that Turkey has just drawn huge financial benefits from the conflict in Syria, the question arises for our minister how does he know something that no one else knows, or what people are really talking about? Are they refugees, are they opportunists, maybe Taliban and terrorists? In addition, we all know that Turkey is using all these people to blackmail the EU with a time-playing of these people towards the EU borders, which are the borders of Croatia that the minister has an obligation to protect. Third, as many examples have so far proved that the weak-blooded performance is typical of the forms of diplomatic behaviour that are being taught in Croatia, we need to ask a few questions. What and how much concrete diplomatic success such behaviour has brought to Croatia in the last 19 years, and how much, for example, the success of the United States has been brought to its president's behaviour without the certificate of the diplomatic academy, so entrepreneurs. Speaking of the United States, aren't they our strategic partner, and also the basis for achieving our national interests in BiH, in particular, have just warned the global public of Turkey's incompatibility with NATO standards. So when we mention BiH, what was mentioned specifically by the country's minister, who will chair the EU's minister who wants to enter it, and about BiH and the general political dysfunction, that is, the country which is just the Turkish geopolitical influence that is undeniable. He mentioned the need for the continuation of Croatia-BiH-Turkey trilateral but nothing more. Dear gentlemen, there was a time when diplomatic aristocracy was behind closed doors and all the agreements remained there. The Croatian public has the right to know what is concrete for Croatians. Your obligation, which has been written in blood for centuries, is to stop connecting Croatia first with the so-called so-called Croatia. The Western Balkans. Secondly, to free yourself from the role of second-rate intermediaries on behalf of Berlin or Brussels and to finally start setting serious conditions using the country's position, which is equal to all other Member States with its own voice. If you are unable to define Croatian national interests then please step down and because you do not have the right to make any province from the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179896	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. We will start with work and the first point will be as announced: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, the second reading, P.Z. No. 774 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 207 and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure, the laws which are approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts shall, as a rule, be adopted in one reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Andreja Metelko Zgombic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179897	Good morning, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. You are presented with a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan. The agreement was signed in Tokyo, Japan, on 17 July 2018 after 5 years of negotiations. It is an agreement establishing a strategic partnership between the EU and the Member States and Japan, which is really very strong for all partnerships between Japan and the EU and the Member States, by promoting political and sectoral cooperation and joint action in areas of common interest, including in regional and global forums. Only areas of cooperation are indeed rich and extend almost all areas of state action, the agreement promotes joint action in promoting common values, democracy, rule of law, human rights, promotes co-operation in the field of peace and security, joint crisis management, joint fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The same thing as fighting terrorism together. The agreement also provides for closer cooperation when it comes to development policies, economic and financial, cooperation in science, technologies, innovation, transport, tourism, the development of opinions and policies related to the field of information and communication technologies, so new challenges, as well as co-operation in cybernetic issues as regards security and the fight against cybercrime. So these are all areas where both Member States and the EU and Japan have a wide space for joint action. Cooperation in the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, in energy, agriculture, fisheries, maritime affairs, judicial cooperation, therefore includes a very, very wide range of joint action. So this is a solid platform that will establish political dialogue, deepen bilateral co-operation, so the Republic of Croatia through this agreement will have a stronger forum for development and bilateral cooperation with Japan and, of course, it will be a forum for joint action at global level. The agreement itself in provisional application shall have provisions concerning competences exclusively of the EU, or issues of common and foreign and security policy and those provisions shall apply to the provisional application of 17. Seven. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. What is particularly important in the same way may point out that this agreement not only establishes a strategic partnership but also establishes an institutional framework for this partnership, a joint committee is set up to meet once a year in Brussels and Tokyo, and this will be a good platform for further development and deepening of partnership and common interests. Following the above, it is proposed that this House accepts this bill of confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179898	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this bill confirms a strategic partnership between the EU and Japan. Among other things, this enables the strengthening of bilateral relations, when we mention Croatia and Japan's relations, then in the first place there is tuna, in August of this year, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Japan was visiting the Republic of Macedonia, so besides the progress in the field of tourism, except that Croatia is more recognizable, among other things, for football, what we can develop further relations, especially in bilateral terms, is the issue of cooperation with educational institutions, science, healthcare and there is also potential for strengthening bilateral relations between Croatia and Japan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179900	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179901	Thank you very much. I am interested in fellow State Secretarys to tell us more specifically what few of us as Croatia will benefit from confirming this Agreement. Normally, it's a general thing for the EU, but I'm curious because I always feel like it's all about bilateral relations, ministers' visits, here, now our Vice President Reiner was at Emperor Naruhit's for coronation. It's all nice and nice to develop relations friendly with Japan, but I'm interested in these little more concrete things anyway, so if you're in a position to tell us a little bit, maybe what this Agreement will mean more specifically for the Republic of Macedonia, I would be very grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179902	Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179903	Here, thank you very much. So this Agreement and the development of partnership with Japan will, in any event, allow for much better and deeper development of relations between the Republic of Macedonia and Japan. You yourself stated that lately we have had quite a frequent and intense cooperation and high-level meetings. This Agreement will create a platform where officials will meet at the highest level and will meet economically, above all, the opportunities Japan has and its interests in the EU and Member States and vice versa and we believe that such close cooperation, in a world full of global challenges, will encourage and strengthen and Japanese investment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179904	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179905	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we have already heard State Secretary Metelko-Zgombic explain this Strategic Partnership Agreement on behalf of the Croatian Government. It is a single framework that will allow for better co-operation between EU member states, meaning both Croatia and Japan on the other hand. It seems very important to me that this agreement includes, of course, cooperation, when it comes to strengthening democracy, the rule of law, protecting human rights, fundamental freedoms, and that we will work together on a plan for peace and security. The State Secretary spoke of other sectors in which we will cooperate. Such an agreement is something that enables us in Croatia to strengthen cooperation with Japan in the field of science, in the area of economy in general, there are great opportunities, of course, to take advantage of them and here I support the way Mr. Maras thinks that we have one potential on this plan that needs to be used. A lot is possible, and it is up to us to use what is possible, so on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club here, I can say that our club supports the conclusion of this Agreement and the adoption of this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179906	Thank you very much. We'll move on to an individual debate now. Dear Representative Gordan Maras has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. On this cold morning, Friday, 13th and most MPs, in particular, are considering how today after the vote, a month-long break will take place in HS and after 30th and a few days, work on HS will resume. I must immediately start this debate to confirm the EU-Japan Agreement that I am unhappy that we have not used today at least until we have abolished this break in one more quality way because at this point in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament we have 117 or 118 points to discuss. As you can see, the debate will end in ten minutes, and after that we will have two hours or an hour of break to free speech until the vote, the Assembly will not discuss these 118 points of which, this is what our citizens must know half of about 70, 80 points of opposition from the proposed laws that will probably never see the light of day and that debate is held in the Croatian Parliament. And I think that the agreement between Japan and the EU is very important, should be supported and in some way developed by our bilateral relations, but in a country where little of the size of the economy slows down and probably growth is the lowest in our neighbours, in a country where corruption has erupted lately where incumbent President Grabar Kitarovic is going hand in hand, yesterday I see that the donor dinner is visiting the mayor of the city of Zagreb and probably or at least hope that they are not advent rabbits and in Mrs Grabar Kitarovic's campaign because it is still the time of the adventure, the most corrupt adventure in the EU in the city of Zagreb where the homes are shared with friends, interest groups etc. So in that moment where almost nothing is wrong in the country, where I thank God that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can see that the president cannot get a second term and that it will not be, talk about the last day of the parliamentary session before the month and some pause on the EU-Japan Agreement, in addition to the topics of the Law on Roads, the anti-corruption laws we have proposed, the elections for Parliament that will go next year, where some of the other clubs have proposed to go to three preferential votes, means so many of the topics that are important to the citizens of the Republic, which the President of the Parliament has taken aside, does not want to talk about, and we are talking about the subject of Japan and the EU and the signing of the Agreement of Japan-EU. I'm going to tell you one thing that's certainly like this, so signing this agreement specifically for Croatia is not going to change anything. More for economic diplomacy and for the development of relations between Japan and Croatia can be done by Miro Cro Cop Filipović than 10 such agreements and 20 visits to the coronation of Emperor Naruhit Japan. It is for the photo album family benefit of those who were there to show pictures to their grandchildren and in retirement recall happy moments from a political career, so there is not every picture with Emperor Naruhit and that when you can show the grandchildren that's the nice thing, but Croatia will have nothing of it. Mirko Cro Cup Filipovic is the ambassador of Croatia to Japan, which is likely to be born in history or in the future of our country. So he made so much in his sports history, sports results in the 1990s and two thousand in Japan that he is still such a notion that he is probably the most famous Croatian today, no matter what sports may not be so active anymore. That's what I'm saying because I'm telling you how little these agreements mean, and it's going to help the Republic of Croatia specifically. And we have today dedicated the last day of the meeting in the Croatian Parliament only to the debate that two MPs applied to say something, me from the protest, and Mr. Miro Kovac probably from the diplomatic rakours a little bit to say that this visit to Emperor Naruhiti can be used in one quality way. So on this side, we must be aware that Croatia has hundreds of important topics that are on the agenda of this House, that some of the reports of 2016 are not discussed on the agenda of this Parliament, that the laws of the opposition of 60, 70 are on the agenda of this Assembly which the HDZ does not want to discuss, that the country has sunk into apathy, corruption, that people are moving us and that no agreement between Japan and the EU will bring us back, but simply change, change of direction. Thank God we have a chance to change direction 22.12, it is for only a dozen days that will give great importance and a great incentive to change that in 2020 in the next parliamentary elections. So in a situation where Croatia has no economic growth as it should, where Croatia has no government that could use the moment and opportunities that have now opened up before us until there is a new recession, at a time when the Croatian government and the Croatian president are walking hand in hand with the most innovative administration of the local and it is forts them. Imagine in the city of Zagreb, citizens are unhappy, want to change the city's government, and the president promotes Mayor Bandic and local HDZ raises two hands in the air to transport garbage and collect waste from February 60, 70 kuna. Yes, let the Zagrebans know that thanks to the presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the Mayor Bandic, from February of this year, they will collect waste, waste disposal and 50, 60 kuna will give more monthly than they have given so far 100 euros or 700 kuna at the annual level. These are the results and that's what praises are today on the inside of the political scene of those who exercise power and I must say that I am very skeptical how much it makes any sense to discuss such an agreement. Our commitment to the EU is okay, the agreement that we have accepted, or by joining the EU, and ultimately we have to give our own court on this, but the fact that it is amazing that colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ that we are going to debate today will practically lose all day, there will be no debate of which our citizens will benefit. It's something that's inadmissible to me too. So it is incomprehensible that at the moment when the state is breaking, when another direction is to be taken, when it is certain that Mrs Grabar Kitarovic, the question of whether she can enter the second round at all, is very certain that we are discussing, or very uncertain whether she can enter the second round, that we are discussing the EU Agreement, EU Japan. And the only bright spot in all of this is that I see that this story will end very soon, that next week we will begin to slowly say goodbye to this bad policy that has led us to the situation in which we are, and whose fins are Mr Plenkovic, Mr Bandic and Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179908	Thank you very much. Your presentation has caused more replicas, the first one being the respected representative of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Maras, in an official visit to the vice president of the council, Academyman Reiner had meetings with the Minister of Defence and Development, assured them that it would be good to invest in the equipment for the ports, for the railways, I ask you what you were doing as Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts for better bilateral relations between Japan and Croatia, you presented yourself here as some kind of an audience that spoke about the outcomes of the presidential elections, so in this context I ask you where your presidential candidate, which he has worked for bilateral relations between Japan and Croatia, where he has been for the past three years, from whom he received money, for which he has lobbyed? For the sake of transparency, say, you were still the minister of one of the most unsuccessful prime ministers in Croatia in the history of Croatia's independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179910	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179911	This when you give such an assessment, she probably doesn't question citizens in front of TV screens if they missed what they said in the announcement, first they wonder who he said, and then after that, they probably don't question anything at all, because why would someone from HDZ who was hand-in-hand with Bandic raise the waste, change the GUP, want to kidnap 100 hectares of the green area of Zagreb, which is why he would lie, so he's certainly fair, even if he's a friend of Bandic, so it's the most transparent politician. So, a colleague of Bandic's Ivan Celic's how we can even doubt what he said, that's certainly true. The truth is as much as people believe that Bandic is transparent as the truth is what his colleague Celic was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179912	Thank you. A fellow cellic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179913	The Rules of Procedure, Article 238, have been injured. Mr. Maras, I know you've been trying to be James Bond, but failedly, I didn't know you were a judge, let the judiciary do what it is, and I understand your frustrations. So all I can tell you is that your populist performance is in the downward path and that people don't smoke it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179914	All right, I beg you, come on, you know that you abused this institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you not to do it anymore and that no one is doing it today. Come on, we're the last day, let's go be nice to each other. Okay? What? You insist on it, well say it, I know you'll abuse her unfortunately, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179915	No, I won't abuse her, in 238, I must admit that we must have a language for the citizens according to the Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament. So I don't understand what it means that people don't smoke anymore, so it's, it's, it's, you'd like to explain to me what Agent Cellic meant by saying that my argument of people no longer smokes. So that's me first, and the second thing I don't understand is why he's mad at me, so I commended him for being a Bandic, he's a little Bandic, though, who I am without a hair, but a little Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179916	Okay, come on, thank you very much, you've gone way too far, and this time we agreed that today we're not going to shoot each other at least on the last day we're going to be in front of the public correct, decent, respecting the Rules of Procedure etc. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179917	Thank you. My colleague Maras, your demagogy is truly incredibly innovative, you've been discussing everything just not the agenda point. About the stop and about the City of Zagreb and about the elections. Since all the MPs are going to take a break, does that mean you're staying here or what? You call everyone, and that's your business, too. I mean really amazing. Furthermore, I am sorry, but you will obviously never be a candidate for Mayor of the City of Zagreb and that is the saddest. Being president of a pretty big party and never being a candidate. That's obviously pretty painful. And when we talk about the election, we'll finally see how the election ends and obviously the SDP is in total panic, given that two months ago, two proposed a bill, right on the upcoming elections that we called lex alibi precisely because their candidate by no means knows which way he's already losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179918	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179919	Thank you very much. Mr. Strick probably speaks from his own experience, he's the president there on several occasions, so he hasn't run for mayor yet, but you got me. I, in fear of the powerful Celic, am already thinking about how to eskiate these elections because we know if someone as a HDZ candidate in the city of Zagreb is Celic or Mikulic, so who can win them? Well, they're too strong guys. Of course, I'm joking a little bit here, I'm willing to bet on anything that twice the vote gets a SDP candidate from each of them, maybe even from the time they get together so that you don't worry about us, the next elections in Zagreb you'll see how the SDP goes and how the HDZ goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179920	Thank you very much. Obviously, I don't know the geography, so Zagreb is probably in Japan because I see that another discussion has started now, but the next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179921	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr Maras, if I understand your individual debate correctly, you have complained in the way of forming the agenda in the Assembly, or you have indicated that this is about one manipulation, given that the proposed laws that the opposition proposes, which are in the interest of the citizens, do not get the place they need, are not discussed until some who are not so important are. This agreement is important, this is where we agreed and there will be no big debate, there will not be much time spent so that the ruling majority has the right to manage the agenda if the public thinks it's really wrong, I believe that they will recognize it and sanction it in the elections. About economic diplomacy and perhaps because of the accuracy of the fact that Z. Milanovic's government worked with Japan, I can say that he established excellent quality relations with Prime Minister Abe who resulted in talks on bringing the Japanese automotive industry to Croatia but unfortunately... These talks were not made when Milanovic left power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are records of this in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179922	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179923	Thank you very much. Mr. Klisovic, you are probably the most formed on this since you have led economic diplomacy, many of the things that have been launched during that period have unfortunately not been realised but what you have certainly well noticed and I hope that most people agree that the last day of the Assembly session is pointless after which the month and a few days of Parliament will be closed and will not lead the debate even though we have 118 points on the agenda that we could discuss, we are only discussing the EU and Japan agreement. As if we don't care about corruption, bad economic trends, the situation in Croatia and departures and the demographic situation that has never been worse, 175 000 people have left the Republic of Croatia since 2016, we are discussing the EU and Japan. I mean really, colleagues and colleagues, it's for concern and I don't think that's right and I think we should change the practice of putting together agendas or allow to discuss those topics that are crucial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179924	Thank you very much. Otherwise, you're always complaining that I'm on time, you see how much I've just let you go. ... Well, I could've stopped anyway. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] The next replica is the respected representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179925	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I understand that every situation in the assembly is also used for political messages, it is natural but it is not good when an individual is burdened with individuals and it feels in certain discussions with you because when you talk about the collection of a particular type of product in Croatia, then you are focused on an individual rather than on prices in Croatia. In Croatia, the prices in most cases are more expensive than in the EU, and who is the case that if we compare waste disposal, then Zagreb is not more expensive than the EU, here in Brežice we go to food and drink and telecommunications and drugs are becoming more and more expensive than 10 to 30%. Telekom's incomes rose 30% in one year. I have never heard from anyone in this House that no one gets a set of telephones and telephones and telecommunications and spends their families on average 1,000 kn per month on this alone and the transport of garbage is cheaper in Zagreb than in Podgorica because it is privatised there, so 60% is more expensive than in Zagreb and it is 40% cheaper than in EU countries, this does not mean that Croatian opportunities are not expensive, but the waste of garbage is even cheaper to spend on medicines and more expensive to pay medicines and telecommunications.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179926	Thank you. We have an answer to the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179927	Thank you very much. Col. Marića, if a man could isolate himself only on these situations that you said and ignore all that is happening next to it, then you might even be right, but if we don't have separate waste in Zagreb, if Zagreb doesn't have or doesn't earn money from that waste and doesn't allow citizens less cost of waste disposal than they could, given the amounts that are collected in Zagreb about the relation to Podgorica, I believe that the sizes are much, much bigger, until all this is done together, while individuals have huge financial interests in that and citizens have to pay it, normally that a person has to be focused on Zagreb and on what is wrong. It is a shame that HDZ supported this decision, which will be issued to citizens out of the pockets of 700 kuna a year, in the town of Zagreb, in the households of pardon, in the households in the pocket of 700 kn per year. For Bandic and HDZ, a decision they boast about, and for me, it's a decision that's embarrassing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179928	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179929	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I already spoke for the club, I'll say it one more time. So it is a very high-quality framework for cooperation between EU member states on the one hand and Japan on the other, so these are the very quality frameworks offered by the EU when it comes to external relations, and of course the Member States have the chance to take advantage of this framework in the best possible way and so does Croatia. So I wouldn't put it out of the way, I wouldn't banalize it, I wouldn't say it's a harmless subject. It is a serious topic and it is important that we discuss this topic in the Croatian Parliament as well. One of the countries that participated in these negotiations on the conclusion of such an agreement is the UK that had yesterday's elections. The election was won by Boris Johnson, so his conservative party, and according to the latest results, will have one solid majority with almost 40 seats in favour of the British Parliament's differences in order to do what he promised in the campaign, namely that the UK will leave the EU. As a member of the EU, we, as Croatia, must think about what the citizens of Great Britain have told us that they no longer want to be with us in the EU. So we will have to think about ourselves, how to make the EU more efficient, how to keep it attractive in these times of very intense global competences, i.e. In the Croatian competition, we here in the Croatian Parliament must discuss this seriously. Now, today, 13.12 is not a topic, but when Mr. Maras is talking about us discussing topics that are not current. The presidential campaign, Mr Maras, is being led according to Croatian laws, the presidential campaign is not being held here in the Croatian Parliament because none of us are running for President of the Republic, nor are we elected President of the Republic here. The President of the Republic will be elected by the citizens of the Republic, and they will keep in mind for sure what anyone has done and how anyone has acted in the past and who has the greatest credibility. I can only tell you one thing when you talk about Japan before I say something about presidential elections, that everyone does their Cro Cup Mirko Filipović eats he deals with full contact and these things, and Mr. Reiner is involved in parliamentary or if you want "parliamentary diplomacy", each for his sake, Mr. Rodman, you've heard of basketball player Rodman he's traveled to North Korea listen he's also a athlete. So these are normal things, I would not like the work of colleagues in the Croatian Parliament to be bagatelized, banalized regardless of the political differences we must be very serious on this plan. All of us travel around the world for Croatian citizens and in the name of the Croatian Parliament, and so does Mr. Reiner as vice president of the Croatian Parliament in this case and as representative of the Republic of Croatia, so let's not just make such a big deal out of it. As far as the presidential election is concerned, you know, Mr. Maras at your time when you were a member of the government that we were really in a fight with all the neighbors, we had to make a big effort after getting you out of power to get you back in line and have normal communication. You know that there was a closed border and closed even rail traffic with Hungary, we couldn't go there anymore by train, because it had to be taken care of. There was some kind of attempt to put some kind of blockade on the border between Croatia and Serbia, and there was a capitulation, with Slovenia a wire was erected, therefore now talking about some great successes and attacking HDZ is not realistic, and I think the citizens will recognize it in these presidential elections in 9 days. You will see who knows who did what and who is considered qualified in this country to act as the highest duty, the duty of the President of the Republic of the Political Person elected by all Croatian citizens. I was with my colleague Ljubic in Berlin yesterday with the Friendship Group and I can tell you that we are expected to be a significant contribution to strengthening European unity here in Croatia. Mr. Klisovic was with us, so he can confirm it as a representative of the SDP. We are not a big country like China, Russia or Germany or France, we are a smaller country, but we have as much responsibility when it comes to Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe, and it is therefore important when it comes to voting in the presidential elections to give good thought to who can do this seriously. We already have too many clowns on the international stage, too much turns out, too many non-serious things, and I do not want Croatia to enter the category of such excesses. We don't need that at all. And in this Croatian Parliament, it is important that we keep the level of discussion we can argue, but Mr Reiner.../incomprehensible/... liberal and as chairman, he even allows people to take a little of you off the subject, which is correct in some other countries, in some other parliaments it would not be possible. We would have been taken from our word, but here we are, and on that plan, we are a little more liberal, a little more open than some other parliaments in the world. And if I were to say one more thing before we took a break, before we went to our homes and were there by January 15th in this HS there were so many excesses, so much insult to Parliament's dignity, so many violations of the order of the Parliament that in some other countries, which have a longer democratic tradition would be punishment in both France and Germany and the EU Parliament in a way, and in Italy, that there would be sanctions on exclusions from the work of the Parliament... And there would be financial sanctions. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] There is no such thing in Croatia, but somewhere else you could not speak at all. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] That applies to all of us. To all of us,... than those who are in the parliamentary majority, and we have to do it in the long run if we want to be more quality because people are full of hats more unquality, a debate without substances, and he's looking at it on TV and then he wonders what these people are doing. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It's a shame all of us together. I don't want to. I want us to now, yes, before these Christmas holidays to be aware that we have great responsibility in HS when we are discussing important topics, so here is the topic between relations, the conclusion of a strategic co-operation agreement between the EU and Japan. I'm glad Mr. Maras wants to become an expert on Japanese culture, the Japanese economy and the Japanese political system. I'll think about it, a little... how much more literature I have when it comes to Japan, about Croatian-Japanese relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can help with that, I even have one little dictionary so that on that plan we can show one solidarity of parliamentary representatives in this HS, Mr. Rainer I can only say that I haven't been to Japan yet, but I'd like to leave. But I don't have to go to the Emperor's house, but to go out in private, to get a little familiar with Japanese culture, and trust me, there wouldn't be any such excesses in Japan, because the Japanese would cut it very quickly and efficiently. As we know them, I thank Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179930	Thank you very much. Uh, I'm glad to be recognized and more liberal today in these discussions, but I'd still be praying that we focus primarily on the subject, and I think we've gone very, very broadly. But we have more replicas on your exhibit, the first of which is the respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179931	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac, I accept this immediately, this offer of vocabulary and books related to Japanese culture and the political system, I will be happy to read it. What I am sure is that at any time when the President of the Parliament may be in some mandates in the future, you will not, of course, be the next two, but three, four, you are still a young politician, you may well realize, would certainly be putting important topics on the agenda, not as President Jandrokovic who is pushing these topics off the agenda. The second thing, I'm sure there's no way in Japan's political space that chips can fool their voters and vote for most. Rather than betraying their voters, I see Japan's culture and political system and morals in Japan's politics, and as unfortunately our citizens know best in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179932	The answer to the replica of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179933	I love this... Ton, thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Maras. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he's ready to learn, he's ready for reform, he's ready for introspection, and I really love Mr. Maras's performance, and I'm really going to wish intimately that after January 15, you continue to perform in HS. If that happens, I'll be an even happier man. Here, I see Mr. Cellic and he'll be a happier man, we pray together for Mr. Maras to continue in this tone at HS to speak, we'll all be happier and our viewers on screens will be happier and happier, so maybe even Mr. Bulj, why not? Thank you very much. You've made my day, Mr. Maras. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179934	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179935	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac. You mentioned on several occasions this Agreement which you say has a framework that is perspective for our Croatia. Can you tell which one is, you expect effects in the second part of the impact of this Agreement for Croatia? In part two, you were talking, of course, about the presidential campaign, that's your right. In one part, in the middle you talked about Brexit, about Croatia's international position in relation to Croatia with the EU, so I would ask you if your position on the problem of the migrant crisis that we now have a huge problem, even there is not that much in the media, here in my region, in Dalmatia we have a great transition of illegal migrants. Would you send an army to the border to help the Croatian police protect the security of our citizens and their property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179936	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac. I'm asking you anyway, in the end, we're gonna end up, I don't know on parrots from South America or I don't know what subject we're a little bit of, we're really going wide, so I'm asking you once again to go around the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179937	In this case, Mr. President, Mr. Bulj has asked a very important question, which is not directly related to this Agreement, but like this. So yesterday we talked to our colleagues in Germany and we told them that in BiH we have 30,000 migrants, it's like in Germany you have 800 thousand, and we know what earthquakes and political scenes brought them to Germany. So this is a very serious situation, which must include both Germany and the EU as such. Croatia must engage on the spot in BiH, help institutions, help a society that will hardly be able to deal only with the number of migrants. It can... as far as Croatia itself is concerned,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that my smallness suggested that the army could go to the border and that the government had passed that bill and now it would confirm it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179938	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179939	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovac, I listened to your debate, but at one point you also looked back on what a colleague is, i.e. SDP colleagues have abused this debate and are on their way to a pre-election campaign for their candidate. So I just want to say and remind myself of that part because if you remember, they should have chosen their candidate, he should not have appeared at the meeting of their main committee, then one of their ministers said that if they wanted to vote for him, they should have stuck their noses in view of the quality of that candidate with character and eventually they were all in Croatia trying to convince, i.e. Hide the most important part, no one can know what a man has been dealing with for the last three years, who he is, who he's being financed by, how it's been happening, so that they can simply create that haughtiness they're talking about here, I say, and try to promote his candidate. What I'm saying is we're interested in this second story that tells us about this agreement between Croatia, i.e. EU and Japanese countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179940	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What my colleague Boric said, I have already said, I will repeat here, that people in Croatia will know who did what, how someone did in the past, whose moves he showed or did not show, and I am convinced that our people in Croatia will recognise that we must on the agenda and foreign policy and representation of Croatia in the world show one seriousness and by our actions in Croatia to calm down passion and seek consensus, not to go to work or to HS with some kind of charge that we want to fight. I don't want to and see that even Mr. Maras accepts our discourse so he can change the same... in the presidential election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179942	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179943	A fellow blacksmith. In the first democratic multi-party elections in the Republic of Croatia, the victory took the HDZ to the lead with the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman on the platform, first independent sovereign independent Republic and second membership in Euro-Atlantic associations. It means NATO to the alliance and then to the European Community, that is, today the EU. Today, many who are referring to Dr. Franjo Tudjman argues that our membership in NATO and the EU should be reviewed, however, if we do not belong among the most democratically developed, economically advanced, technologically-technically most perfect states, socially sensitive, so where is our place, if not amongst the alliances and integrations with those countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179944	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179945	Thank you very much. Mr. President, here is my colleague, Strick, who once again drew attention to the fact that three days ago we had an anniversary, the 20th anniversary of the death of Croatian President Tudjman. A man who was integral, who was the president of HDZ, but who had that vision, and then, in the 1990s, thought Croatia should also have an opposition, that it should also have an opposition. Is it? He didn't want the SDP gone, then HDZ could have done anything to make the SDP go away. He did not do it because he had a vision and I am convinced that regardless of which nobody is infallible, no one is wrong, that in the future President Tudjman will be, in Croatia, but also in the world perceived as Croatian Charles de Gaulle, as the Croatian Charles de Gaulle, whom both left and green today respects in France, will be in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179946	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179947	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovac. From 10 minutes of your debate, you have devoted a minute and 15 seconds to Japan and this Agreement. And by the very grace of our vice president, Mr. Rainer, you didn't get a warning and you weren't stopped. You were talking about Brexit, you were talking about the presidential elections in Croatia, about Mr. Maras, who seems to be becoming an inspiration of HDZ MPs in Parliament, Maras as a husband of HDZ. You also talked about the state of bilateral relations during Milanovic's government, with our neighbours. Now, you promised, you said they were terrible but today they've been the worst since we were an independent country since the Homeland War. The relations of Zagreb-Belgrade were never worse. The wire you promised to take down towards Hungary and Slovenia is still standing there. With BiH, tension is high, so how is it then advanced relations between neighbouring countries and Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179948	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Klisović, apparently inspired by Japanese culture, he stops time, you will get, as far as I'm concerned, and we can introduce a prize for time-saving in the Croatian Parliament. So voluntary time-saving, my proposal on the 13th of December 2019 to win Mr. Klisovic's prize is very good. And I don't know if there may be an object somewhere that's being studied, wasting time in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. But once again I will say about this foreign policy, when you were the deputy foreign minister was an excellent capitulation compared to Belgrade, meaning the ramp raised, right after that someone called the saying capitulation, there is no connection of the railways with Hungary, with Slovenia wire. So these are the results, me, exactly, that's what the results are talking about and the timing is one activity that children do I don't know in elementary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179950	The next replica is the respected representative Gordana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179951	Dear counterpart Kovac, you said and it is primarily the topic of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Japan, as well as of all the countries with which Croatia cooperates and evidence of the importance of cooperation is the very status of Croatia in and the international reputation that it has achieved just under the chairmanship of the state and also our Prime Minister. So it also proves that, as the last member of the EU, we already have a chance to chair the EU, which is also a very big, great honor and reputation. Therefore, all those who have so far been arguing, in fact, with the environment, it is an honor to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179952	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, I would like once again to take the opportunity to say what my colleague Grozdana Peric mentioned, we have already taken advantage of the occasion in the previous HDZ government in the aftermath of the referendum in Great Britain on Brexit, which is now going to happen and when we changed the schedule of the presidency we managed to force Croatia to come early and so we will now be chairman of the next year since 1.1. I believe and believe that this will be a major contribution to strengthening the efficiency of the Croatian state administration, which has a chance to prove better cooperation between resolutions in the Croatian government when it comes to European cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179954	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kovac, I therefore believe that this agreement is good, that it is necessary but I also believe that in these relations with such countries we should learn from the better ones. As I was preparing for this replica, I learned that in 2016, the Minister of Economy of Japan resigned from office because there was a suspicion of corruption. So doubtful, he did not go after that to the Japanese Parliament but disappeared from political life. And I think that, as Croatia has a high degree of corruption which in our country, some former ministers go to Parliament because of our suspicion of corruption, we need to learn from such countries, and I think we also need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179956	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179957	Corruption is everywhere, so it's one monster that applies to all the countries of the world because corruption is immutable, inherent to man as such. In Croatia, the primary goal we must achieve, which we must organise, is to strengthen efficiency and we must be more effective when it comes to curbing corruption. If you look around the world at what's going on and what's going on in Japan, when it comes to corruption, there's a lot to it and politics. I believe that in Croatia, we need to be even more efficient on this plan. Our goal must be to strengthen efficiency in Croatian society, in this way we will be able in the long term, only so that we can succeed and be a successful advanced society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179958	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179959	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm really going to try to stick to the subject because a little today is unfortunately talking about Japan and this agreement so we could really end up on the South American birds as you suggested. So in my opinion, this agreement between the EU and Japan is, of course, a good thing because the regulated states are also trying to regulate their relations. Avoiding anarchy in international relations is crucial for countries that are less geographically, according to their political, military or economic strength, including Croatia... within the EU, our recognizability, our strength, our influence in international relations is much greater because we participate in defining common EU positions and then implementing such attitudes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Japan is a great ally of Croatia and I will remind you of several facts where he has shown it and bilateral relations with Japan are extremely important for this country, regardless of how geographically far Japan is from the Republic of Croatia. You will remember those disasters of the great Fukushima when the nuclear power plant was destroyed when 9 per richter degrees of earthquakes hit Japan, when the tsunami occurred, when Croatian citizens spontaneously lit candles in front of the Japanese embassy and laid flowers. Japan highly appreciates such gestures, Japan considers such gestures a major investment in bilateral relations. So these relations were really very developed and Japan showed and in co-financing, for example, demining in Croatia, so in cleaning Croatia from mines left in the Homeland War. We've never experienced such things from other allies. As far as bilateral relations are concerned, and even in the time of Milanovic's government, I must say that they were good, that we had really nurtured them, and that Milanovic and Prime Minister Abe also clicked on what is said in a colloquial fashion and raised that level of relationship to another level. This agreement, it also has its concrete advantages, you know when the Croatian entrepreneur comes to Japan and when it is necessary to get some help diplomaticly he will come to our Croatian Embassy but he can also request the basis of this agreement and logistics or other assistance from the European representation that we are cursing more in Japan and we are adding more integrated into the life of the Japanese society and the Japanese economy itself. You won't be sure to guess if I ask you what Croatian product the Japanese are most interested in. Probably the first thing that comes to mind tuna and tuna is really one product that largely buys Adriatic tuna and consider it one of the best quality if not the best quality in all and buys it regardless of the price. But what they are particularly interested in other than tuna and most interested in diplomatic experience, the experience of running economic diplomacy is software. So they smell a small community of ICT experts in Croatia who do quality software. And so the technologically developed state is ready to buy software from Croatian young experts or employ them in its large systems. You probably don't know that Yazaki, the largest company for the production of sophisticated cables used in the automotive industry, the airline industry, in the shipping industry, which is de facto monopolist in the world, how powerful it is and how strong it has opened its research and development development office in Croatia, assessing that there are extremely high-quality engineers here who are relatively cheap compared to the price sought by the Germans, the British, the French or the Americans. Therefore, it is a bond with Japan that we should continue to cherish. I mentioned the automotive industry, the Japanese were really interested in finding a place in Europe where they would open production. They have as we know a whole series of brands in their country. Croatia was one of the options and we worked on it, each Croatian government should systematically work on it, and the worst that can happen to us is that in such strategic projects one government then does not continue what the previous government did. And in this context, this agreement is important to put Japan in front of the Croatian public again, but also to the MPs in the Assembly as a country with which we should work and cooperate regardless of its geographical distance, it is of interest to the economy, it is our political ally of the EU and Croatia in one part of the world where new global forces have been staging for us in the international field. And in view of all this, Japan must be deep in Croatia's foreign policy and MPs in the Assembly must have a basic knowledge of the importance of Japan and including the importance of going to the coronation of the emperor, which is also one gesture that they highly appreciate and will certainly further develop relations with our country in a positive atmosphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179960	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Klisovic, I commend your replica, and I agree with you that regardless of which government of the Republic of Croatia was to be constantly working on certain projects and that is what you mentioned, it is the automotive industry. I will mention as a bright example Slovakia which employs 250 thousand people in the automotive industry, which 44% of total industrial production refers to the automotive industry. We can, in some ways, be the reference country of Slovakia and certainly have room to strengthen bilateral relations between Croatia and Japan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179962	The answer of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179963	Thank you very much. You are absolutely right, Colic, but what we really need is a strategic unity in thinking about, say, foreign investment in Croatia. So we do not attract everything and everything because not all investors are necessarily very well-intentioned towards Croatia but are there to draw money, leave and care about what they leave behind. The automotive industry including some Japanese companies also have an aviation industry within that automotive industry is a very labour intensive industry, employs a lot of people, a very sophisticated industry, employs people with great knowledge and a very profitable industry, these are actually investments that Croatia needs. And Croatia has a host of military facilities yet former armies that have been declared unprespective and that so stares blank. Including, say, huge objects out there on Udbin that were extremely interesting, let's say, the Japanese were just about to open up this guy's production. The proximity of the sea, close to the highway, the proximity of the railways additionally raises the value of Croatian territory for, or parts for, such a strategic investment, and we must work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179964	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179965	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I called for a later debate on this point, given the comments of our SDP colleagues who say you see and see no more here in the assembly on how this is a second-rate topic, how this debate banishes the work of the Parliament, how it even occurs to the president of the Parliament to put this issue on this important day, there were many more important topics than the EU-Japan Strategic Partnership Agreement. First of all, this is about the fact that the horizons of our opposition SDP colleagues are quite narrowed down, that they do not see or understand how important this document is to Croatia. Not only because of the fact that it includes, it covers if I can say 635 million people when the number of EU and Japanese residents is established, but more importantly it covers one third of the world's total economy. A third of the world's GDP is happening, products are being produced in EU Member States and Japan. And if this is not an important document for the SDP MPs, then I don't know what the important document is. The more Japan is one of the most important, strongest, one of the strongest economies in the world, the more important it is for Croatia. And more importantly, what I think should point out is that trade exchange between Croatia and Japan is in favour of Croatia, which is rare for developed countries and that 3 times more Croatia exports to Japan than Croatia exports from Japan, and we know how strong it is in the international world, which means the Japanese economy in the world. Something he spoke about and commended in this regard to his colleague Klisovic's debate, Klisovic said something about it, Mr Klisovic, but the fact that Croatia exports to Japan about 450 million euros of this large part is largely related to the export of agricultural products or tuna, fresh tuna from the Adriatic Sea. What does that mean for the Postira in Brač, what does that mean for Zadar fishermen, what does that mean for fishermen in Croatia? Not enough should be said when it is known that Croatian tuna, fresh tuna of Croatia, is one of the most important gastronomic specialities in Japan itself. This agreement abolishes customs duties, Japanese customs duties on numerous agricultural products coming from the EU, including Croatia. Since this signed agreement by 300% has increased the export of wine from Croatia to Japan. After signing this strategic partnership agreement, that nothing else has happened, that I am not talking about how much something Mr. Klisovic was talking about.../incomprehensible/... etc., but about a part of agricultural products that now have easier access to the Japanese market. To say that nothing else has happened, this topic deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, not in someone else's, but in the prime term for me. Because if something interests Croatian citizens, then it interests what, as well as in what way, some document that is discussed and adopted in the Croatian Parliament means for them personally, for their workplace, for their standard of living, and that is why I should talk about it, and I also commend that this particular topic has come to the agenda. What does Japan mean for Croatia, what is the relationship between Japan and Croatia when it comes to tourism? In the last 10 years it has been tenfold from Japan, watch out for ten times as many tourists in Japan today as 13 years ago. Today there are about 170,000 tourists from Japan coming to Croatia, and 10 years ago there were barely 15,000. So Japan is our external economic partner important, important. You should ask my islanders, i.e. Bračana, which is Japanese, what exports from Croatia mean to them, and by this agreement and how we contribute, we contribute to the strength of the Postira company in Brač, as well as other and other Adriatic fishermen. Therefore, I think that this topic is welcome, and what we would like to do in these pre-election times for the election of the president of the Republic of Croatia to do only with this and nothing else, and what our political frustrations for political defeats have lately wanted to solve in the daily debate and what this should be the only debate in the Croatian Parliament and nothing else, save God that we are talking about something that would help our farmers, our farmers, our residents, our fishermen, etc., it should be, it should be, by colleagues from the opposition second-rate topic. That doesn't have to be done. What will worry us about is whether we perform in Japan EUR 150 or 500 million in how much exports are now and this year they will be in Japan, and we should deal with what they said somewhere, how much that statement has affected the injured vanity of someone else, we should be dealing with it, not with these topics. This is why this is not a second-rate topic, this is a first-class topic to be discussed by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, because I think this year has been achieved if I am not mistaken, Madam Secretary of State, a visit to Chinese, Japanese, I apologize for the very important distinction between these two countries, the Japanese Minister of Economy in Croatia or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. When it came to this strategic partnership agreement, the respected Japanese minister then spoke of Croatia's importance on the Japanese market and about the agreement on the partnership between the EU, the EU and Croatia. When he was both signed and discussed, I think that Jean Claude Juncker then spoke as President of the European Commission how important it was that the EU as one of the strongest, seen as the world's total economies has access to the Japanese market because this agreement opens the European market, the Japanese market, which is not few, somewhere around 135, I don't know exactly how many, 130 million Japanese people have, how important it is that the European economy is placed on the European market, and this partnership, this agreement makes it easier, customs cuts, there is clearly reciprocity, etc., etc. So not that I am not running away from such debates, God forbid there are discussions like this, which, as MPs and the Croatian Parliament, can help us, help every concrete Croatian economicist because I say a very large number of them are involved in this agreement. And you can clearly see that we're discussing an economic topic and this topic is primarily a couple of excellences, an economic theme. Under the radar and in the Parliament, we haven't heard the data that, by any chance, it would have been the opposite of what we had heard today, it's the INA's decision to get into the modernization of the river refinery, a business worth 4 billion kuna, the value of 1.5 Peljega Bridge. How many words, sentences, have we spent on the Croatian public to talk about the importance, historical, strategic importance of the Peljega Bridge. On the other hand, it is as if this is not a major economic project that will mean a lot to the Croatian economy and the modernisation of the oil refinery in Rijeka. What this will mean for increasing the number of employees and highly educated new employees in Rijeka, given the rise in the value of the derivatives that will come out after the construction... The facilities in the refinery itself do not need to be specifically spoken and how important it is for the growth of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the entire Croatian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the topics this Croatian Parliament should talk about, not that every day 50 times, almost from the same mouth I hear who said, which he said, as it relates, that this will reflect first and foremost vanity rather than social events in Croatia. Therefore, I commend this topic that we discussed today, it would be good for these topics to be even more in the Croatian Parliament and to argue less with each other, which is why the dignity of the Croatian Parliament is where it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179966	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179967	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, there is one thing I must warn you not to mess with the exact data. So it hasn't been in the last 10 years that the arrival of Japanese tourists has been tenfold. In 2010, we ended up with 147 grand, this year going to be about 160 grand. So it's a few percent more than then, so it has nothing to do with it, and it has nothing to do with this agreement. And the other thing, look at the agenda, not a single topic that deals with the substance of solving the problem of Croatian citizens in the last few weeks HDZ has put on the agenda. Because they are aware that the situation is bad and because they are aware that all those who think it is good in Croatia will vote for Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic and all those who think it's bad in Croatia and that it can be better, will not vote for Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. And that is the only reason why there are no topics on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179968	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm surprised by my colleague Maras, you're having a lot of discussion at the Croatian Parliament, but I find it even weirder how quickly you forget. Well, you discussed the most important economic document in the Republic of Croatia a few days ago. You discussed a budget a few days ago that essentially defines the conduct in Croatia's entire life from economic issues, from topics related to infrastructure, to all possible topics affecting Croatian citizens. A few days ago, we discussed the Fourth Circle of Tax Reforms, which again touches each of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, we can't talk about the budget and the topics that you would like to talk about every day in the Croatian Parliament. In the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing topics defined by dynamics, the work of the government and how the government is doing, above all, in this economic sector, the best talk is macroeconomic and economic indicators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179970	Thank you. Comrade Maras, you've done your job in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm the one who asked nicely that we don't argue with any violations of the Rules of Procedure. ... Don't abuse if you intend, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179971	I'm only asking for the 238th article, please make it correct, I mean it can't be a few days, we discussed the budget a month and a half ago, Mr. Boric. A month and a half ago. So don't keep telling the truth, that's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179972	Okay, I have to give you a heads-up because I've really been very tolerated today, but don't take advantage of my tolerance and abuse. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja, but before I give him my word, we'd like to welcome the ladies and gentlemen who are at the gallery and who have come to listen to us, so here you are. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179973	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, the esteemed secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing an agreement between the EU and Japan, of course the most impact that will be in this framework for the Republic of Croatia should be seen. However, at least it was heard on the one hand and on the other hand anything that would bring this agreement. However, cooperation with Japan is economically known in this context, but something special I don't see. It is also mentioned here that the car industry that was developed in Japan, I do not see that our economic zones in Croatia are some Japanese, that investors are involved. Here, counterpart Bačić, there was everything and mentioned it now to INA, the INA that shut down the refinery in Sisak, the INA that we handed to essentially hostile in other people's hands, the INA that Croatia lost, and now boasts there with some economic growth, means absolutely, with the development of INA. I would say that talking about this topic of course is an agreement that has come here, as far as it will affect Croatia no one knows, that is what protocolary what we need to confirm here, it is known, however real and life-threatening topics and impacts on the economy that will be the effects I do not know because here's the distinguished colleague did not say, secretary. I am interested in the question mentioned by Mr Kovac during his debate, he went even to Brexit, he went to work with this Serbia everywhere, so it is not only on the side of the opposition that there has been this wandering and asking questions, and of course when it comes to the agreement and to us about the EU that cooperation with Japan is important. Of course, but it is important to mention through the debate, and it can be the problem of illegal migrants who are now entering, crossing the border and having a huge impact, i.e. create uncertainty in these areas and endanger the uncertainty of our citizens and threaten the security of their assets. And that's what we need to talk about and ask those questions. So these topics when they come for discussion, only and only to speak within this, and we don't have very often the opportunity to see this chief minister, the distinguished secretary is often here, she'll be sacrificed to come here and answer, the minister has a job to do and less important to him this assembly. If it's so important and important this topic that we're discussing today, the last day before your vacation because you're too tired, before you rest for a month, it's just that your hands are so blistering that I don't know how you're gonna fix it all these 15 days, this month. I'd like to ask you a key question. When it's so important why he's not prime minister now, why isn't he here now? And in foreign policy in that diplomacy, we have huge problems, huge problems. Only the Sabelak case is a bigger problem than all these problems. That's what it says about corruption at the Foreign Ministry. So we have a problem now already with the Secretarys of the Council of Europe, we have a problem with the Secretary of the Council of Europe who has not called in a single monitoring committee for Serbia in the opening of Chapters 23 and 24, she has been rewarded, and she has had to call in the commission four times a year, so let the secretary here deny me if it's true. So we call here that we do not have the right to speak, to perform, and when we have the opportunity to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not doing its job and that this agreement is of a formal nature, that he has passed the procedure that is an agreement between the EU and Japan, we only confirm that because we are a member of the EU, then the question is what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing and whether the ministry respects the law's affairs, and especially those long-term diplomats, because it is the incubator of those who run the Republic, the incubator. Although too much influence was in this incubator and Budimir Lončar. And now I'm asking a question, which is why the Foreign Ministry has not called any commission formed in 2016 to monitor Serbia's opening open on 23rd and 24th. Chapters, I'm asking you a question? I also referred to the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia the question, as the report is required to send to the Commission, whether it received a report from the commission, and the chairman of the commission is a minister or minister. The President of the Republic responds that it did not, in 2016 it happened. Therefore, we have serious problems at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because simply these many years of diplomats do not, with great experience diplomatically they do not even mention themselves. If my best man were anywhere named, it would be mentioned, but when they name their godmothers and names each other, if that's normal, don't accidentally mention the godfathers then it's Miro Bulj that they mention the best man, it's the wrong commission for this monitoring conflict of interest, everyone's guilty. I'd like to ask you to do your honors, my colleagues and colleagues, the Foreign Ministry is not doing its job. The current minister, as well as the former minister, violates the laws of the Republic of Croatia because the monitoring commission for Serbia in the opening of Chapters 23 and 24 has not been convened, only once in 2016, and has to be convened four times. What's the foreign ministry doing about it, what he's courting for? And this agreement on Japan, with Japan and the EU, is a procedural agreement addressed to the Croatian Parliament as a member of the EU. I am more interested as a parliamentary representative, which is why the minister, the former minister, and the secretary could answer, do not respect the law, which is why they are implementing more Serbian politics and their interests than Croatian interests? Which is why we will give Serbia the opening of this chapter and not the monitoring to be small The Hague, to judge, to be Croatian defenders to be hunted by Chetnik Vukic and similar. That's a question I've been asking you for years. We've been setting up for years, but you're not responding because Croatian interests are not being protected. We have many other questions, and I am glad that tuna is exported from Croatia to Japan, and I am glad that this is the best one of the main menus there in Japan. However, I would prefer the foreign ministry to encourage an exclusive economic belt to be declared. That would be the most important thing. And that coastal, Croatian coast guard has the technical ability to protect our sea, our natural water, protect us, and not that the Italian fishermen hunt fish whenever they remember them, destroy flora and fauna, not protected Croatian fishermen, but the Croatian fishermen must move out, they are worth the laws to them, and Italian carriages are not worth it because you are in cooperation and you must not oppose Thailand, the fascist Tajani who owns my Dalmatia and Istria. So declare this exclusive economic belt, let's strengthen our coast guard and that's a struggle of diplomacy for Croatian interests. We're not protecting anything, we're better at talking about cooperation, we haven't even protected agricultural land, our diplomacy hasn't protected the sale of agricultural land since 2020. Hungarians, foreign, legal and natural persons will be able to buy agricultural land in Croatia in evicted Slavonia, Dalmatia. However, Croatian natural and legal persons cannot shop in Hungary. Orban protected the sale of agricultural land and we moved everything out and now we're putting it on the market for free. Just to say that a diplomat with years of experience, a lifetime under a glass bell, it's a protection of interest and it's not funny to you gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179974	Thank you. We have two replicas, I ask you that, today as you see me, I am very tolerated and I am letting you talk about everything except the wheel, which is a strategic partnership between the EU and Japan, and at least in replicas when we are not already trying to get involved with the right subject that we should have discussed and we have discussed everything and everything else. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Lonachar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179975	Thank you, Vice President. Kola Bulj, precisely on agreements made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if it is an economic development of the Republic of Croatia, is exclusively through economic zones in the Republic of Croatia that there are dozens of us ready to accept all the challenges both the European and the World Community offers when it comes to the development of the economy. That's one thing. And secondly, I have not seen anywhere in Croatia a metre of square agricultural land sold to a foreigner and I am convinced that this will not be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179976	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179977	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, I agree that we should discuss this issue widely and that we do not need either the Vice-President or the secretary to write what we are going to say and agree that the economic development of our zones is important and that we should discuss it. However, as far as agricultural land is concerned, I have given the amendment, and now I have instructed and the law is in the same procedure as in Hungary if we are equal that there is no sale of agricultural land to natural and legal, foreign persons. It means there isn't. So that's the key, but unfortunately it's not accepted. I'm sorry you didn't vote for this proposal either, but since 2020, foreign legal and natural persons can buy agricultural land in empty Slavonia and we have 700 thousand hectares of unprocessed land preserved. So know how many vultures are going to buy it from the ministry through our vermin for cheap money from evicted areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179978	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179979	My colleague Bulj, as a parent whose child is out of Croatia at work, is very important who we do in foreign affairs. Especially when I know that in foreign affairs at the time Minister Vesna Pusic hired her friends, home friends, friends of her ancestors, and in Washington as advisers in foreign affairs, foreign associates who could not possibly work on these jobs past the rules that employed $6.7,000, who had access to various documents, which is also a matter of national security, how it is possible that such a person could thus be employed and did not do their job as Serbian foreign affairs services do, which involve exhibitions about Croatian crimes. Our parents didn't bother to show off the werewolf crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179980	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179981	Thank you very much. Well, there's no big difference, it's all a similar incubator, it's there, we mentioned it and... how they were appointed and how the counselors were appointed, how they spent their husband and husband’s money in Australia, who were ambassadors, ambassadors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So just that system, that one, that's the same incubator, '92. And everyone who's been there in '92. The same day, Plenkovic and Jandroković and Grabar-Kitarović and Milanovic were received. It's all the same story and it's all godmothers and godmothers and it's not to be mentioned, look, it's not to be mentioned easily. These things, and they do, and they have continued their diplomatic careers and their political careers. So it's simple, but I'm interested in protecting the Croatian national interest and their best friends are not to be mentioned and if it were my best man, then we'd see.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179982	Thank you very much. ... We are moving to a final exhibition that will be held by a respected representative of Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179983	Thank you, dear colleague. What? [[Intruder Reiner: About Japan.]] Well, that's on the agenda, isn't it? [[Intruder Reiner: About Japan.]] Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Here I am glad that I can finally say a few sentences about this agreement and that it is important to develop absolute economic relations and the only thing we are not satisfied with is that we are no longer spending more time in the Croatian Parliament on how to make our economy and our citizens live better because then we would benefit much more from these international economic agreements that allow you to place certain goods and what counterpart Bačić said, the export of Croatian wines to Japan cannot, unfortunately, be able to repair the economic picture in Croatia because they are so small quantities. As long as we don't create our own agriculture at that level to produce larger quantities of wine and other agricultural products, we won't benefit until then. Because 300% more than what is a little bit of course that can't economically help Croatia and that's why it's not good and here's today, 13.12., the Parliament will be sitting for just a few hours, we now have breaks on behalf of representatives' clubs that are likely to recapitulate the entire session and send final political messages from HS, but it's not good, and we will all agree here that of 118 points that we have on the agenda, 70, 80 of them which are proposed by the opposition that solves the important problems of Croatia that are at this point in a demographic disaster, in a corruption disaster, in an economically poor situation, we have no trends that some other countries have and when we talk about this Agreement in Japan and then someone calls on Japan and its standards, as counterpart Kovac said, here, he also offered to meet and representatives in the HS about this political system. It is amazing that we stand politically in terms of moral relations in Croatian politics at all in the same sentence. So we in Croatia have a situation where the dead cold people betray their voters, run to the other side, have inexplicable reasons that no one can understand why they did it, and in Japan it's impossible, so there's a man, if, as Col. Sladolev said, he has minimal suspicion of corruption and no longer deals with politics at all. Not to go back to parliament, not to run again, not to try to get his fellow citizens' mandate in the elections, but not to run at all and move away from the whole policy. So, the curiosity is this, that we are essentially the last debate this year, we are dealing with this topic, we are comparing Croatia and Japan, and unfortunately in the vast majority of things we cannot compare, not only does it not matter the size of the country and the number of people, but the standards, political morality, corruption, it is all something that unfortunately we do not have in Croatia and it would be good to have in this Agreement such provisions that will allow Croatia to have a different standard of corruption and tolerance towards corruption, it is amazing that it means the person who has the most, far the most accusations and who are confirmed and courted in the Zagreb court, runs the largest unit of local self-government, the City of Zagreb, is a key person and the key person who supports President Grabar Kitarović. That's, that's almost amazing. In Japan, the support of such a person would run away, in Croatia as if it were a straw of the salvation of Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic catches Mr Milan Bandic. Unfortunately this straw of salvation is going to save her and it will be, I would say, something that would be the ultimate move that she could make out of despair, but there more, I think, coming back isn't and all of our citizens know it very well. So here I am, taking the opportunity to make sure that everyone who is watching us today, and from this pay phone, I want everything best for Christmas and New Year's holidays, and I hope that in the new year, Parliament will work more to the benefit of the citizens, given that we have a lot of a topic we might be able to address. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179984	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Stevo Culej. I hope it's a real breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179985	If it isn't a warning. I think my colleague Maras is in his debate about Japanese people who are otherwise known as honorable men, with them an engineer, if his train is five minutes late, 10 minutes to complete... Harakiri, punish yourself for your failure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With us, it's possible that someone could be without any knowledge, any ability, the minister could be the director, they could burn twice...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179986	Thank you very much, and I give you a reminder. Next on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, finally speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. [[Thank you. Thanks again.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179987	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here's the last day of this year. I'm glad there's a secretary here, and I wish she was a minister, so here's the first thing I'm going to say about the subject and this agreement. The agreement with Japan, like all EU agreements, is important for Croatia because we are a member, but we are on the tail of the EU and we are absolutely on... They start everything in the EU, so I hope that our diplomacy will do this part of the economics to increase investment in the Republic of Croatia and that Croatia will not be just diplomacy of the embassy as in the case of Australia where the Croatian money has been spent illegally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how it was in other embassies and I'm not counting, therefore, our diplomacy here plays a significant role in cooperation in this case with Japan. However, I will mention once again that former Minister Pejcinovic-Buric did not respect the government's decisions in 2016, it was the decision of Oreshkovic's government to follow Serbia in the EU accession chapter. It doesn't make me sad anymore, let alone something with Japan. So we will give the terms of the Hague, the possibility of a small Hague to Serbia, chapter 23 and chapter 24, is very important, do not let the Serbs, i.e. To the Serbian authorities, the Croatian defender, you like, you as secretary and minister, and even minister, here are 5 months. This commission set up in 2016 would have to be convened four times a year and once the Presidents of the Republic or the President would have to report. I asked the Presidents of the Republic in writing I have an answer, not a single report of that committee has been received. On the Veterans Committee, we never got an answer whether the monitoring committee in Serbia met, and these things are very important. To talk about tuna, once again I will repeat, I am glad that tuna is exported and I am glad from our fishermen, our fishermen are tuna on a gastro offer in Japan, it is nice and it should be developed and it should be encouraged, but we declare an exclusive economic belt, let us strengthen our Croatian Coast Guard and do not let the Italians destroy us both flora and fauna and fish fund, do what they want. That's the part. The role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the role of the Croatian Government, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was created as it was, it is such an incubator, an incubator where Budimir Lončar had a big, too big influence and there is simply a network of godmothers and that is how it is for you right now. To mention the godfather by chance to someone so that, that the godmother is named, you can't do it, it's an immediate press 4 hours, even I almost got rid of Brexit, by chance when he mentioned me, he heard Johnson's Prime Minister, even mentioned me, and that, as Excellency, he's going to direct me, because, of course, it hurts him to mention the best man, I don't have a problem to mention to me any godmother, so I don't have a problem with that, simply diplomacy is intertwined with interests, but unfortunately not in defense of Croatian interests, look at other countries fighting and economic diplomacy and investment, not in us. We care about years of experience, diplomatic experience, manners, courtship, and that's why we're on the EU's tail. We are at the bottom of the retreat, lastly, after withdrawing funds from the EU and what we pulled from the Pelješki bridge, there is no money left for Croatia, remains an object, every piece is Chinese, every one. So let's look at economic development, diplomacy must be used for investment, promotion of Croatia, the resources of Croatian but not for Croatian diplomacy, if Croatian diplomacy had been done then Croatia would be developing today and not only would it have gotten a few civil places for democracy and democracy, this lady. The Switzerland and the Secretary of the Council of Europe. It is important to obtain, and the fact that 2/3 of Croatia has been evicted, what has been possible since 2020 for foreign and natural and legal persons to buy our agricultural land in the evicted Slavonia, is a minor problem and in Hungary this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179988	Thank you very much. Here, at this point we talked about everything but we didn't come as I was thinking of parrots from South America and all the other areas seem to have passed so I can conclude the debate on this point and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179989	Thank you very much. You've hurt an officer. In 238, or you write us exactly what we're going to say, a list of wishes, you as chairman but first call Prime Minister Plenkovic or former President Karamark, a former colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179990	Comrade Bulj, it says clearly in the Rules of Procedure what you can and cannot say You've broken the Rules of Procedure, I've tolerated it, now I'm giving you a warning. [[Intruder Bulj: Write to us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179991	I don't know why you're nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179992	I'm not nervous, you're rude, and you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure exist in order to act in accordance with certain No, no, just please stick to the Rules of Procedure and everything will be fine. [[Intruder Bulj: You knights insult Jerusalem's grave or Istanbul's.]] We'll do it now, because all of you could have come forward with the attitudes that are about to begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-13-0.u179993	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, reading, P.Z. No. 774, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law confirming the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and Japan on the other. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for the Law. The Programme and Financial Report for 2018, submitted by the CHO, on this item of the agenda, shall be voted in accordance with Article. Article 44(4) Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Programme and Financial Report for 2018 shall be adopted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 21 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home constituency body.
