ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164848	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. We begin the plenary session with the agenda point: - Proposal for a decision to declare the 21st October "National Day without Mobiles in Transport". Proposers: The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure has delivered opinions and submitted amendments. I would like the representative of the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of a respected colleague, Rank Ostojić, to give us an added explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164849	Honored colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure held a joint thematic session on 11 July 2019, which discussed the initiative of the Croatian Association of Security Managers to declare the National Day without Mobiles on 21 October 2019. Both committees unanimously supported the initiative in question and submitted a proposal for a Decision declaring 21 October to the National Day without mobile phones in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament on 11 July. I would like to point out that before holding a joint thematic session with the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee requested the opinion or position of the MUP as a resolution ministry and the Ministry as the holder of the National Road Safety Programme gave unreserved support to the declaration of 21 October on a mobile-free day in the Republic of Croatia, considering this as an additional effort to raise the level of road safety in the Republic of Croatia. In its opinion on the proposal for a decision, the government proposed two amendments amending the name and point 1 of the decision in question, proposing that the Croatian Parliament adopt a Decision declaring the National Road Safety Day on 21 October. The government explained this by using one of the four factors that threatens the safety of traffic from speed, alcohol, not using means of passive security that cause heavy traffic accidents and road suffering, and taking into account the serious injuries that occur in the face of non-compliance with different traffic rules, and in order to raise awareness of all road users and to point out the need for their education, respect for transport culture and the development of empathy, amendments to the name of this decision have been proposed. Of course, the Committee discussed this and accepted the amendments, believing that one of the factors that is one of the most important really had no reason for both committees that have made the decision on both committees to accept such amendments. Therefore, this proposal would actually be the National Road Traffic Safety Day of 21 October. I also have to thank my colleagues from the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and Mr. Pero Ćosic will continue in this explanation because this is a joint proposal. With the fact that I still have to add that the week of road safety that takes place between 6 and 12 May is the UN's activity and one of the other is actually not in collegiate, and for this reason both committees have proposed, accepted amendments and in this brief address, of course, with what a colleague from the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee will say, we propose that this be the 21st of October National Road Safety Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164850	Thank you. Chairman of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, respected colleague Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164851	Mr. Chairman, distinguished representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is my colleague Ostojić, who presented the detailed chronology of this initiative. I would just point out that before our joint session, we have sent a request to the Croatian Transport Safety Managers Association, which are the initiators of this proposal and, in its own obvious, accepted amendments to the Government, noting that they will, within the National Road Safety Day, continue to mark and organise the harmfulness campaign for the use of mobile phones. So here this week, at a joint session of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, we decided to accept the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus raise awareness through various actions and campaigns of all road users, importance and compliance with all traffic rules. In the world, 1.3 million people die in traffic accidents annually, and more than 50 million are injured. The World Health Organization predicts that by 2030, car accidents will be the fifth cause of mortality, and car accidents are already the number one murderer among young people aged 10 to 25. In view of the fact that a large number of traffic accidents can be prevented, it is necessary to invest the largest possible measures in the area of prevention, it is necessary to work continuously to reduce the risk of driver behaviour as a result of traffic accidents. It is necessary to increase the level of road safety due to the number of traffic accidents and the number of fatalities significantly higher in the Republic of Croatia than in the EU. For example, in the Republic of Croatia last year, 7.7 people were killed per million people, while in the EU 5 people were killed per million. It is positive that data from the MUP for the first six months of this year recorded a reduction in the total number of all types of accidents and the number of fatalities of traffic users compared to the same period last year, but unfortunately, in the same period, five children were killed in traffic and 54 were seriously injured. Comparing with the same period last year, the number of children killed increased by 150%. Namely, during that period... two children died last year, and now five. This increase calls for alerts and requires additional efforts to prevent further child injury as the most vulnerable group of road users. Our goal is zero children killed in traffic both as pedestrians and as passengers. We are therefore particularly interested in preventive educational actions carried out to protect children in transport through which children are also taught to transport culture, especially actions carried out at the beginning of each new school year. In 15 years, the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme through the cooperation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and various other associations and institutions, professional organisations and other entities has organised 100 projects aimed at increasing the level of road safety and the overall reduction of injuries, the best indication that we are on the right track. Since road accidents are one of the major causes of premature mortality in the world, the UN General Assembly has declared this decade, a decade of road safety action aimed at reducing mortality by 50%. In recent years, as President Ostojić said in May, a series of activities of dedicated education have been realised, increasing security in the Republic of Croatia, including the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Health, Science, Education and Sports, Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, HAK, Croatian Red Cross, Associations and numerous other organisations and institutions to encourage drivers to take greater care of safety. The main causes of traffic accidents are human errors and so on. Four major traffic murderers are alcohol, speed, non-use of a safety belt and use of a mobile in the car. I would refer to this 4th, the most common cause of traffic accidents, the use of mobiles in traffic, is a major security problem, not only in our country, but also in the whole world and the results of the survey show that in Croatia the phone behind the wheel is used by about 90% of the drivers. The same thing makes 33% of cyclists and 50% of pedestrians. It is difficult to determine, of course, the number of traffic accidents caused by using a mobile as opposed to alcohol and speed, and it is therefore important to raise awareness and pedestrians, drivers, cyclists about the danger of its use in traffic, as I said, at a joint session, we accepted amendments from the Government that saw the importance of one day a year declaring that it will be dedicated and focused on the overall safety of Croatian roads because road safety is one of the most important indicators of the state of security of each country because it affects each of us. We should support all activities in raising the awareness of all road users, pointing to the need for their education and respect for transport culture and the development of empathy. I thank the members of both committees for realizing the importance of this day's declaration and unanimously supporting it. We all aim to reduce all forms of traffic loss, and this goal is feasible if all levels of society are involved in its realization and are supported. The aim of the recently adopted amendments to the Road Safety Act, the reduction of the number of victims on Croatian roads, and I believe that, with proper prevention and awareness raising of citizens, our goal will be achieved. Therefore, I ask all HS representatives to support the decision to declare the 21st October National Road Safety Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164852	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peri Cosic. We have several replicas, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164853	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues in front of the motionary. It's just, of course, I've always been a supporter, and I've said more than once that maybe prevention is the best form first of all, before the repression, we've gone a little upside down, so first we've raised the repression and punishments that gave some results in the first time, but the question is how long-term they're going to be. What is certainly important is that we have to work on prevention, that we also have to task the MUP with quality education, quality education really raises awareness of all drivers and all road users, but we also need to move in one direction, which is about infrastructure. So, especially those in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government units, as far as cross-breathing lighting, traffic regulation, vertical and horizontal signalling are concerned, therefore, there is still room for prevention and much more needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164854	Thank you. Answer, fellow Cosic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164855	Thank you very much. It is certainly the best form of prevention that no traffic accidents occur and the MUP through this National Transport Safety Programme is taking on a variety of 100-acre of these projects, but it is important that what you have mentioned is that one safe and well-designed and well-designed road, well marked, both horizontal and vertical signalling of light, has a significant impact on traffic safety, so this is a complex problem, and that is also about education and prevention, but certainly the roads are a major cause of accidents on our roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164856	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164857	So at the very beginning, I very much welcome the proposal to declare the National Road Traffic Safety Day with a particular emphasis on mobile use, and when we have discussed not so long ago the increase in penalties precisely for using mobiles in traffic, I stressed that human life has no price and that if such penalties will save a human life, then these changes will actually meet their goal. In this way today we also act preventively to raise awareness of the dangers of mobile use in transport, and I hope that as a future carrier of this activity, the ministry will recognise the importance of focusing our activities precisely on the youngest. It is they who will become drivers in the future, and already today they are in some way involved in traffic, and the phones are unfortunately their daily life and lifestyle, and our numbers are inexorable, 91% of drivers, 33% of cyclists and 50% of pedestrians use a mobile daily in traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164858	Thank you. Answer, fellow Cosic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164859	Thanks a lot, buddy. Namely, the very initiative to launch October 21st was launched by the association... in traffic precisely with the intention to do it as a day without a cell phone, to declare a day without a mobile, but since we don't have a National Road Safety Day, the government has united it, so it means that it's complex to look at this problem, and this road traffic security manager's association will still at that time promote exactly what's very important, very important because we know that more and more young people are coming in the years when they're going to drive and more and more they're using the phone, today phones are not just for reporting, for text writing but are various platforms that are currently taking place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also means reading these messages, e-mails and all that, so one education and prevention of not using a cell phone when driving is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164860	Thank you. The next replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164861	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Dear Secretary of State, I think we all agree... I think that prevention is important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've recently passed changes to the law, additions to laws that we've done a lot of criminally, but I can see that from, everyday life, it obviously doesn't have much effect because people still talk on the phone while the savages continue to drive on the highways. I don't know how many times in the last month I've had to drive so that someone literally 20cm from my car means from the back end of my car and that it threatens me and everyone in my car and I've been driving by regulations. I think prevention is the only way to end this kind of behavior. And I'd like to give you a proposal, so one kind of active prevention. What we once did, I think I was talking, let's put on a uniformed car to drive along the highway during the big crowds and spikes, the very presence of that uniformed car will already reduce the need for these arrogant and irresponsible drivers to bypass, flowing over the right side, which is terribly killed. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164862	Thank you. Reply from fellow Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164863	I thank my colleague for asking. Namely, the Law amending the Road Safety Act... Rigorous and rigorous measures for those who do not comply specifically with the law for re-reciversants which mean repeating their mistakes and putting other traffic participants at risk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The punishment for cell phones has also been increased, but not only will the punishments solve it. There was a question of whether to reduce those penalties and go over to prevention, but one combination to say what carrots and beatings must have come in handy. And people should continue to be educated and people will continue with various actions and projects to educate themselves not to use their cell phone and as far as threatening and everything else is concerned to say and the driver's culture and everything, means to develop one culture, one empathy that if a man and when he makes some mistakes to guide him, to warn him a little that it's not, that it's not good and that maybe in some case we miss him and not that we all get angry so that we play, he'll probably... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164864	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164865	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to point out that Croatia is at the very beginning of the EU, unfortunately by the number of fatalities. So the European average is 49 per million inhabitants and in Croatia it is 80. Only Romania and Bulgaria are worse than Croatia. Last year, 331 were killed and the goal was according to the Transport Safety Strategy to cut it in half so that it was less than 200 by 2020. I am afraid that we will not succeed in this because this initiative is good and I hope that, thanks to these preventive activities, we will reduce the number of people killed in traffic accidents in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164866	Thank you. Reply from fellow Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164867	Thank you, colleague, for asking. We must certainly be aware that we are at the very beginning of accidents and the number of deaths in traffic, but trends are positive year by year. So here for the past period, last year 2018, 206 people were killed on traffic roads in 2019, and this year there were 166. So for 40 fewer people died on Croatian roads from 1.1 to 30.8. So here's all these actions mean education and probably this part of tightening the penalties of the Road Safety Act will bear fruit to make it even better and bigger but, of course, education is the key to everything, from small legs, from children to adults and behavior in traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164868	Thank you. As I have already said, the government has delivered its opinion, there is no need for further explanation. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go, fellow Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164869	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Proposal for a decision to declare the 21st October National Day without mobiles in traffic, i.e. now National Road Traffic Safety Day The HDZ Representatives' Club will support it. When we talk about this, I think it is good to compare ourselves with neighbouring countries, i.e. since we are EU member states with EU Member States, and here are a few statistics related to Member States, or EU Member States. In 28 EU member states last year, 25 000 were killed in road accidents, down 21% from 2010. The EU-level average of 49 people killed per million people, making European roads far the safest in the world. However, the figures suggest that the target of reducing the number of deaths by half on the EU roads by 2020 will not be met. In its 2011 White Paper entitled Road Plan for a Single European Transport Area, the Commission is the target date until which the number of road deaths should be halved in 2020. It also set 2050 as a date for approaching the target of eradication of fatal accidents. The objectives for the adoption of measures at national and European level are also defined in line with the principles of joint responsibility and subsidiarity. These objectives include improving the education and training of road users, improving and safety of road infrastructure and vehicles, promoting the use of intelligent transport systems, improving emergency services and ensuring the protection of vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists. In 2010, 99 people were killed per million in road traffic and 77 were killed last year by 26%, but the number remains very high and Croatia is the fourth since the number of people killed in transport, only Romania with 96 people killed per million, Bulgaria with 88 and Latvia with 78. At least one million people killed were reported in Britain 28, Denmark 30, Ireland 31, Sweden 32. In the Republic of Croatia, road transport statistics have been conducted since 1966, and since then, with 2018, 47 841 people have been killed on Croatian roads. To show it a little picturesquely, it's a city the size of Varazdin. On our roads there is another factor that affects traffic safety, which is the tourist season, as everyone knows, the Republic of Croatia is a tourist country, annually from the total number of tourists, 80% of them come by their own cars, 7% by bus or we can conclude that almost 90% of the tourists who come to us on vacation are coming in the direction of the road. When we talk about the causes of traffic accidents, I would point out that we can attribute them to man, vehicle and road, so here's a few words about each of these categories. With us, the age of the passenger car fleet last year was 12.64 years and for all vehicles a total of 13.68 years. The most common reason for the fall in the technical examination is the failure of the braking device, 30.32%, then the lighting and light signalling devices, 22.89%. When we talk about roads, we can stress that Croatian highways and roads are really good and cities and maintain, but I would put an emphasis here on the county roads and take an example of the Varazdin County. The County Road Administration of Varazdin County in last year had a budget of 64 million kuna. With these 64 million kunas, it maintains 944 km of roads or turns out that there are 67,000 kunas available for maintenance of these roads, winter service, designing, construction of new ones. Of course I don't think that's enough, that we should work on it and the County Road Administrations to secure them a bigger budget. When we talk about the cause, man, although behind all of these above causes is always human, the results of the survey in Croatia carried out in 2017 showed that 91% of drivers use a mobile phone while driving. 33% of cyclists and 50% of pedestrians cross the road. One reason for concern is that 40% of citizens would not change their habits regardless of the level of punishment. During the year, police are working to target mobile usage control and according to these results, we get statistics that say that in 2017, in the area of the Republic of Croatia, a detected mobile use violation during the ride, 37,388 times. In 2018, this figure was also increased to 40 971 times, which means it increased by 9.6%. How dangerous is it I'm telling us the following information, in 5 seconds, how much we type on a mobile at 50 km/h vehicle crossing 70 m without driver control or this reduced driver's attention is equal to the attention of a driver who has 1 alcohol spill in his blood, i.e. The likelihood that such a driver will cause a car accident is 9 times higher than under normal conditions. Taking all this into account, the HDZ club will support being announced on 21 October by the National Road Safety Day, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164870	I thank my fellow uncle. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164871	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we will support this proposal as a club, and I hope that together with the other measures implemented by both the Ministry of Education and Education and Science, there will be a reduction in the number of traffic accidents, in particular the reduction of the number of victims in traffic accidents, the most affected and, of course, those traffic accidents they have for the consequences of death but we must say, somehow I feel it as a duty and obligation, this is nice and fine and we need with these measures and it is one measure of prevention and good amendment of the government not only to apply that day to the awareness of the use of mobiles in traffic, but also to the other murderers, it is someone and here before listed, it is primarily the binding of the belt, alcohol and unadjusted or excessive driving, it is a little difficult to talk about the unadjusted speed, because the question is always about the state of traffic that it is unsight to be adjusted, and sometimes the speed of the road can be adjusted. So, when there was a debate on the Law on Road Safety and the introduction of these, we then called them Dragon Penalties, there were really a lot of complaints, a lot of criticism, I personally criticised that the repression would not achieve the desired goal, and the representatives of the ministry were then explaining these explanations to me that these greatest penalties were related to the rectivists, so those who, despite the fact that the violations often do them again and actually do not adhere to traffic regulations, endanger the lives and health of other people, and in this way want to be removed from traffic, and on that side we welcome that there are no misunderstandings, however, we still have to stress that the repression itself will not help, this is a contribution to prevention, however, that this brief debate is, however, that I do conclude what I want to say. Transport culture like any other, every form of culture in society is not something that can be so clear and easily prescribed even by legal solutions, culture is adopted, culture is the whole legacy of human society. The standard estimates that we in the Republic of Croatia are about technical culture and in fact and then traffic cultures are quite uncultural, that we do not respect regulations, it is not a good rating, it offends people and, because if we are watching and traffic, but from the point of view of the conditions in which traffic takes place, take only traffic in the City of Zagreb, it is not easy to drive in the City of Zagreb car, take traffic on my county where you have 100 km to the nearest highway, we drive along the state road so-called. D2 with a sub-level highway that is overloaded, it is not overloaded in the number of cars, it is overloaded in the number of total, total means of transport that are moving with it, starting with agricultural vehicles, to all others. So, finding out in certain conditions on the road can not only be adopted or provided that the student finishes auto school, he acquires auto-school driving skills, acquires knowledge of traffic regulations, but in real life it is not enough because many others appear, many other circumstances affecting traffic safety and therefore it is very important primarily in technical conditions, so building adequate roads ensure that people have equal conditions and that they can, that they can drive a vehicle, most often it is a car, with less stress because driving cars is extremely stressful and often not, we do not respect it. I wouldn't, I wouldn't want to, I wouldn't talk right now because I'm not a doctor, I'm not gonna talk about the psychophysical abilities of the driver, about everything that affects his behavior, but I could figure out this way that still in our society the car is a symbol of status, so it's not just a means of transportation, but it comes up with a lot of misunderstanding and when buying a car when it's going to be a car and it's incomprehensible to me as a human engineer of engineering that someone needs to buy a car of 500 horsepower, it's incomprehensible to me, but that's what people do, people buy a car of 500 horsepower, and then I promise I'll be short, the point of what I want to say. Technical culture, technical culture content for 5.r. Curiculum. At the end of the first year of learning and teaching subjects technical culture in the domain of Technics and quality of life, the student demonstrates safe participation in transport through the application of traffic rules and regulations. The development of outcomes, different transport participants, lists the safety and legal conditions of participation in transport as passengers and as a driver of bicycles and other child transport means, explains the meaning of the example of traffic signalling, explains examples of traffic rules and regulations, demonstrates the correct and secure participation of pedestrians and cyclists in traffic. Description of the level of good, achievement and educational educational outcomes at the end of the class, states safety and legal conditions, beware of the safety and legal conditions of participation in transport as a passenger or driver of bicycles and other child traffic, describes and demonstrates the application of traffic rules in simulations of simple traffic situations as a pedestrian and recognises the safe and proper participation of cyclists in traffic. If we add that just to the lower classes of elementary school nature and society, there ends a traffic culture at school, it's not good, it's a message, it's not good. Of course, I've said it more than once, someone might think that since I taught both basic school technical culture to look at this from my perspective, so I'm rooting for it, but technical culture, one hour of technical culture at school is too small and then we just turn traffic culture into a 5r. And this is too complex for student 5r. And then there's no more touching until he leaves, until he goes to auto school, and there's, of course, people teach him, but they don't have time to teach him the skills, the skills of driving a car, but a lot of other things remain unknown. Because I'm going to tell me as an adult, an MP in HS, and I've read the law, it's still unclear, it's been before, I've seen it in Virovitica, we've got a zebra, we've got this bike track drawn along the zebra, but now I don't know if a cyclist has to get off his bike or not, you know it's pretty dangerous, you can't, these are reactions that these are practically in, I won't say now in seconds, milliseconds when a man with, is it by law or not by law, I don't know. But why did someone draw a path to tell the cyclist he didn't have to come down with? Now, you should see that, because these are some things in real life that happen. So, you certainly welcome this but the M.O.P. just can't handle it. The Ministry of Science and Education and other resolution ministries and the Ministry of Transport should be more actively involved because I think that education especially for young people in transport culture can achieve much more. Here's one detail, I told the kids at school that it's 50km an hour that it's a big speed, that's what the kids laughed at me because they thought I was talking nonsense, 50km an hour, what speed it was. Kids don't even have that feeling in technical sense. Indeed, 50km per hour is a high speed, it is about 14 meters in one second which the passenger crosses and we are talking about speeds that are more than 100km per hour, they are high speeds and require the skills of the driver, they require good roads, they require a passive part of the protection across the belt, they require, of course, active protection. Someone here mentioned, it must not be allowed to drive people with faulty brakes in the Republic of Croatia, it must not be allowed, but if it happens then it is not a good example. To conclude, I welcome this proposal and we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164872	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164873	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Every time we talk about road safety, and that is certainly the topic most influenced and touched by most of our citizens who have been involved in traffic were pedestrians, cyclists, driving any motor vehicles or are only passengers or passengers. So there's no I mean any citizen of the Republic of Croatia who isn't in any of that, the property he's found during his life. And then we question how to regulate, how to improve, how to increase that security. This must be one of those things that goes into prevention, raising awareness, went like the idea of a day without a cell phone, and now that we've heard that 4 are the main causes of alcohol loss, speed, not binding and cell phone to connect, of course we just need to communicate wisely. 'Cause that's the point of this, having a good campaign, making it smart to get it out, and that day without a cell phone in the car is certainly more soundy, but I'm sure that's where you'll find the model to do it. But we had this new law a few months ago that went to that repressive one. Sometimes it's not bad to have that repression to make as much awareness out there as our people say where it hurts the most, per wallet. But that in itself is not the same solution. And I was also arguing at the time that, say, using belts or non-bindings to make the most of those doing it, doing it for themselves, doing it for themselves, not so many others, and that maybe there's not so much punishment to punish them, but first of all, by the premium insurance, the increase, etc., but it's another pair of gloves that I don't get into all the health problems we have. What is certain is that people are not sufficiently aware of the mortality of mobile use and other speeding surpluses. In the replica, I noted that the same is one of the elements of infrastructure, the state of roads, the state of horizontal signalling, the state and the purpose of vertical signalling. We have countless times, some signs, works on the road driving 30. And you stop, you drive 30, you drive nothing, because the road hasn't finished, she hasn't been given a license, she hasn't passed a technical examination or something that's been reconstructed, and she's left a sign. Then you, someone, you're threatening traffic to get somebody into you because people thought it was so much someone put in. There's plenty of disproportionateness between what's on the road, which are some warnings, which are signs, which are limitations and what's real. That's where we should work out a little bit that really if someone puts 50 then that means that everything you drive above is too much. Or on the highway when you put 60 and people go from 140 to no problem that anything's been compromised and then they say so they can always, to one and that's the problem. Because from 10 times 9 times you'll be able to go through this, but there's really no reason to be exactly 60, but that 10th time is going to be a sharp asphalt or something, so there's going to be everything. And on that side, too. When we talk about units of local and regional self-government, the brightness of crossings, signalling, warning, flashes of various kinds, therefore there needs to be more resources, more decelerations etc., etc., all that contributes to security. That's where we have to work more. Of course it's worth it. And I've always been for prevention, not repression. Yeah, the ones who go deaf, if everything is done, they're still relapsers, then they're repressive. But what do we do to those who are good under quotes? Surely we might consider rewarding drivers, car owners who are in some given period, for a year have not had any registered traffic violations. Through the system of registration, costs, technical examinations or already given to the famous, famous monopoly of the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, which even today is not clear to me why some NGO or organisation is a monopoliest, but it is another pair of gloves. To encourage the prime minister of security, they work like that, in a way. Why do we have those Daruvar registrations? Because insurance has their own plate where there's not so much traffic are cheaper premiums, there's no so many accidents and then the premium is lower. A safe country, which is revenueing about half a billion kuna from penalties and administrative measures, now I don't know how much of it is just traffic violations, I believe a large part of it, and there's room to use it as a means of stimulating, for making it easier on both registration and insurance of a vehicle or anything else. That's one direction we're still missing. That one who is careful, who is not registered in a violation or warned even, does not have to be fined, enough to be warned to achieve certain benefits and that is a prevention and that may be a motive more that maybe someone will still watch that key second or come on, we have this year I have endured without a misdemeanor, I will certainly not allow something before the end now, any improper drive to achieve 200, 300, 500, 700 kuna someone, it should be calculated by some discount when registering a vehicle or some other similar giving that can be done what every driver has the right or obligation to do. Here, it's a concrete suggestion, to be sure, it can't be overnight, it can't be... This should be discussed well, but certainly, all that goes into prevention, which goes into stimulating proper driving, in investing in infrastructure, in the safety of the roads themselves, that these, how many times we know that our signs are unreadable, invisible, sheltered by trees to some, etc., etc., roads insecure, there is certainly a need to look for the culprit, as well as the cause. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, there's a lot of segments, the punishment is one of them, it's not the most important, and we can't limit ourselves to it or just focus. The fact that someone is going to pay 67,000 kuna because they didn't have a driver's license because five times he was running or I don't know what it is, it's hardly gonna deter someone from using or not using their cell phone because it's not nearly the same thing, and it could put themselves and others at risk. So, to prevent, that this day of October 21st, we absolutely support on behalf of the club, however, let's go one more step further, let's see how to stimulate those who may look like fools in traffic when they're being watched, and let's go reward them and try to raise awareness of driving in safe driving and traffic and participants themselves. And of course, in conclusion, through education, we have no obligation to educate our young fellow citizens or children on a bicycle ride. You buy your kid a bike and let him drive. How, where, he has the right to take part with the bike in traffic on the road bit, if there is no cycling trail, if he has, of course, then he has to ride the bike track, nobody asks if he knows how much traffic, how old, at 10 years old, children drive, when they're 12 years old, children drive, somewhere in Western countries it's settled. That they must undergo compulsory education and as regards safety and equipment and as regards driving and knowledge of traffic, of course in the extent that they can understand, and that is something that certainly through schools, through a sort and civil education, if you will, can and should be made and entered into segment and education, and in particular prescribe it as a commitment, slightly said. Why? Because they're training for bicycles, tomorrow a romobile that needs to be regulated, I just hope, not too much, they also gain knowledge of traffic regulations and as pedestrians. And that's what's important, when you get on a bike on one side, then you know what your busy obligations are, what you have to do, you'll probably use that as a walk. So, this part that started as a cell phone, we support it to expand, I just want it to communicate wisely, because I'm going to repeat it once again, so 91% of the drivers are used by cell phone while driving. Now, some people say if you have that bluetooth system in your car so you don't hold it in your hand, that's okay, it's also taking some of your attention, but I think it's possible, because he's practically just rounding you up like when you have a passenger and you're talking to him while you're driving, so we can't get the passenger out of the car or... talk if you can't do this either, but certainly everything that further distraction does and about using your hands or anything that can distract you in your attention and what needs to be done and prevent them, of course and punish them if it isn't respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here are two concrete proposals, one education in schools, one obligation for all of our children to go through education for road users, whether as cyclists or something else, and the other for rewarding those who respect the rules through facilitating certain giving of a vehicle code or registration, insurance of a vehicle or any other administrative givings that we have, and they are not small and that should be taken into account. Who in the insurance system, if you don't use it, then your premium is, your shelf is low, if you did something, it grows, you lose bonuses, etc. Nothing spectacular. Here, once again, the HNS Club will, of course, support this adoption of this proposal, the decision to declare October 21st to the National Transport Safety Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164874	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. It is normal that every problem we have, and it is related to the safety of our fellow citizens and to the reduction of death on roads or accidents or anything related to it, should be supported, and so should this problem, especially because the promoters themselves said and wrote in this request that people are not aware enough of the danger they bring themselves and others into traffic using mobile phones, means false security that speaks of people feeling that they have maximum control over their vehicle and traffic situation leading to 91% of the driver using a mobile phone during the ride. It's fascinating that 33% of cyclists use it. So people drive with one hand and talk or without hands and talk during bicycle rides, so it's obvious that we have to work on raising awareness of our fellow citizens, drivers and absolutely one such marking that will accompany a number of promotional activities can certainly help both the police and all those who care about traffic safety. So, it should be supported, it should be explained to people every day, it shouldn't be there or not, in some situations to pretend like a Puritant, it probably happens to everyone in the traffic that we're sitting here and there after the cell phone, what my colleague Curaj said, cars are equipped with Bleutooth, but sometimes a man forgets to include Bleutooth, put headphones, etc., so it probably happens to each of us here to reach for his cell phone and to make sometimes unconscious, and sometimes a conscious traffic violation that can't interfere with us because, with constant education, I believe that such behaviours in traffic will be removed or at least removed to a more significant extent than it is today, so 91% of drivers are really very much and it's just saying that these 39,000 violations are a drop in the sea, so if any such situation were sanctioned, probably to be 100 or many times more. Especially now, people are saying that there are these smart cameras that they're recording, well, this one record and that kind of offense, I'm not sure, maybe the Ministry's representative can say that, but I think the cameras are going to be on speed, and then follow other violations if someone accidentally wasn't connected or talked to his cell, etc., so we're going to contribute a lot more to awareness, but maybe sometimes more severe sanctions because people are simply not aware of the dangers that such behaviours in traffic, meaning that such behaviour in traffic result, or it doesn't happen to anyone, or very few people do, because of this kind of behavior hide an accident, and then, repeatingly, repeating this kind of behavior has a great chance that they will eventually result and in that way. But what I want to point out here is that we need more general traffic promotional activities that talk about responsible behaviour of individuals, especially when it comes to public figures and these last few days that we've been following in the media where one of the leaders of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia dominated with one of their unacceptable behaviors and about driving, and yesterday we could watch it from videos in certain media, Mr. Turudić's chasing at 40 and 50 km/h more than he was allowed and in some way his discussion with the police as it was, so Mr. Turudic says that when the police forced him to drive quickly, and the police then demonstrated that it was not so, saying that even the people who should be present the laws and who need to be an example of how the law is respected, that when they are caught in breach of the law, they still blame someone else for it, and the biggest problem in that they see a whole group of interest. So, Mr. Sesa, obviously Mr. Turudic's friend doesn't see any problem in the conduct of the judge and president of the biggest court in the Republic of Croatia in the way he behaves, sees no problem that he went into discussion with the police and accused the police of making him, yes, drive fast, and that he was driving maybe a little over at first, so they made him drive close to him at a certain speed and didn't see any problem in that he didn't personally get a call from the court and went to court to explain what he was supposed to explain because as if he wasn't at home, and we all know that when you get a call that very, very rarely when an ordinary citizen ignores the court in that way, I personally go and with responsibility go to the post, unless I'm on the road, but it's never two months, because it's usually happened to me once or twice in the whole career that I didn't pick up, I didn't pick up, I't take the court delivery, and I't go to go to the same court, and I's to the same name, and I's the same name, and I's the same name. And that is the problem in the Republic of Croatia, the problem of irresponsibility and I would say the conduct of inappropriately the duties of certain persons, the boasting if you want to laugh in the face of the citizens and therefore the citizens have a certain, certain reluctance towards, according to the judiciary, and the problem is when politics and judicial authority protects such behaviour, the judicial authority means the President of the Supreme Court, Đuro Sesa, who is appointed, as is the same close friend of the Republic of Croatia, Judge Turudic and Djuro Sesa, is appointed by the President of the Republic of Croatia. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who also did not show herself about the kind of conduct of judges that is inappropriate as it should be. And the cream on the cake is ladies and gentlemen, the negative cream on the cake is to see that Mr. Turudic drove a Q8 Audi car worth more than 150,000 euros and got it replaced. Come on, Mr. Curaj, go fix the car so they can give you Q8 I wonder how many of our fellow citizens are going to get the car 150,000 euros as a substitute while leaving their car for repair. So what kind of message is that? The judge of the largest court in the Republic of Croatia, which is very socially active, gives everyone lessons, moralises, explains who's what, gets the replacement car Q8, hey, 150,000 euros. So I would say if I were sorry, and I'm sure my colleague Brkic did, I'm sorry, I'm an official, I live in Croatia where people live hard, they go away, I can't accept getting such a replacement car worth over a million kuna, who some house or a better apartment in the city of Zagreb and rides with him 140 on a roadside next to Bjelovar. What kind of message is that? Tell us, Mr. Sesa, do you eat this judge's behavior and do you see anything problematic in that or Mr. Bosnakovic who can also react, which is why you protect such behavior? And until we remove this kind of behavior, we're in vain of this kind of action because people will see that those responsible, those who have power in their hands don't act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164876	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. After all, you have returned to the subject of praise. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164877	Thank you very much. In your debate, you well pointed out the importance of trust in the institutions, trust in the police, trust in the judiciary, and this example of the county judge, the head judge of the County Court in Zagreb, Turudic further ruined the trust in the judiciary which is otherwise very low. But his arrogant behavior towards the police was really inappropriate for every conviction. What I was actually going to say in this replica, but I had to touch this one, that we have to send another message today, which is that Croatia does not have an emergency helicopter medical service. So this large number of fatalities in car accidents can be reduced by the urgent care of all those injured, and in Croatia this is not possible because we do not have an emergency helicopter medical service, although we are through discussions on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, although we have asked the Ministry of Health to deal with the emergency care of the disabled as soon as possible, this is still unfortunately not done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164878	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164879	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic, here I agree with you and I appeal here to the police and the Ministry of Health to deal with it. And I can announce here that I look forward to the report by the President of the Supreme Court in the Croatian Parliament to explain to us this situation that I was just talking about, to protect my colleague and not to react besides healthy eyes to this all laughing in the face of Croatian citizens, Croatian institutions what Mr Turudic has done. And once again I ask you here, which one of you here would like to raise your hand if you came into the car house and took a 150,000-euro replacement car, here let me see your hand up. No one raises their hands, so none of these people would do it, but a judge in the largest court in the Republic of Croatia does it and laughs at all citizens in the face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164880	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164881	My colleague Maras has ten of us here in the assembly and we're not exactly a representative sample, but good. As you do, I support the announcement of a National Day without mobiles in traffic that should contribute to greater road safety as it says in the explanation that the 4th cause of road mortality and endangers the safety of mobile use. I'd especially like to point out the most common victims, and they're children. A few days ago, we held a thematic session on this issue at the Advocate General's Initiative for Children's Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So, unfortunately, Croatia is at the top of EU countries when we talk about child mortality. This year, in these nine, ten months, as many as nine children died. You also have children, which is an increase of 150% compared to the previous year and if this, and I believe that it wants to increase the development of transport culture and affect road safety, we need to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164882	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164883	Thank you very much. Mrs. Voter, I'm not ashamed to admit I've broken the law many times by talking in the car, and I shouldn't have, but I'm trying, yes, I admit it. Why would he lie to Croatian citizens of habit, sometimes you don't even think about it at all, but I'm getting better, and now it's very rarely happening to me, very rarely. And I'm trying in every way possible, but modern technology helps you with Bluetooth and this and that you can do some things without breaking traffic regulations. So on the other hand, we should try to bring people closer to their daily lives and enable them to be more secure for themselves and for others in traffic. So everything we do needs to be directed in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164884	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164885	Thank you, dear Vice President. First of all, my colleague Maras has made this one briefing and led us to the issue of Judge Turudić, although I am sad that there is more public talk of this offence than of urgency, about judges in terms of how many cases are being solved, how many are standing etc., and there is actually a real problem. This is a private matter and it is certain to condemn any such behavior. As for the replacement vehicle, I don't even know what that Q8 looks like, probably the ones that are here in the assembly or have, and I think they even pay something less. What I was also going to say when you were speaking now in conclusion with the use of a mobile phone, we now have a directive, or at EU level, that every car must necessarily be fitted with that pressure control in pneumatic tyres and why don't you tell me that everyone has to have the handfree Bluetooth device? It's a clear measure, it's a clear prevention and on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164886	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164887	I would not agree entirely with your replica because the problem of Judge Turudic, who claims the police are lying, is enormous. So the judge, the President of the Court of Justice in the city of Zagreb, claims the police are lying, it's amazing, means that it's even possible that the President of the Supreme Court doesn't see the problem in that, we, when we go as citizens to court and when the court asks a police officer and citizen, are always trusted to a police officer because he represents a state, there's no reason for a police officer to lie. And this is the judge, the president of the court in the city of Zagreb, saying the police are lying. If the Supreme Court president did not react, he is normal, I am surprised that the government is not responding, Minister Bosnjakovic, to protect at least the police after their actions. So what kind of political message is that? That we don't stand behind cops who are guaranteed our security and take care of security in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164888	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next debate, dear colleague of Snow White Sabolek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164889	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I commend and support the Croatian Association of Security Managers' proposal that one day a year be a day without mobiles in traffic. All people, especially children and young people, are not only threatened with the use of modern technologies in transport but also with possible negative consequences, observation, large amounts of data in the short time on the human brain, possible consequences of abuse for privacy and long-term effects of electromagnetic fields on the health of especially children who are being warned by the appeals of hundreds of scientists with tens of thousands of scientific works and the World Health Organization. Due to the rapid development of new technologies and growing applications, we need to look at all possible consequences as quickly and independently as possible, draw conclusions and apply best practices on protection, let us look at other countries. In France there is a ban on wifi in kindergartens and limited in schools. Italy also prefers a more quality and secure optical network. Paris has 800 times lower levels of radiation than Croatia. Belgium, forbidden wifi in kindergartens and residences of children up to 3 years old. Forbidden cell phone to children under 7 years of age and limited children to 14 years of age. When we talk about security in the use of modern technology such as smartphones, tablets and similar devices, we need to be aware of all possible consequences of excessive use of not only traffic safety. One elementary school in Zagreb is conscious enough to see through the day alone. Why not have one such day of the year when the education of the population is conducted especially by children and parents? Devices such as mobile, wi-router, telecommunications base stations and are similar sources of electromagnetic fields that the World Health Organization has classified under the possible cancer for humans and warned about the use of human safety education on the use of these devices and possible consequences, and not on taking precautions to minimise exposure to radiation to the greatest extent possible, this is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the resolution of the European Parliament, which places a special emphasis on the protection of children and young people as the most vulnerable to head tumours. The education and information of the population is also prescribed by measure 10, the General Access Strategy and the Ministry of Health should be implemented but not implemented. The video of an educational video, which discusses precautions for the use of mobile devices and the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation, is carefully hidden on the Ministry's pages and is hard to find even those who have learned about it. He didn't justify the means that he... invested in his recording because he didn't come to the public, into schools and among the parents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what is being kept silent in Croatia, and it is forbidden to talk about it. The Living Wall, in collaboration with the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, has created a new Law on Protection against Non-ionizing radiation and has organized a series of stands, a tribin from the hosting of a world-renowned scientist from the Royal Institute in Stockholm, which grants the Nobel Prize for Medicine Prof.... Johanson who before arriving in Zagreb received a threatening call to his private phone not to come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the 200 invited journalists, none responded. Ivan Vilibor Sincic spoke on the subject yesterday in the EU Parliament and warned of the situation in Croatia, for the first time about the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation and extremely liberal... to set up base stations systematically debated in the Croatian Parliament, at the the thematic session of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature held at the initiative of the then president of my Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, he called on all competent institutions, there you could see how low the level of ability of the central bodies and institutions of the Republic to protect their population and resist the interests of the teleper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is literally valued and our citizens' health is sold for their profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164890	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164891	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, I just want to take special advantage of these minutes, two individual debates to apostrophe what you've brought out of the debate, which is from the replica, which is from my debate in front of the club. I think it's also important to work here as a representative of the ministry, so, about 5 to set up, 5 basic areas of traffic safety. One, infrastructure, that's what I explained. 2, education, 3 prevention, 4 awards and 5 as the last repression. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I think I said well about the state of traffic, horizontal, vertical signalling, education also, absolutely through education in schools, both theoretically and on polygons to introduce in cooperation with the ministry, this is extremely important. As for prevention, as the most important perhaps of these 5 per me, I would point out once again that all the vehicles that are being purchased, especially new, must have a mandatory built-in system of heinz free or Bleutooth system of exchange to become, not additional equipment that will cost our citizens, so if you want it to become something that the government or the state itself will finance, because yet about half a billion are incomes from penalties, so we use that money, we equip all cars and for those existing ones to be additionally installed if it can and that state subsidises, this is the way of thinking in the right direction of prevention, about traffic safety, not only the repression of food we go to raise that system, it is nothing revolutionary, now the European Commission has adopted a resolution or a directive that all new cars have to have to have that system of pressure control in... So and this, why should we have to wait for someone in Europe to do their heavy procedures, we can already do it tomorrow and I hope if the government doesn't, I will personally go with some legal proposal in that direction. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, finally once again as the same, another novelty is rewarding through various reliefs, for vehicle owners to disburse financially, that this can again from the same budget, practically a dedicated budget can be used by those who respect traffic regulations and less pay certain obligations as to the state, which according to so-called. The Centre for Vehicles Croatia, which I say again, is another topic and I hope that we will also succeed in liberalising it once. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164892	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164893	Comrade Curaj, I agree with you, and let's take a step further which will certainly be two in a year's time, probably in all directives and European legislation, and that is to ask, to move both in this direction and in terms of speed limits, most cars of the newer now have built-in speed sensors, it can very easily be installed as a speed blocker that the car cannot drive in that area faster than what the limit is at that moment. So that's where it can be done, and believe me, in a year or two or three, it'll become a standard in the EU, and we won't have any more problems, nor will Judge Turudic be able to drive in the Q8 140 around Bjelovar, so we could do that, we could do that. And that. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164894	My colleague Curai's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164895	I thank that, it is a step further, one day safe when technology enables us to actually make that technology available to us, it already exists today, only unfortunately is not available to normal and ordinary citizens, that in this direction it is going and it is precisely the sumarum of this whole today's debate, prevention, not repression. As far as this replacement vehicle is concerned, I don't know, it sounds nice, and it's probably paying for something extra a month, but it seems I have to admit a lot of things that are out of proportion to the state where we are and the duties that individuals perform, but I'm getting into it that everyone has the right to spend their money whatever he wants, no matter what it looks like if everything is done right. So, this proposal for me is pretty good and I think we can expect something like that in the near future, unfortunately we're far from that standard, but that doesn't mean we don't have to think that way and go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164896	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164897	Thank you, dear Vice President. So esteemed colleague Curaj, it may not be a problem for you with your incomes to pay for additional equipment in the Bleutooth device in a new car, but we have citizens here who can't afford it, and it's not necessary because Bleutooth devices can be bought today in the form of heinz free headphones or such devices and can be applied to older vehicles, meaning it has nothing to do with vehicles, so many people have GPS in the car that can also work through Bleutooth and talk over the speaker, so it's not necessary that the car must have serially installed Bleutooth in order for a man to talk on the phone. So there are options that ordinary citizens can afford, but that's the choice, the penalties are quite large and I think people are very careful whether they talk on the phone or not, but let's give them the possibility that they can and use cheaper equipment that actually serves the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164898	Thank you. My colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164899	Thank you. Well, I don't know why you had to throw this stuff away about receiving even though mine are smaller than yours, statistics are far better, but well, I guess that's more like hanging out with the citizens, so you didn't listen to me very carefully... I'm talking about the council, well done, if it's a man, make as much money as I'm concerned. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You didn't listen to me very carefully, I said in new vehicles, and that the state subsidized from the revenue from the penalties, the installation, not the citizens, but the state they charge, transferred it to install the obligation into all new ones, and in the existing to subsidize and pay for the placement, so that's on that trail, I said. I think it's usually something that's very possible and feasible and I say personally I'll try to advocate with the competent ministry, if not with a personal legal proposal for it, I think it's something that will certainly increase the safety of all traffickers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164900	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please. My colleagues, please do not disturb my colleague Ostojić, here is my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164901	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, I thank you on behalf of both committees for internal policy and national security, transport and infrastructure precisely for a constructive debate and I also believe that this is one of the measures that will improve road safety. I thank the Association of Managers equally for their initiative, I hope all of you to support this proposal also the MUP to step up its efforts through the National Road Safety Programme. I must thank this occasion that regardless of the party's colors, it was a constructive debate with a goal and a intention to strengthen security, of course, in the care of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164902	Thank you. We have a replica to thank you for. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like one more time, please, Mr. Shucker something gestures No, but I see a surprise on your face, so I was worried that some of it wasn't a problem, no. [[You don't have anything.]] Uh, I just wanted to once again at the end and commend my colleague Ostojić and the committee who recognized the importance of this whole story, to appeal that we should rise above any division because this is about the interest of Croatian citizens, or to do everything to ensure that traffic safety is on as high as possible and to show that this is not acceptable behavior as it should not be acceptable and behavior, here is the Google and surfing as Mr Schuker is doing at this point in his cell under the table, no. So on that side, here's just something else I wanted to mention, and hopefully we'll all give support to fellow staff and committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164904	My colleague Maras, please don't call the MPs 'cause you're doing the same. We have a response to the replica. Dear colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164905	I'm going to join this here, and that's that there's no need for this quality debate and this situation that we've had, I think, and a good proposal in some way to lead to a personal one, and so I would suggest that we just stick to the situation, which is that today we make one conclusion that the quality thing is on the agenda and that in that sense this should be spoken. I'm thanking you one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164906	I thank my colleague Ostojić. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the committee presidents, Mr. Ranko Ostojic and Peri Cosic for the reasons and thank the Secretary of State in the MUP with a co-worker for participating in this debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164907	Proposal for a Decision declaring October 21st National Day without mobiles in traffic. The proposer is the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, the debate is closed. During the debate, the applicants accepted amendments to the Government and they became an integral part of the proposal for a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision declaring October 21st to the National Road Safety Day. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 109 for and 1 against the decision to declare October 21st to the National Road Safety Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164908	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2018, with financial indicators, is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 6. The Strategic Stocks Act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. I would like to ask the representative of Mr Dark Horvat, Minister of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts to give us an additional brief explanation of the report on the state of supply for 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164909	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives in the report in front of you is a detailed display of the business of commodity supplies carried out by the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, the Directorate for Stocks as an administrative organisation within the Ministry. Its submission reports by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the operation of state goods stocks in the reporting year took place in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the rules applicable to the budget and the budgetary users and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In 2018, all the basic financial reports were drawn up and submitted within the legal period to the competent ministry for the purpose of drawing up a consolidated report, the Financial Agency and the State Audit Office. The annual accounting determined the result of the operation or showed its revenue and expenditure. In 2018 total revenues of 70,297,000 kuna, expenditures of 94,460,000 were made and a deficit was achieved in the financial year of revenue at 24,163,000 kuna. The lack of income came from the acquisition of new strategic stock supplies from funds transferred as surplus income and income from 2017 and covered from that surplus. In 2019, the remaining surplus revenue of € 32,477,000 shall be transferred for 2019, which will be used for the most part for the purchase of goods and for the completion of the balance sheet of the strategic stock stocks and for the necessary investments in its own warehouses. In short, I will also explain the key elements of the report submitted to you. The largest items of total income achieved in 2018 were the operating revenues for the financing of the regular activity of the beneficiaries of the budget, which amounted to just over 43,262,000 kuna and account for almost 62% of the total revenue. The proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets amounting to slightly more than €27.034,000, and the realisation of the rulings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the sale of the strategic supply of oil for storage and the collection of revenue from earlier years and the recording of the aid to Caritas. In addition, there are also revenues from the rent of their own storage facilities, from fees and interest. Total expenditure and expenditure in 2018 amounted to almost 94,461,000 kuna and almost 20% higher by 20 compared to 2017. There has been an increase in expenditure in the reporting year due to a change in the balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks, i.e. significant increases in strategic commodity stocks and market stocks in the agricultural and food and non-food segment. A total of nearly 69 million and 152,000 kunas were spent in 2018, which is 28.6 million kunas more money spent on purchase and... the stock than in 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following this, on 31 December 2018 the total value of the stock, goods, real estate and equipment was 618 million and 576 000 kuna. I would like to point out that by 31% the cost of maintaining its own warehouses has been reduced by the cost of official travel, for the inventory itself, for the services of current investment maintenance and some other services. The requests on 31 December 2018 amount to a total of 61 million and 280 000 kn and are almost 86% lower compared to the previous year 2017. Such a significant reduction of the claim has occurred due to the application of the amending and supplementing Regulation on budgetary accounting and the budgetary plan and the implementation of the correction of the value of the claims themselves. It is about claims that have been violated by the largest act by 2004, sued or reported in bankruptcy proceedings and turned to criminal proceedings for responsible persons. The total liabilities on 31 December 2018 amount to slightly less than 5 million and 815 000 kn with a maturity of payment in January 2019. The goods from the strategic stocks were taken care of at 168 locations where the annual list of strategic stock stocks was conducted and inventory of water, sugar and milk powdered in value of 8.7 million kn was established and administrative solutions were issued requiring the refund of the goods concerned. I would like to remind you that in the reporting year, we also had two situations where interventions from strategic stockpiles provided a basic supply of the population. One of the cases in question was the flood of the Carlovakia and Sisak-Moslavina County and the other ecological disaster of water pollution in the Slavonski Brod area. In addition, Caritasu's Križevci epiharia is a slave aid for the needs of the poorest families in basic foods worth more than 7 million kuna. Dear MPs, respected representatives, precisely strategic stockpiles in emergency situations ensure smooth and timely intervention and removal of consequences and exclude market dependence, production, import and international aid sectors. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a decision to amend the balance sheet of strategic goods stocks, increasing the quantities of fire and flood protection equipment such as multi-purpose auto-cister, hydraulic scissors and mobile dams, boxing flood defence barriers and new fire-fighting drones will also be introduced. Dear MPs, respected MPs, following all of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Parliament to accept the report on the state and management of the stock for 2018, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164910	Thanks to the respected minister, we have several replicas, a respected colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, given the great malversions that took place in the stock reserves 10 years ago, and I'm particularly thinking about the disappearance of wheat and corn from silos, I wonder if, in addition to the litigation of disputes, we have as some kind of concrete court ruling, that's one question and another question, has the introduction of personal debtors to responsible persons in warehouses been corrected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164912	Thank you. Answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164913	Thank you, Your Honor. So I believe that such situations are within which certain strange manipulative actions and disadvantages and some other shortcomings within the functioning of the system have taken place, that such a situation is behind us and that at this point all those who are in any way involved in the construction of the system and maintenance of the system in question, the Ministry of the Economy of the Department of Stocks shall approach certain binco exchanges which are payable or payable on the first call so that anyone who, at one time, wishes to be involved in the creation or functioning of the supply system in that trade of goods and services with a binco debtor, or a certain guarantee, guarantees a good realization of all those contracts that the principal has concluded with private entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164914	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164915	Dear Ministers, since it's working on strategic stock reserves, the total amount here said, I'm looking at it from a security point of view, if at 168 locations we have strategic stock reserves, I'm not sure we can keep it in the best way any evidence is also these gaps that are actually happening. What I am pleading for is that to remove the consequences and everything else is invested much more in a infrastructure that is very useful in the matter of drones, tanks and everything else that helps citizens and in the regular business, but my message is not in any negative sense, because I believe that a country like Croatia with 800m euros of strategic stock reserves that are included in real estate and everything else, I am not sure that it can be prepared to remove all the consequences that can happen. For this reason, I plead reinforcements in the equipment, a reduction in the number of positions it is in, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164916	Thank you. Answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164917	Thank you very much for the suggestion, it goes exactly in the direction of all of our activities, I'm sure you've noticed, so the number is 168, and we've cut it already in 2018, but considering that the directorship is currently owned by 71 auto-cystic, so that's 71 locations, if you take into account that the fire community today almost 30 places is holding mobile dams to prevent floods, new boxing dams and all that the fire community needs, so we're not talking about specific locations at this point because they are categorized or classified with the category "very confidential", but thanks to the suggestion, we have the same attitude, and we're going to try to do the same thing, and we're going to do the absolute number of these things on the site.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164918	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thanks for the short answer. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164919	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, please explain when we talk about procurement, the report says that the purchase of goods worth 1 195 116,20 kuna was made on the basis of simple or exaggerating purchases. Namely, according to the 2018 Strategic Stock Stocks Review, I only have fire packs and electric heaters far below the threshold of £200,000 worth of exaggeration. All these other thresholds are out, like flour is 337 000, which is the lowest of these other goods, right, drinking water, rice, salt kitchen, meat breakfast. So, why was the leprosy supply being carried out, for which it was produced, and was that necessary? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164920	Thank you. Answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164921	So, if you agree, I will give you a written answer to this question in detail, so I would ask if it is possible that or if the matter is referred to the ministry, I would not like to talk about the specific quantities and about the specific locality, I said already, they are classified by the veil of secrecy. Subjective acquisitions take place within the Secretariat itself, all of these processes, including the State Audit process, have been qualified as fully correct, the 2018 State Audit of the Ministry of Economy is without any conditional attitude or opinion, I will give you the issue in written form and the response in question, but also with the obligation to define and declare this written response as a document which is not subject to the availability and knowledge of the general public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164922	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164923	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, I must say, when we debated in the past year, I didn't look so much at this financial part, I'm more interested in this security aspect and the stock structure, but this financial part is amazing to me. So we're specifically looking at 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 165 million kn from customers plus 233 million interest. Now I ask you how to sell goods? By putting someone in public somewhere that they'll buy, take over the goods and never pay? I hope it's not a practice anymore, that you can't sell anything until the money's on the bill. So when we look at the structure, now we've written off 100% of those who are over 3 years old, 50% of the value correction of those who are 1 to 3 years old, so here we have a five-year budget with all the purchases we're asking customers for what we bought and sold. Is it some hidden funding, I don't know what it is but a way to get someone to do something without him paying it, I absolutely don't get it, I hope it doesn't work that way anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164924	Thank you. Answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164925	Here, very briefly, I'm sure you noticed in the report that by almost 86% of the total claims we reduced, so they started certain criminal proceedings, they started administrative procedures to restore what is at one point and history dates back to 2004, through the stock reserves given for storage and at this point as goods that are given by certain dynamics... This same company, the company, the company, the company is not able to return and we have no choice but to start a criminal proceedings against such a firm, some of them at the moment are or are in the liquidation phase, some of them are in pre-determined deals, one small part of them are living today, and through the administrative procedure, I am sure that one part of these investigations are returned, but in view of 2017 or 2018, almost 80% of what the state is looking for through the stock reserves is or is written off because companies are in pre-demand agreements or liquidations, the rest we will try to return. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164926	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick, here's your colleague, Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164927	My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. You've given one full review of the stock, but what I consider important is to highlight and that's why there's a supply in the first place. We are witnessing that several years ago there have been more and more crisis situations, more and more elemental disasters, and precisely in all these natural disasters, as requested by the terrain, goods stocks have been used. I think they should be further strengthened, equipped and, of course, fully supported in that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164928	Thank you. Answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164929	Thank you, well-respected parliamentary representative, for asking. So looking at the system and the functioning of the supply system, the system 15 years ago compared to today's threats is completely different through changes and in the past 10 years there have been 4, we have five times changed or changed the balance of strategic stock reserves a few days ago, so in the past year we have acquired new 12 combined or auto-cisteries, this year we'll get 20 more, we're getting rid of non-competitive diesel and petrol fuels that can't be placed on the market right now, but we have to use them through the refinery system in Rijeka, so some things are considered unnecessary at this point in the supply system and they're being released, other specific moments and tools and needs are almost on the monthly basis getting and buying. So the system of strategic stock is a dynamic process and changes year after year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164930	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164931	Thank you very much. My question is simple, so when we look at the review of the strategic commodity supplies obtained in 2018, it is a simple and logical question, so many of these products that we see here do not need to be in strategic stock at all, it is clear to me that certain non-food products that we need at some point and that it is very difficult to get that moment when it comes to floods or something, it needs to be obtained as much as possible and we need to have it constantly in preparation but certain food products, badges that can be purchased at that time, means on the market when you look at some of these products, you can get 10 times that time if you need to go to a foreign country, I don't see why they're on supplies, so I'm interested in what are the priorities and based on what are we're going to get from food products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164932	Thank you. Answer, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164933	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. So on simple questions, the answers are always simple, so the profession defines what is needed, we are not only the ones who define priorities as we do today almost on a daily basis with the fire community, as we communicate with civil protection, we are also working with the food college and we are getting the sport and the needs of the profession depending on what threats are expected and they are primarily fires and floods in the past few years. So you must have in strategic stock reserves a particular food contingent that you can put on the market at the same time but in the supply system. We had these two cases in 2018 and fortunately, in segments or warehouses of stock, we had all the necessary food products we needed and then to ensure the supply of that population that was affected by the elemental accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164934	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164935	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, there is no need to point out the basic and obviously, the report on the management of stock stocks, I think it is clear why it is important, unfortunately in recent years, that it is not here in 2018, if I am well aware of this report, we only had two cases in the last year of the use of stock stocks at a higher level, but history has taught us that in the past years we have been very much dependent on both supplies and on the floods and whether the fires, whether the migrant crisis, anything else, that is extremely structural and infrastructureally important and crucial in the action of the state of our citizens and security in general. The structure is believed to be what it is, I would just say, to manage all these supplies annually costs taxpayers 15 million kuna, so there are various fees, costs, wages, material costs, etc., so insurance premiums and everything else. What I can commend to say is that the annual cost of a stock-based representation is just over £2,000, so really the one basic part about those people who work, who invest and who take care of it. What I mentioned in the replica, which is not clear to me, the practice of a long-term, when certain stocks are sold, is that, in the last year, the revenues of the business were 43 million kunas when they were sold, let's say, the walks from the sale of certain stock stocks that last year were only 27 million kunas and the year before that even 89 and then when we watch the purchases, that we have so much debt that it's certainly a practice that needs to be stopped right now because I'm not talking here when it's actually talking to someone about the sale of stock stocks because the buyer is the one who buys, not the one who keeps, that 165 million kn of which we've reprogramted 33 million, so now it's gone into long-term commitments, the question wants to return and from these normal claims, 85 million kn, of which... Almost 48. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're now more or less down to drastically. So the correction of the value of the claim is total for last year -326 million kuna. You remember at the beginning, I said it cost 15 million kuna a year. It is the cost, of course, of entering and constantly restoring and supplying and inventory, of new structures. And now it's incomprehensible to me that someone was involved in the purchase, maybe giving some guarantees because we see this very well done, 15 different companies, right, so table no. 6, review of claims where more than a million kuna per company... debt and year of application of the actions taken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the beginnings of the years are in 2012, '97, '98, 2006, 2000, then there's something more recent in 2011, 2004, then '99, '98, '99, '95, etc., etc., of course we had to write it down, of course it had to be cleaned up, and it's good to subdue one line for each time, however, there are newer ones, something and 2018 is listed here, 2017, 2012, 2014, so it's incomprehensible for me to have someone participate in some kind of competition, I guess that's how it goes, lay down certain guarantees, see that there's even some stock of real estate or debt and then don't pay. And then we spend 20 years making him pay for it. The man used that money, what he did with that slave, I don't know, so I'd really pray that in the next sales that are made and I say, last year it was all if I wasn't wrong, 27 million and 34 000 kuna, that this stuff was sold at the time that... It's possible if it's someone's guarding or something that it's not selling goods, but at the time of the transaction and when someone becomes in possession, comes into possession or becomes the owner of it, it can't be, meaning, as with real estate, it can't be paid, and I don't think it's the basis of this indifference or not indifference because this is liquid and the state budget is being funded, and even there's a claim to the state budget based on these surpluses that were used last year, but I just don't really understand it during that period that it's been generated so much and that so much has been cleaned up by the team more if we've cleaned it, then we're also not clear that the lack of income of 24 million kuna that's just being marked that we've used extra income from the previous years so we bought some property here. the reservation made but this isn't a company so there's no reservation but we were doing a value correction, we signed 300 million kuna, so it should be a loss of the astronomical so I don't understand this way of financial reporting, I have to say it's not economic, so it's not my profession about some system either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the value is concerned, I think that over half a billion kunas as far as stockpiles and another 100 million in real estate and equipment are concerned, so 618 million kunas of supplies are definitely growing, last year up to 7.5%, a little bit more, so that's what's important that we always anticiptate what we need today, not what we need tomorrow, but what we're going to need next years, and that are potential threats that these stocks are being used and, of course, what's most important, that everything that's in the supply system can be used in some way, in some way, can be used, if we talk about voluntary fire companies, at our DVDs and other systems of local self-government units or regionals that can then be used in more ways, not just standing somewhere or stored, and being at its value and not using it, which is more, I don't really think that't. As far as the systems themselves are concerned, it's absolutely clear to all of us that we need it, it's a well-organized system that has already proved countless, unfortunately, countless times when we should have invested more and more, because it's security as well as no price and, of course, smart planning is also the cheapest, so... That report, I ask you only this argument, if not, what the minister has already said, absolutely that this practice in the sale of stock supplies is no longer happening, that you take any collaterals but, when the money sits down then you transfer ownership and give someone further what they want with it, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164936	I thank my colleague Curai. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Angelko Strick, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164937	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Strategic stockpiles play an important role in the social, social and humanitarian areas of each country and in exceptional situations. It contributes to defence action, more effective action of the system of protection and rescue and sustainability of the economy under conditions of threat, therefore the creation, maintenance and territorial distribution of strategic commodity stocks is of national importance. In recent years, the Republic of Croatia has rarely faced natural disasters where strategic stocks have been used to help citizens affected by these disasters. In 2014, catastrophic floods struck the eastern Slavonia and the Department of Stock Stocks intervened immediately after the request of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and directed food and equipment for the care of the population. During 2015 and 2016, the Republic of Croatia was faced with a large flow of migrants. According to official data from the MUP, from the beginning of the migrant crisis to March 2016, 65 068 migrants entered Croatia, in which case the Ministry of Stocks has engaged in the supply of goods and equipment worth more than 18 million kn in 2016 with more than 2 million kuna. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Split-Dalmatia County, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Zadar, and Sibenik-Kninska, suffered a large number of fires and the directorship intervened with 18 auto-cistern. In 2018, the Carlovakia and Sisak-Moslavina County districts were faced with large floods and the Department of Stocks at the request of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue intervened from a motor pump, 7 flood pumps and 3 large capacity pumps, 2 drinking water taxis, 4 sandbags and 19 428 liters of drinking water in bottles divided by the Croatian Red Cross to the population of the flooded area. Due to the ecological disaster of water pollution in the area of Slavonski Brod, the Director's Department for Stocks hastily intervened with 10 auto-cisterns who, upon receipt of the request, delivered the first quantity of water for drinks in the Slavonski Brod area within a short time period. 37 inox canisters for drinking water have been delivered. On the first day of intervention 65 424 liters of water for drinking in bottles and an emergency order for additional quantities of water has been made. These examples show how and in what challenges goods are used. When we talk about the very structure of stock stocks for 2018, the greatest value is the following products. wheat, euro diesel, multi-purpose tanks, corn, adventurous meat in the living, tents, sugar, a whole day's dry meal, meat cans, water pumps, pig meat in the living, fish cans, housing containers and vessels. From all of the above, the importance of stockpiles is evident in order to be ready at any moment for the challenges ahead of us whether they are crisis situations or elemental disasters. So I note that the HDZ Club will support this report, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164938	Thank you. colleague Ivan Lovrinović is not present, colleague Gordan Maras is not present, colleague Sasa Djujic is not present. I conclude the debate, thank the secretary of state with a co-worker, Mr. Maria Antonic, on the grounds, we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-04-0.u164939	Reports on the state and management of stock stocks for 2018 with financial indicators. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2018 is accepted by fa financial indicators." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 20 abstentions and 7 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body. Now it is up to the respected colleague Ivan Lovrinovic as an independent representative. Here you go.
