ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166529	So, we move to: - Annual State aid report for 2018 The applicant of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 17. State aid laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would like the representative of the report's applicant, the respected Secretary of State, Mr Zdravko Zrinasic, to give us an additional explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166530	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on State aid on the basis of data from the Register of State Support and Small Value Support, the Ministry of Finance shall draw up an annual report on State aid provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Assembly. The Register of State aid and small-value support established under this Act and it is a unique electronic database, contains data on individual state aids and state aid schemes for there is an obligation to report to the European Commission and which is excluded from this obligation. Therefore, the information on the aid granted to the State and the aid of small value and other information necessary for the implementation of the State aid system. The notion of state support in our legislation has been taken over from EU legislation, and basic and state aid is a real and potential expenditure or reduced revenue from the state granted by the State's public support providers in any form that violates or threatens to distort competition by putting a more favourable position of a particular entrepreneur or a product or service. According to the law, state support providers are the central authority of the state administration, the unit of local and regional self-government and any legal person who grants state support and support of small value. At the level of the central state in 2018 there were 10 ministries as providers of state support, 3 agencies, the Agency for Electronic Media, for coastal liner maritime transport and the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment, then two funds, the Fund for Reconstruction and Development of Vukovar and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, then there were HBOR, the Croatian Tourist Board, the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, the Croatian Operator of Croatian Energy, the Croatian Employment Service, the Croatian Institute for the Protection and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities The Annual Report contains data on the allocations of state support and support of small value, agriculture and fisheries. Although these support is not subject to this Act on State aid but rather to the rules on agriculture and fisheries in order to look at the full picture of State aid and to include it in the annual report in Article 17 of the Law, it is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries shall provide information to the Ministry of Finance on the aid granted and support of small value agriculture and fisheries. This annual report is 16th in a row, and for the second time it is produced solely on the basis of information on the aid granted to the State and small-value support provided by the aid providers through the said Register of State aid and small-value support. So he started working on January 1st 2017. The annual report shall contain an analytical representation of all state aid and support of small value allocated to the Republic of Croatia in the last year with revised State aid data and small-value support two years earlier, i.e. 2017 and 2016. When presenting and comparing state aid with the underlying macroeconomic indicators, the Ministry of Finance uses its own databases as well as the DZS and CNB data. Methodology... the presentation of state aid is based on the rules laid down by law or in accordance with the methodology for showing state aid used in the EU, which is also used by the European Commission in the implementation of the State aid statement and presentation of data in the EU. In this respect, it should also be recalled that the European Commission also publishes information on certain state aids for all EU Member States in its support report. On the basis of the above mentioned methodology, state support is essentially shared in two areas. First is support for industry and services and second is support for agriculture and fisheries. State aid shall be granted through different forms or instruments of allocation such as subsidies, direct interest subsidies, tax exemptions, equity shares, financial transfers, issued and activated or protested guarantees, etc., and in this report shall be shown by individual categories, then by instruments, and by other data. As regards aid in industry and services, given the categories and objectives of granting it, they are shared in horizontal support, sectoral support, regional support and support at unit level and local and regional self-government, respectively. As regards horizontal support for them, the name of good support is used, i.e. those highlighted in the guidelines of the State aid policy in the Republic of Croatia as one of the important objectives of economic policy and in the process of modernising the state aid that the European Commission has launched since 2012. Horizontal support concerns, for example, support for research and development, innovation, environmental protection and energy savings, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, rehabilitation, restructuring, employment, improvement, culture and heritage protection, etc. As regards regional and support at the level of units of local self-government and also two support features horizontal support, but because of their specificity in terms of sharing in regions or methodologically, it is particularly evident that their effects are being seen. Supports related to data that are particularly indicated include support for small values, etc. de minimis support, which is also shown separately in this report although they are not considered State aid within the meaning of the law itself, or EU rules. That report shall take into account a large number of support providers both at central or local or regional level. Otherwise, I would like to remind myself of the definition of small value support, which does not amount to more than 200000 euros in kuna equivalent per user over the three fiscal years. The basic data from the 2018 Annual State Aid Report are as follows: a total of €14.81 billion was allocated, which is an increase of €2.35 billion and 18.8%, respectively, compared to the year 2017 when the aid amounted to €12.46 billion and an increase of €3.39 billion, and 29.7%, respectively, compared to the year 2016 when the above aid amounted to €11.42 billion. The share of State expenditure support in 2018 was 11.25%, in 2017. 9.97% and 2016 9.5%. Therefore, according to the data recorded in the Register of State aid, the continuation of the growth of State aid granted was demonstrated in 2018. This growth is an acceleration at the annual level, as, for example, in 2017, the growth rate at the annual level was 9.2%. In the structure of state aid of a total of 14 as I said 14,81 billion of aid granted to the agriculture and fisheries sector is 6.16 billion kuna or 41.59% while state aid granted to the industry and services was 8.65 billion kuna or 58.41% of the total aid granted. In this context, state support in the agriculture and fisheries sector is increasing by 954 million kuna while support granted to the industry and services sector is increasing by 1.4 billion kuna. The share in the state aid structure has not been significantly changed taking into account the State aid recorded in the last three years and ranging from 43.3 to 41.6% in agriculture and fisheries, and 56.7 to 58.4% in the industry and services sector. This trend of growth has affected the increase in their share of GDP by increasing it to 3.88% in 2018 while, for example, it was 3.41%) in 2017 and 2016 in 2016. 3.35%. If you see how much state aid was granted per employee in 2018, it is evident that there was an increase of 1522.33 kuna or 17.2%, totalling 10 thousand 381 kuna and 78 lip per employee. At the same time, the increase per capita was 3 thousand 613.20 kuna, representing a growth of 21.7% or 644.85 kuna more compared to the previous year. In view of state support to industries, it is evident that during the previous periods, and in this year 2018 support has been granted through instruments such as subsidies and direct subsidies of interest, tax exemptions, exemptions, tax exemptions and contributions and reliefs, capital investments, favourable loans and state guarantees. So in 2018 to 14.81 billion kuna support was mostly granted through subsidies and direct interest subsidies, totalling 9.24 billion kuna or 62.4%,... State guarantees with 2.6 billion kuna or 17.6%, capital investments 1.56 billion kuna or 10.5%, then tax exemptions, exemptions, tax exemptions and contributions and reliefs totalling 17 kunas or 7.9% and 226 million kunas through favourable loans, which is 1.5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, according to the data presented in the annual report, it can be concluded that the main generator of the rise in state aid in the last year is due to the occurrence and collapse of the shipbuilding business model resulting in significant budgetary pressure due to calls for payments under the approved State guarantees following which a total of 2.5 billion kuna of state aid was recorded in 2018. This amount accounts for 17.1% of the total state aid and an extremely high 29.2% in the overall support of the industry and services sector. If this one-time budgetary impact is excluded due to calls for state guarantees to be paid, the increase in the total state aid in the last year is largely caused by state support for agriculture and fisheries, indicating the most intense efforts made in the development of agriculture and fisheries. It should be pointed out here that the growth of state aid does not necessarily have to bear negative economic connotations and, above all, relates to the determination of nature, purpose and types of State aid granted and their positive impact on the national economy. In particular, state support as an instrument of economic incentive affects competition and in the case of their quality structure, entrepreneurs can also benefit in the long term so that market competition distortions are diminished. The State aid structure granted to industry and services which are detailed in this report and which are presented in specific categories of State aid as well as the categories I mentioned earlier. Within the support sector, industry and services allocated in 2018 amounting to €8.6 billion, €5.3 billion, or 61.4%, refer to support granted to specific sectors while the amount of $ 3.3 billion or €38.6% refers to horizontal support. As we mentioned earlier, horizontal support is related, so-called. I would therefore briefly mention, in accordance with the eu methodology, the monitoring of support for this support at the level of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, and the support for horizontal objectives in the narrowest sense, namely support for R & D, environmental protection, energy conservation, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and then support for development and employment. In that 2018, regional support amounting to €3.3 billion was allocated and was lower by €1.3 billion or 28.4% compared to 2017. Supports allocated to horizontal objectives in a narrow sense amount to 2.1 billion kuna and are less than 65.5 million kuna or 3.1% compared to the achievement in 2017. The share of total horizontal aid in state aid, industry and services stood at 38.6% while horizontal state support in a narrow sense recorded a share of 23.8%. At the same time, sectoral support has been granted €5.3 billion, representing an increase of 2.7 billion kuna or a high 104.9% compared to the previous year and resulting from payments under state guarantees for shipyards. In doing so, the share of sectoral support on the aid granted to industry and services accounts for 61.4%. Therefore, the annual report shows that positive trends in the structure of state aid in favour of horizontal but due to the circumstances described, there has been an increase in sectoral support and negative budgetary impacts, which was of course also a challenge for public finances. It therefore follows that in 2018 there was a change in the intensity of the aid granted and this benefit of sectoral state aid, although it was, even though during 2017, they recorded an annual reduction rate of 768 million kuna or 22.8% in favour of the so-called good support or support of a horizontal nature. It is particularly important to emphasise this because horizontal support, as I have already mentioned in line with the guidelines of the State aid policy in the Republic of Croatia, is defined as one of the important objectives of economic policy as well as in the process called Modernisation of State aid launched by the European Commission as early as 2012, given that horizontal support has a significantly better impact on the economy and competitiveness and less negative effects on the collapse of competition compared to sectoral state aid. Therefore, the ultimate objective is to reduce the share of sectoral state aid and to work to the greatest extent possible on models that provide support for a horizontal nature. Regarding this topic, i.e. the problem, it is important to point out that in 2018, part of the protested state guarantees were recorded because the balance of state guarantees granted by creditors related to shipyards was charged in the payment dynamics of the creditor's calls during 2019. In view of the above circumstances, the year 2018 can be characterised as the year in which a positive trend in the improvement of the structure and strengthening of the intensity of the allocation of horizontal state aid but because of this effect mentioned earlier in the context of the shipyard continues, unfortunately this changes the picture and we can even conclude that this trend is not directed in this direction but towards sectoral support and as I said it will have an impact in 2019 given the already protested guarantees that the state has paid in the first part of this year. I note that, apart from horizontal and sectoral state aids in the annual report, small-value support has been presented and mentioned earlier, they are aids of 200,000 euros per entrepreneur over a 3 calendar year period. During the past period, in 2018, they were allocated from a billion to zeros of six kunas and were allocated to the largest part through subsidies of 926,6 million kuna, whose share in these total aids of small value, 87.3%. Then there are also guarantees allocated to the amount of HRK 39 million or 3.7% and capital investments with 33.3 million or 3.1%. From the presented data contained in this annual report, it can be concluded that the structure of the state aid granted suggests sufficient space to better recognise the need to determine advanced state aid models and improve the structure of the State aid programme with the ultimate objective of avoiding distortions of competition and the long-term positive impact on the Croatian economy. The process recognises the need for an even greater engagement of state aid providers and in line with the guidelines of the State aid policy of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, any State aid provider should respect economic and market principles in implementing economic policies from the proper allocation of state aid by monitoring their use and ultimately achieving the objectives set or strengthening the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Only the use of the register through which these support is collected shall be recorded immediately, these support and support of small value, enable better monitoring of the effectiveness of the granting of state aid and support of small value by all donors, which is particularly important in order to achieve better fiscal consolidation and transparency. That's it, thank you very much for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166531	I thank the Secretary of State for this submitted explanation of the report, and we have several replicas, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166532	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, through this annual report on state support, it is evident that some 800 million support has been given for small and medium-sized enterprises. Since small and medium entrepreneurship in the countries of environments is particularly of those strong economies, Belgian, Dutch, German, actually the bearer of economic growth, it is not visible here, let's say, through the annual report, what are the effects through the granting of these annual support for employment and growth. Is that, for example, in the next period or for the next report possible to see or not. As for the support itself, especially for small and medium enterprises, for example from the area, from the constituency I come from, they are also important in the cultivation of mandarins, the cultivation of olive growing, the vines which were actually visible and highly praised for 2018. So they got certain effects and it would be good to see them as such, their valorisation through this report or someone in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166533	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166534	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So just a report as I initially mentioned was structured and set up according to the methodology that was set in terms of... at EU level, and since these reports are also our own, the European Commission is uniting into one common for all Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, of course, it is not prohibited to record such data yourself but, perhaps, if appropriate in the report itself, to add to a special contribution and to see the effects of such measures because it is reasonable to say, as I have concluded, that the grantor of State aid and to worry about the effects of such support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166535	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Let's move on to the next line, dear colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, in 2018, the support of small value for encouraging island employers to preserve jobs on Croatian islands was 7.9 million kuna. Given that the European Directive provides that 200 000 euros per user of small value support is maximum in 3 years, I ask you that when creating the annual budget for the following year, the basis is the total number of applications submitted for 2019, namely, there is a situation where there is not enough money in the budget in order to fully pay for entrepreneurs on the islands how much the directive provides for them, and I think that the Ministry of Regional Development in this respect has also increased its demand somewhere to 10 million kuna, how much would it take to provide for each island employer, or for each of its employees, the amount provided for by the directive, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166537	Thank you. The answer, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166538	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your suggestions and your comments. In relation to de minimis support, they are thus set up precisely for these reasons that the European Commission and this law do not have an impact on them in terms of treatment because they are not considered support, meaning the meaning of the support and these support that I have mentioned earlier is that it is aimed at certain programmes that would be met and exercised such rights. It is clear that if there may be no programs on the islands that you can make and that they are both profitable and similar, as we have a law regarding the city of Vukovar, where the European Commission these days determines and examines these rights that we wanted to give to the city of Vukovar as a symbol, as well as islands in terms of preservation and jobs and people living there, we will certainly have to resort to some other methods to keep our people there, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166539	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166540	Thank you, Vice President. I'm curious as to why our entrepreneurs are asked to make small-value support statements when they make public calls for support. So in 2019, can't we have some kind of support register and not that people have to make some kind of public calls? If we're going to digitize more, if you're working on it, whether you're thinking about it or you mean our entrepreneurs of people who have had the courage to get into some kind of business, you're still burying them with the administration that they have to take statements instead of you having a register that's got all the state support, the state support of small value, get more serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166541	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166542	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So, in the context of small support and what you have said is that you are looking for specific statements, those in one particular part of the information was placed and there is no doubt, however, as regards regulations in terms of cumulative effects, de minimis support and other support, and in order to prevent subsidisation in certain legal norms, it is prescribed that the party itself has a previous statement in terms of having or not having to fix this as a certain evidence tomorrow in terms of attempting to abuse state aid. I'm not saying it's an excuse to give such a thing, but certain regulations require such actions which, of course, I don't have to say be an excuse for such a statement, here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166543	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166544	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said in your report that more than six billion support for agriculture has been paid off somewhere. We from HSS and agricultural producers are interested in how many of these are EU funds, how much from the national envelope, do you have that information? And I'm asking that because I don't think we pay the part from the national envelope as much as planned and as much as we should because we see that we have a decline in production both in cattle production and in milk production, and surely this part of the national envelope should pay off and increase... for 2020, especially for these sensitive sectors and secondly, since there are campaigns, elections, it seems Santa Claus has already arrived in the Republic of Croatia, and it has begun to be promised, so the minister promised at the fair in Bjelovar that during October an advance payment will be paid, so I ask you if the payment or the payment will be delayed as it has been postponed and 67 is too much? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166545	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166546	Here, thank you very much for asking the Honorable Mr. Representative, as I mentioned in the opening section, in accordance with Article. There, in the 17th of this law, which stresses that the support for agriculture is not the subject of this law, but is to create a total picture in terms of the state support given to the Ministry of Finance by the Ministry of Agriculture which means finished data are included in the register of support and in this sense the details that you are now talking about are available to the Ministry of Agriculture, only here, which shows that almost 950 million, slightly more than 950 million, have grown and supported in agriculture, so I believe that the good part of it is used and from the EU funds, so this one means only the report in itself is, just connected to this law and the other part of the question was, excuse me? Yeah, just like I said, so he didn't, he didn't connect to this report, or the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction, so in any case, the Ministry of Agriculture is... [[Employment: Payment of incentives and direct payments]] Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166547	Thank you. The next replica of Mr. Maras' esteemed colleague, please welcome fellow Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166548	Good afternoon, Mr Secretary of State, what is observed in this report is the decline and horizontal support in 2018, it's something we can't support in any way, it means 4.5 to 3.5 billion and when we see the structure, but when you see what everything in the RS support is paid off, so when you see in the industry for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in 2018. Only 128 million kuna support, and for HRT billion and 200 million kuna. So, now compare for industry, all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who hire hundreds of thousands of people pay 10 times less support than HRT, which unfortunately serves HDZ as their promotional service, and now you know what that is and that's something we can't agree on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166549	Thank you. State Secretary Zrinasic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166550	Here, thank you, Mr. MP, so we can structure this data in a way and observe in the context of medium and small entrepreneurship and deminimus support, so if this billion more were collected in that part, it would give a slightly different picture, but in any case you are right in the context of a trend that was in 2018, but it is mostly due to the influence of the public guarantees charged for shipbuilding sites, of course it should be done by all donors who are an exceptional number, above all there are all local and regional government units who are also involved in providing these support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166551	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166552	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, what is crucial is, in fact, the support is not the very intensity of the support, but the effect they have on the sectors where they are given. What we can see for many years is public transport support, where at the time of such aid, public transport prices were significantly lower, as the support was introduced, that means the support went both by the state and by regional and local self-government, so there was growth. One is that growth, I would say organically when there's an increase in energy prices or some other elements of price calculation, but here we see that actually this impact of self-support is lost. Here is what we can now follow on the real estate market where with the support that truly have a valuable goal, we see that it has caused a disturbance on the market where absolutely the prices of real estate have increased and the supply and demand relations that have been disrupted. Therefore, it is very important to monitor the support provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166553	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166554	Here, thank you very much for... and the finding and conclusion that you are right about trends, of course, that every donor should follow the effects in the sense that these same support does not go into something that will not have an effect, in that sense the concept of the law is set, and in the end, if we want to and the criminal law, that this, that support must not be misused in terms of protecting competition because we must not create unfair competition in relation to something supporting or something that is on a healthy, healthy basis, but that the government or local self-government units may and should use the support in this part that you have mentioned and have the effects necessary in terms of the objectives set. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166555	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166556	Thank you very much. Given some criticism during these replicas, Mr. Secretary of State, I think you missed one very important thing to say. You're just a service to say so to the Parliament and the Government, and the information is provided by the support providers. And despite the fact that both the basis of the law and the basis of the regulations are due precisely at the time when they grant that support to enter into the register, many of them unfortunately do not. And that's a fact to say here. For the same reason of the Croatian public, it is ugly to say that HDZ gives HRT support, I would recommend that a colleague who replicated it read the Law on HRT and take a look at the support during his time in government, so he will see that it is the same amount. This Law on HRT has brought this House of Highs, and it is clear exactly what this support is for and what it is given for. Finally, a few years later, you can see why this support is given.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166557	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166558	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative and to the reminder, although it may not have been so highlighted, but it is mentioned in the report itself, and I will repeat this. So this was the 16th report in a row, and the second in the context of this particular data collection method, so that it was made exclusively as I stated there on the basis of the information on the state aid granted and the aid of small value provided by the support providers through the Register of State aid and the support of small value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166559	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166560	Dear Vice President, Mr Zrinasic and Mr Dragic. As we can see in 2018, over 14 billion and 800 million kunas were granted support. In this, you gave a detailed report on how much it was for a shipbuilding that is over 2.5 billion, so it proves how much the guarantees and guarantees that the state had to respect during this period, and perhaps they are irresponsible in some previous periods, how much this increases significantly then the share of the aid in total State support.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166561	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166562	Thank you very much for what is ultimately recognized in the report itself and for what we mentioned. So indeed some of the support that has not been planned, which was ultimately a particular challenge for the budget 2.5 billion last year, this year also paid off that some 4.6 billion kunas have been paid so far by the guarantees issued, indeed the consequences of whether or not they could have been better achieved even at the time when the support was given, unfortunately today is reflected on the one who implements the state budget. But that's what I would say is some kind of process that I believe will in some near future lead to the donor of state support looking at better goals, as a recently respected representative mentioned and then requiring execution in the direction in which they were issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166563	Thank you for your response. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166564	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. I will try to highlight in a really short discussion what I think is important, and it is related to this support report allocated in 2018 because, namely, the report, and the secretary of state has made quite precise numbers or percentages, the type of support given in 2018, and I will try to point out what seems interesting to me in that report and what those figures can tell us. The first thing I want to point out, and it's about the report itself, and that's also the secretary of state, the figures are clear there, they're structured by certain areas and individual species, but what's left of us as people who are in politics, and especially those who care about the economic part of the policy, so the Ministry of Finance, first of all, and then the other ministries are mentioned here, interpreting these numbers, what are they telling us? And what some colleagues have warned there, even fellow Shucker said one thing that is even more important that some don't even give a report on allocated support to the ministry to have complete data, and then how do we know that feedback, how do we know how much support they have achieved positive effects? Because in the report itself, we can see on page 12 in the graph quite clearly it was shown in 2018 compared to the last here until 2003, so the last 15 years the share of support in GDP has been the largest so far, it has never been bigger, almost 4%. It is true that the Secretary of State has pointed out on several occasions that this applies primarily because in 2018, government guarantees from the sectoral part of the shipbuilding support were actually paid, so state guarantees were issued totalling €580 million, and the activated protests of state guarantees for shipbuilding amounted to €2 billion 530 million. And if we look at it in the structure of the aid itself in relation to those aids that went to industry and those that went to agriculture, if we reject those protested guarantees, so what we paid for shipbuilding we see that actually the amount allocated to agriculture is equal to the amount divided by industry. So somewhere around six billion kunas. Furthermore, we can see from the graph on the page, otherwise I welcome these graphs in the report they show us quite clearly, picture 4 on page 14. share of support for industry and services in total support and share of agriculture and fisheries in total support. Well then, at some age, we see it extremely diverting, and some years these support converts. So in 2015, they were exactly the same. And now, in 2018, there was this separation again, this is about the aids that were in the shipbuilding. The most important thing at this point seems to me to be highlighted, when we talk about horizontal or horizontal support in a narrow sense of 2.59 million kuna, what is an important state secretary, which for the Republic of Croatia is not good, if you go down, we are, here and now, opening up and a series of support in the Republic of Croatia, a series of mechanisms on which help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs especially in the area of innovation, especially in the area of some new technologies and then the amount given for research and development of innovation of only 377 million kuna or 18.3% of these narrow, savvy support is indeed really this small amount, and in my opinion it is crucial to encourage, in fact, the development of the economy, new innovations, new technologies and it should be far, far, far greater. If, I don't know if you've had a chance to see and participate in these competitions where these support is granted. When we talk about innovators it is in principle a support that allows the innovator to reach the patent, actually patents some of his invention and then at that moment stops his support on the market he can no longer do anything. A lot of good ideas, a lot of hard-working people, intelligent people in this country have been stopped just because support at that level is very, very low. I remember the case of workers of the Croatian electricity industry who actually gave their innovation to the company, the public business and, in fact, it was of great importance. So it's about the man enthusiast who left his invention, but I guess the man was working in the system, too, so he got paid, and imagine someone who's not in the system, who doesn't have a salary, who has an idea, but he gets a small, small portion of the amount. What should be particularly highlighted in this report to make it more clear to us, when we talk about all the support, is part of the subsidy or direct interest subsidy we see that this share is 62.4%, therefore, with a large share of the support, interest is subsidized and now, some colleagues warn, I do not view it too negatively, but it leaves the impression that the aids are actually subsidized by banks. Because we support subsidies to make people lower interest, and nothing, nothing or very little the government of the Republic of Croatia does or uses mechanisms to force banks to lower interest rates. Of course, now, the economists will raise their heads and say don't do it like that, there's this, at the end of the credit rating, there's all that's causing high interest, but there are really state mechanisms that banks, I'm going to say freely and attract why not and so express, so that these interest rates are significantly lower. Because if we look at these same banks in other countries, they give us much lower interest. And indeed, I promised I wouldn't speak for a long time because it's not necessary now to repeat all these figures, but what's definitely clear is that we don't have feedback, we don't have that, we now have information as to how much this is, how much support they're making in total GDP, but we don't have the information how much support they're affecting the increase in gross social product. Former Agriculture Minister Tolusic said in his own time, never again encourages agriculture and never less production. Something systemically is not good for us and we should take care of it and state secretaries you as the Ministry of Finance must set yourself up, let's say stricter, let's look for to see where the support is going and what they are causing, is it really aimed towards increasing competitiveness, in the direction of helping entrepreneurs in difficulty and even in this direction of encouraging public service delivery, is someone here is a fellow Panenic, who said in the replica, and that is indeed the case that when subsidising traffic then prices of cards increase. We need to see what we are doing with support, and then what is their return effect on the total economy because I also have pictures, photos in my cell, I can show you how subsidized or encouraged it is for a vineyard where aggacies of this magnitude grow. No one controls incentives, they leave, they spend, they're exhaustive incentives, and eventually they're the most important horizontal ones that enable and the number of jobs, they're left with less resources. And that's some kind of message, you emphasized it by the secretary of state, the more sound support, the more horizontal support, the more the situation will be. And here's just one question for the end, I don't know if that's allowed in this part of EU legislation, given that the 2020 moratorium comes out to the possibility of buying agricultural land from foreign natural and legal persons, it can be provided to farmers in this direction that they buy land, that they can buy land that they are now processing and that will be available for sale? This is one of the questions whether such support is allowed in this regard. As for the report itself, I'm saying the problem is that a small part of the funds went to the so-called so-called. health support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166565	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Žagar, for the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Branko Grcic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166566	Dear Secretary of State with an associate, so the subject of state support, we have already heard some key emphasis, in fact, in that part now that he was speaking, it would probably be repeated, so the structure of the support is changing in that direction which is not quite desirable, so this horizontal support of growth should be, of course, partly because of the fact that in the structure of this year and 2018, there were some 2.6 billion kunas of protested guarantees which are therefore registered as support, which certainly has disrupted that overall structure, but I say, regardless of which, it falls into the eyes, what counterpart Žagar said earlier, so relatively small share of those key I would say, which, of course, are fully consistent with the market game on the EU's common market. So when you look at research and development, small and medium-sized enterprises and employment, when you add it all together, it's only 6% of the total support in the country in 2018, which seems to me to be for this 3 important goals, too little, really too little, and of course you need to see how much of an opportunity to improve these things. However, we must also see an account that even in the economy there is not enough response always for a particular type of support. So you have innovation contests, for development, for research, and therefore you don't have an adequate answer on the other hand, and that's what we need to worry about. It is therefore a question of the absorption capacity of such resources and the strength of our economy to absorb or use those funds to raise the level, the technological level of production of service and to finally increase that added value in the economy. So we're practically at this point, an economy that's very limited to resources, especially working resources and the only source of growth can actually be this technology component and an increase in added value through research, development, new products, innovation, but our capacity is small, bad, and that's the main problem of our economy, how to change it, so it's not enough to offer money, it's important to have the capacity that these funds will use. Here I had the need to make this particularly prominent, it seems to me that this is a key questionnaire for what is called a strategy and some re-induralisation and development in general of industry which has unfortunately been falling for months now and then, of course, falling export goods. For the first time practically after 6 years, which is a serious warning, on the other hand, consumption is increasing and imports are being pumped, import dependence rates are on all segments and even in the EU segment of use, investment from EU funds, to the most extent they are going to import, whether it is about paying for services, importing materials that are being implanted into certain buildings, products of steel and similar things, see the Pelješki bridge, and probably it is 70% dependent on labour and labour that is being integrated there to imports of steel and those structures from China or from where. So there's our problem, and we have to try to change it somehow. But I'm moving on. So this one large segment of state support refers to the transport sector and there is, of course, our biggest pain in the work, and also in the work of public enterprises, which are railways, Croatian railways that simply can't get on healthy feet, and there's no huge money left there, the government is obviously looking for some new ways to help the railways, it's certainly by me and the announced measure to return the works of excise duty to railways and based on fuel and based on electricity and even on ZET, trams, tram transport, etc. Now that's not very clear to me, but this first part is quite clear to me that it's some kind of cover-up... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yeah, well, that's some covert support, but they're simply necessary to keep the railway sector in such a function at all. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Therefore, we will discuss this, of course, when the proposal for tax measures comes on the agenda here in the Croatian Parliament. And what I can't get around, just for one correct conversation and stories about this topic, which are these protested guarantees in shipbuilding. There are too many political bickerings here, too much political squabble, so let's say in the rhetoric of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric and others who talk about it, until now it has been used dominantly, so we have paid guarantees, protested guarantees in shipbuilding that occurred during the previous governments, and that's true. These guarantees came at the time of previous governments including the SDP, and now on Wednesday, the prime minister is probably approaching parliamentary elections which is a legitimate political battle, is it very clear that thanks to the SDP government we had to pay 4 billion kuna or slightly more guarantees, which is not true, it is not true. But here I say I attribute it to that one pre-election atmosphere. And that is why I need to say once again as a participant in this government that things have actually been standing these last few years, so five, six years since the first guarantees were issued on this basis, and we have negotiated throughout 2013 and 2014 with the European Commission that we can at all issue shipbuilding guarantees according to a particular model and in 2014 somewhere at the end of 2014, we managed to negotiate that the state can issue private shipbuilding sites of up to 80% of the value, up to 80% of the shipbuilding value. And that's when the state actually went into action and supported the shipyards not only the Oil Group but also some other shipyards, but this is primarily about the Oily Group that's come into this serious crisis in the last two years. So I'm going to tell you what it says in the guarantee reports available on the Ministry of Finance's pages, and I've really tried to get that data out there and analyze it, not just by the numbers, but also by the new constructions that stand to say so behind these guarantees issued. Mostly in 2015, the SDP government issued a significant amount of 535m euros in guarantees, which is indeed a respectable amount. Why? As several previous years have accumulated claims for guarantees which could not be settled because they were negotiated with the European Commission, so in 2015 so many guarantees were issued. 17 total shipbuilding, number 500, 513, 514, 515, 520, 522 until the shipbuilding of third May 732, 733, 13172 etc. 17 new constructions. Now see, the SDP issue has been raised, but in 2016 when SDP and HNS are no longer in the government, I stress the HNS because the HNS sector was leading, a colleague Vrdoljak was a minister at the time and during the restructuring of shipbuilding and during the issue of these guarantees, means in 2016 a total of 179.8m euros. These previous guarantees we issued were criminal, so these were indeed guarantees that ships would be delivered. So the state stood behind the shipyard that this new construction would be delivered and guaranteed with a certain amount of money, and then in 2016 it was mainly financial credit guarantees for the construction itself. Thus, the 180 million were intended for a new construction loan of 522, 526, 527, 528, 529, 530, 531, 532. Why am I stressing that now? So to make it clear that, of course, the question arises, would the HDZ Government have issued in 2016 at all, and later in 2017, guarantees that she had at all suspected that there was something wrong with that oil at that time or that there were very serious problems in balance sheets and business, would she issue those guarantees that she knew? No, it wouldn't, a very simple answer. In 2017 less than 74m euros of guarantees for new constructions were issued 531 and 532 again, and for the refinancing and settlement of long-term commitments by the Group's Uljannik. So the new guarantees in 2017 and the beginning of 2018 the report on the operation of the shipyard in 2017 turned the red light on alert because they then identified the first major losses that no audit had previously identified in previous years because that was the case and that someone had turned on the red light and these guarantees would not have been issued at the time of HDZ, it is quite clear. So let's be correct about this politically and in every other way because the figures are figures. Guarantees are guarantees, there are tables, there are dates, approvals and issues. You know the approval decision can always be annulled, but once you issue a guarantee, there's no back, no back, you've almost made a commitment. And we have to distinguish that, two are dates, two are time points, and this is your situation. And now, more or less, we know in 2018 when the crisis broke out, the HDZ government issued another 96m euros in guarantees, but it was already a recovery. To this day, we do not know where this renaissance credit has been spent because the ships that were started and were largely built have not been completed. And now you have the following situation, so of these 20 ships as far as they are covered by these guarantees, 8 have been delivered and these are more or less ships that were built in our mandate, but they were delivered in 2016, 2017. 6 were partially built and these are those who, two years later today, squatted there at the Uljannik Shipyard and Shipyard on May 3rd, unfortunately. And there's my grudge, so now it's reverse to the HDZ government, why didn't she at least do that part more vigorously because if that was done, the bail cost wouldn't be 4 billion and 200 million, but at least it would have been halved because it's just a ship called Jan de Zero, so it's... It's famous over a billion kunas, so a billion 100, a billion and 200 million kunas worth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could now increase pensions by 3% to 200 million to our pensioners, that's roughly that amount, right now 3% and another billion kuna on at least these five other ships that aren't completed and which, fortunately, could possibly be completed, could increase pensions by 3%, and then the pensioners could get 6% more pensions that are small and none anyway. So, we have to be perfectly correct here and I'm sorry that it happened, I'm not going to say now that the new losses are going to happen on that ship itself, Jan de Zero, you've read the other day in the paper, so the boat that costs a billion and 200 million, is now going to auction for 750 million kuna, and it's very likely because of its specificity that this price is going to be much less than 750 million kuna, so the state is going to lose again and there in the blackest scenario in the article is mentioned that it's possible and that somewhere it's going to be fixed for zero kuna. So let's leave the political pre-election stories when it comes to such serious things then the numbers are the key thing, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166567	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So today we are talking about one very important subject in my opinion, but unfortunately when we talk, when we submit a report on support in the Croatian Parliament, then unfortunately there are very few MPs and very little debates because when you look at this report a little bit better, then you will see that these support is tangling our daily life practically to the smallest detail, from public transport support to support for municipal businesses to strategic support to say, industry, a little entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. What we can say is that the support is that, without support and in fact, they serve, which is why, when Croatia enters and negotiates to join the EU, this area has been particularly accepted because, in principle, through support, no matter how clear the EU directives are and how much more effective they have accepted it, each member seeks to find its own model to help its economy with certain support to be more competitive on the market and thus more efficient. And that's why I'm saying, which is why I'm particularly surprised by the lack of interest in this debate, but what some colleagues on the left have mentioned, and we're going to mention it on the right is that unfortunately most of these support is quite inaccessible to our entrepreneurs. You have a story of the fastest finger, you have an offer by 24:00, and I don't know where, in principle, entrepreneurs spend a lot of money to make projects, and then eventually they end up without that money. Why am I saying that? So because we don't have to look at this report as a report just to record the dry figures that have given so much money but we need to see what the effect of it all is because when you look at it regardless of the subject of this report, but because of the interest it's always shown in the report, it's a support in agriculture of nearly 6 billion and 100 million kuna, but when we go to the market, when we go to the market, then we simply ask ourselves all the questions not as a politician, no, as citizens and where are these agricultural products? So that's the fact we have to worry about. The next thing I know, I'm going to continue to debate my fellow Greeks because obviously there's a lot of us here telling our truth, but there's a pay phone that has what anybody's saying and what they've said. So Croatia is one of the most difficult chapters for the negotiations and the point was to restructure Croatian shipbuilding and you remember well that, I have no intention of calling anyone out but simply for the sake of facts, the HDZ Government has made this programme, the European Commission has accepted it, certain operational matters have been implemented by the SDP government and we have completed the restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding. In the programme of this restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding, it is said that the next 4 years in the state budget at the positions of the Ministry of Economy in order to help the cost of restructuring the team and those shipyards need to be provided with so much money, it was at an annual level of around a billion and 100, billion and 200 million kuna and therefore it was something with the consent of the European Commission, however, what is crucial and this can be seen from this is that the state no longer had to give guarantees to the shipyards. It's a key thing, it's that restructuring programme that the Croatian government adopted, the European Commission adopted and Croatia joined the EU. And when you look at it, then you will see that in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, there were no such guarantees and there were both Governments. Another thing as a cost and aid in restructuring, the Croatian state took over 10 billion kuna guarantees from all Croatian shipyards, at least in the story was part of Uljanik and it was inserted into the deficit of the state budget in 2011 and 2012, which is why they jumped in one way and therefore some former prime ministers are today talking about what a deficit was in 2010 and it is known that the exact restructuring programme of the shipbuilding was installed on 2010. Why am I saying all this? Because it is not clear to me today, and not once after this speaker, I was speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club when we discussed the budget because you have a guarantee report in the budget, you have reports on further protested guarantees, why the Croatian government has decided to ask the EU Commission for permission to grant guarantees to Croatian shipbuilding. Therefore, this is a fact and the explosion of these guarantees took place in 2014/2015. More than 4 billion kunas and these are also facts, we can be here as politically fighting as much as we want, however, the ultimate result is that the government paid in 2018 on the basis of this report. 2.5 billion state guarantees and about a billion and 600 paid in the 2nd month. In 2019, we'll have that in the report this year, so these are facts. And the other thing, what you should say here, this is the first time that state guarantees have been protested practically at 100%. First time. Otherwise, these guarantees are being protested at some percentage amount, why? Because the shipyards simply built ships with a certain minus, they had losses around the ship and they couldn't cover those guarantees, and it was protested so that again, we wouldn't be having a political fight here, you had a shipbuilding recovery at the time of the late Ivica Racan government in 2002 when counterpart Linic was vice president, Mato Crikvenica Minister of Finance, and I don't think that Fižulic was, not Ljubo Jurcic was the minister of economy with over 10 billion kuna, so the HDZ government did the same thing as part of the restructuring program over 10 billion kuna and now after all that, what happened together happened. And now what bothers me, as a man first of all, which is one and the same who gave guarantees, when there's a fuss they start yelling that the state needs to take care of, should be given, they're the first now in the ranks to fight for the pay to increase everyone's wages, that we should increase pensions, so let's look at it like this, we use the same rhetoric, so let's say how much wages and pensions could be increased by 4 billion and 100 million protested guarantees? How much could these wages have increased if it hadn't been protested to focus on something else? Or are they... One part for that part for something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we at the HDZ Club just have to say it in a way, but I'm saying, all of what I'm saying can be backed up by a phonogram of assembly debates. I'm not saying any of this based on what we haven't talked about here, and that's why this point in the state support report is an extraordinary opportunity for all of us because when you look at it in that... I think you have 10 companies engaged in public transport in local self-government units where they received support for the purchase of new means of transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, no one can say it doesn't tang him. Or support in energy, why I said we had to insist, even if we had to put together a parliamentary conclusion to help the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance is just an executor here, they don't provide support, they don't make a decision on support, they're just based on the law, why? Because it's just been totally messy in the country and then we've been tasked with taking the concession register and making the support register one-stop shop so that everyone who's interested can see where the support is. Those who provide support simply by the basis of the laws, regulations and support must enter into the register by a specific date. And another thing. It is defined by the Fiscal Responsibility Act that when a person adopts a law, a legal proposal based on which something is expected to change, that they will receive the right to certain support, so the logical thing is to give some support to someone to make an analysis of what is the effect of these support. Because otherwise, we're going to be politically moving here, hitting on each other, depending on who was in power at the moment, who was in opposition. And is that all of us as people's interests? Let's drop the politics now? I don't think so. Because look, 14 billion kunas of cash have gone for various support in the Republic of Croatia, we have good macroeconomic indicators, but the question is whether certain support has achieved results. We've heard here from some colleagues that horizontal support has dropped. Now you need to see why it happened. If those who provide these support don't make that analysis and that analysis doesn't deliver to the ministry that the ministry installs in this report, then we as parliamentarians won't know. So here's how I look at the report. First of all, as a document that will help all of us, which will help us when we discuss some laws to be more correct and honest and say, "Wait a minute, stop." Why did I tell you about the shipbuilding? Last year and 2nd month. This year 4 billion and 100. So look at the confusion and panic over the teacher's salary. About the doctor's salary, about the salaries of civil servants, so it's not even half of the protested guarantees. Yesterday we had a discussion about the technical amendment of the Pension Insurance Act, everything and everything we could hear. 5% increase in pensions is 2 billion kuna. And there's something else I want to say here, colleagues and colleagues. 500 million kunas from 3. Mayon to the Oilman. Why I said at the beginning that in the restructuring programme of Croatian shipbuilding it was said that in the next 4 years the Croatian state in the shipbuilding budget must provide so much and so much money to help with the restructuring. Why? Because that 500 million is for 3. May just from those funds. Based on the Budget Law, whoever received the funds had until 31.12 to submit a report to the resolution ministry in which he spent the 500 million. That 500 million people weren't allowed to borrow from anyone. Why? Because these are the funds they are intended to restructure. We are today based on some economic assessment we came to this 3. May can exist, but where the 500 million Croatian taxpayers, based on the government and parliament of the Republic of Croatia, rerouted that 3. May and we don't know that today. Are we ready here to talk about it that way? Unfortunately, we haven't, and that's the key problem. This is a key problem because even to finish this shipbuilding, so we have 4 large consumers of state aid. One, I've already mentioned two, we'll talk about agriculture elsewhere, the other is energy subsidies and environmental protection. And it's very interesting when you compare HROTE's work reports, is HROTE, if I'm not mistaken and the report that's in here, that's where the numbers don't match. That's why I said that support providers are obliged to enter data inside and fourth thing, and that would be good to watch when you bring a state budget and directly protested guarantees, these are Croatian railways. Not that 20 limes were taken from Croatian highways and given to HZ, but in the support report here you have funds from the budget that are given to HZs that have no characteristics, support structure and as such are not recorded here. So, like the guarantees that at the time of issue are not deficits of the state budget, but exactly when you... The state budget, Uljanika, will be charged, so the guarantees issued to HZ will unfortunately be in the same period, unfortunately in the same period, the explosion was in 2014/2015, 2013. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He'll come at some point at the checkout and the finance minister simply, which is said behind the ambush pounding on his back and say that, either you'll have a bad result fiscally or you won't be able to carry out certain obligations. So it's all hidden in this report, colleagues and colleagues. It's just, looking at this report without an analysis of certain budget positions, we're simply mutilating. But what I'm looking at from your make-up when I'm talking to you is certain that we, as parliamentary representatives and as citizens, would like to see in principle what is the effect of these support and therefore full support to the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the HDZ Club for this report. We, as parliamentary representatives, should be supported by the supporter, and they are budgetary users, ask that they adopt the report in due time and that, in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, they are doing an analysis of these support and then this report is likely for us as parliamentary representatives, as representatives of the people here, will be more content, more quality and better. And we will likely discuss it without any political objections, rather than debate it purely from the position of profession and daily knowledge of what could be improved and what could be better. So the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166569	I thank my colleague Shuker. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166570	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course, this support, looking at the data, has already been analysed in the good part, what we are always interested in, and that is, when these applications are very high, we see that these are assets that are significant and make up a large part of exactly the budgetary resources that are allocated each year for that purpose. But then if we were to start, maybe just from the things that people most kind of perceive, it was touched on direct payments, a colleague talked about this topic and then we wonder, okay, what do we strategically expect in the Republic of Croatia from a direct payment system in agriculture and in fact the harmonisation of that system at EU level? Before we had the support we provided from the state budget, they are now now, in time, substitute and come from the common agricultural policy. Of course, we show it in the context of state support, although its source is a practical decision at EU level that all agricultural producers that satisfy the conditions, it is almost most of them have the right to direct payments and then, looking at the common market, we can practically say that this effect is not even existing because if every agricultural producer gets even questions, we can talk about these differences, which is mentioned that we haven't yet applied the full envelope, but the conditions for all to get the same, then we wonder if our agricultural producer in the same position in that marketing game that is ahead of it can mate. I'll say it out loud, it can't. It cannot be because other member states have left a position that has been much better. More significant numbers of years get full amounts of envelopes and more than they get from us, and now we should say yes, but we support farmers and thus support their competitiveness. No, we only actually bring them in if their head is somewhere beneath the surface of the water, a little bit, so they see, they might inhale, but they can't do exactly that. This may be a little metaphorical, but it's really just like that. So we have not been able to get to the point that our agricultural producers have neither a full envelope nor through other forms of support we have actively tried to resolve the situation in the agricultural sector, and right now we can only say that direct payments of support in agriculture are a good part of the support, but reality is what is said and what is for Minister Tolusic and his statement that we are actually going back. That would be about agriculture. If we touch electricity, we see that as a society, politics and all those involved are of one noble intention, and this is the subsidisation of the production of renewable energy sources made one of the biggest affairs in the Republic of Croatia, and very often here we have called the former Minister of Vrdoljak and the decisions made at the time where individuals who entered that system are currently making significant revenues based on state aid, and all of them have been overrun by our citizens and entrepreneurs of consumers who are paying just for renewable energy sources, and then the ministry has made it a little more beautiful to not be a reality so difficult for citizens to bring down the VAT rate, and then here it is said that we have balanced the compensation we have to pay, something they have brought down VAT, but our entrepreneurs remain burdened with this whole fee because they are neutral in their traffic. And that's the fact that we've had in the past tense, and we need to learn from it because it's been paid today. I already mentioned here and the question of public transport that comes also from one intention, which is that demographically, in a way, support itself. The cost paid for a time by local self-government and county depends on which decision it was, the state has taken over and since then we have one boom price that has happened. The numerous discounts that existed in public transport, suddenly being abolished, no more need for the team, the state pays 100% or 75%, cities, municipalities, counties take over the second part, and we all pay the percentage, but we forget what the total amount is. It's like coming to a store where you've been promised 50% and you're going to make a purchase there without asking what's the starting price or what's the ultimate price after the discount, because in a good part of the case, it's going to happen that you might have paid more than there's a regular price anywhere without a single discount. And we've entered a paradigm of events wherever we touch with state aid we're causing a negative effect. And then today I was also talking about amendments to the impact assessment. What was the impact assessment? Who made that impact assessment? Compensation of the impact assessment, who was that minister or government who had the courage to change the decision if they saw that the effects they had made on the market did not match the plan. No one says the mistake was made at the time when it was considered, but simply, the course of events shows that it was not a sufficiently elaborated policy that was being provided and then we come to a newer time. These are the support provided for real estate, for the purchase of first real estate and the whole debate developed during 2018/2019, which is the impact of state support on the rise in real estate prices. I believe that HNS and HDZ colleagues will say, absolutely has nothing to do with it because it's a market, it's just grown demandy, it's just been a real estate thing, and it just happened during 2018 and 2019, an incredible coincidence and we can take it off our shoulders and say, here, we don't know why it happened, but we were prophets, so we gave state support, so if it wasn't for that state support, imagine how it would have just been a situation. It is a picture of someone speaking from the ruling ones, and when you ask the real estate market players, they will say that the key problem that these support is given in a short time when demand is booming and everything available on the market is bought to use the support offered because then you pay everything, just give, give, let me, let me use, those who can of course because they can't all take advantage of and after that, when the price is raised, it is practically possible for you in economic conditions sometimes to raise the price to base unfounded arguments, the simple market reacts. Oil prices increase when the American ship sails into the Persian Gulf, and not when this happens, so we have a measure, that it is a permanent character, then we could stand behind that finding that there is no effect on the real estate market because everyone has a right all the time, it's a simple relief, this way we have a boom of price increases and then that fall that is supposed to happen, it's very slow and it takes time. So because we have cycles that the government and the minister do it at a certain time every year and then everyone knows it, we're going to give support next year. So why would we lower real estate prices when and next year those who will want to do so in that month or any day seek state support and use it, but then we bring a large number of citizens into a situation where they can't use the subsidy offered, are not unconditional that they have a difficult life. Here, that's the reality of this kind of support. I would touch on another support that somehow doesn't get into these reports is not being considered, and basically the most significant provider of such support is the state. It refers to the pre-fashion settlement procedures where, if you notice, the entrepreneur has already slowly accepted one trend, which is that the possibility of pre-fashion settlement is primarily an option to write down the good part of the request by the Republic of Croatia. And then we have a trend where there's traffic shifts from one company to the other owned by the same people where there's a debt to the state or that accumulates through a certain time and at one point the entrepreneur says, I'm now ready, I'm blocked, I'm ready for a pre-determination settlement. They show up at the finance minister, of course, on the table and how the minister decides, how much write-off is going to be, about all the other participants, but let's be honest, everyone's waiting, but let's be honest, so everyone's waiting for the Minister's moment to see what that write-off is going to be, is it 30%, 40%, 60%, then about everybody's going to write off, something's being converted, something's being done, but we see that there's one handsome instrument and for taking over the property of companies that are being brought into that position, so all the state pays. This is all that was right to charge, we bring into an unequal position those who regularly operate on the market in relation to those who manipulate and this is a phenomenon that happens among many entrepreneurs and even those who come to this High House to sit and they used it and use the resources of the state without a problem to simply say I will no longer pay it, and through a pre-fashion settlement I will get the write-off of the good work, the reprogramme and I am satisfied. Long live the Republic of Croatia in which support when given eventually has everything except those effects that citizens want, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166571	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166572	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When you look at the numbers of state aid reports, it's a huge amount, 14.8 billion. There is, of course, the structure itself, the industry and services sector, 8.6, agriculture and fisheries 6.1, when this is summed up, we get the total amount. We can now analyse how much this support is needed, probably that, I don't want to question it, however, how much these are based on strategic documents, how much interest of the Republic in these supports is represented because I'm not going to put an accent on sustainability, which I think we should take care of, but first of all, I think that industry is important to us. However, what may have a particular grudge, that certain industries, especially the processing sector, I think is either sub-represented or insufficiently represented in support. When looking at the processing sector, the lowest wage average is mainly exporters, so they depend exclusively on the external market, the other thing, I think a more qualitative step should be made in this work as far as the economic sector is concerned to find models and ways to help the processing sector as much as possible. Some parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially northern Croatia, where the processors of the sector are the most represented and when compared with other support for other sectors that come in, perhaps not directly or indirectly, then I believe that the processing industry is neglected in this part, that I am not speaking of the possibility of obtaining raw materials and some other factors that affect and they are gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, exclusively on the market, exclusively on the market and depend on themselves. Agriculture and fisheries ok, agriculture in itself, I believe that with this support it receives, and should receive economically far better quality results, better results and financial results and that, in some ways, all of these support should be evaluated which for one kuna of support is obtained and what is the interest of the state. What we certainly do is we at the HNS club and we are not satisfied with the amount of support we receive for research, development and innovation. We are n threshold IV. The industrial revolution, a reform of education has been launched, precisely with the goal that since we are a small country with a small population, we do not have too many opportunities and what industry was, is no longer at that level, and the very effect of production itself, and I think it is the only opportunity in knowledge. And I therefore also consider it an appeal to the resolution ministry to find models, ways to help more in this particular work, the research, development and innovation sector. Of course, it goes through the economy in the larger part, there are also in the education portfolio, a lot of investment in education, in the centres of competence, in higher education, but I think that it should work right through a certain kind of support for one synergy effect and education, in higher education and in the economy itself, because it is colleagues and colleagues, our future. We won't always have opportunities and opportunities, let's just say, to raise GDP on tourism alone. Only on tourism to design or to spend, that's certainly not what leads to the better. Now, I will look briefly at one part of which I am honest, I am aware that jobs of general interest such as transport, such as subsidies for some sea transport sectors, islands must be connected, etc., we must also enable citizens of the city of Zagreb to drive and all of us who are experiencing circumstances or we are in Zagreb, live or come a week or a day, but there are some things that we are a little questionable, as much as this support can achieve its purpose at all. In particular, Zet got somewhere in Zagreb, I think that over 57% of the total revenues to ZET are subsidies, which I find a little odd. And without these subsidies at the annual level, the amount can vary very little, the question arises whether it can exist without it at all? And I'm going to ask the opposite question, I'm coming from northern Croatia, I'm going to take distance from specifically Ivanca to Varazdin is 22 km away, which is somewhere between the eastern part of the city of Zagreb and the western part of Zagreb, so let's take some suburban parts... who are 40 km away from the center of Varazdin, colleagues and colleagues, there are no subsidies for transportation, not to mention from Ludbreg, there you have two bus lines daily and private carriers are simply because local self-government has no capacity to allow its citizens a more adequate and quality, denser transport or to have a quality adequate transport connection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask further, this same ZET had over the last year, I think it had a loss of 50 million kuna and ideas at the midterm op, a few million kunas positive. And now I wouldn't have been so moved by any special attention but by the construction of a wire. Okay, I understand the needs of the citizens of the city of Zagreb and all those who come, who want to ride a cable car, but precisely somewhere that amount that was needed to achieve a positive result in the city of Zagreb for some 14 million kunas, be careful, from the losers of 50 million kuna for half a year cap, you are well 60 and some million kuna is a positive result, indeed, I think the management of ZET is commendable, but somewhere in that amount the subsidy has increased compared to the previous year for Zet to be creditworthy, so he can be in charge. I'm asking you how far now? I understand the general interest, I understand the general interest, the citizens of Zagreb must drive. You get some tickets, I think somewhere around 16 million kunas, which is completely negligible compared to the total business, so now you're asking the question of whose Zet is it? Because every year he has to get subsidies so he can breathe at all, so he can be alive, so he can function. I think, first of all, you should see at the city level what the problem is, but also the state, because look out, it's huge money, it's huge money. Those citizens who do not have the possibility of urban transport, who have to pay for their money expensive tickets to transport whether the railways, whether by bus, do they by personal vehicle, so do they not have the right to some kind of subsidy if we go in that way to watch? Why only in big cities? It is not a problem at local level or at the level of several units of local self-government to organise through a municipal company, which gives the Law on the municipal economy the possibility of urban transport, inter-city. Yeah, are we gonna get a grant to organize that? I'm asking a question. a population density, well, not like in Zagreb, of course, is around 140, 150 inhabitants per km square. Furthermore, in the end, subsidies are necessary, subsidies are good, but I fear that some subsidies will not justify their purpose because I think that the purpose and purpose of the subsidy is not to keep someone alive, to hold him to a picturesque expression, nose above water, half head, nose above water, but to raise him up and become economically sustainable. If there are still subsidies in certain sectors in such a way, then I'm afraid it's a waste of money in a well. As far as subsidies are concerned, there is one very interesting thing, when you look at how much this is in terms of the amount of support per employee, the amount of support per capita, per capita turns out to be 3613 kn, huge, huge. When you look at it as 14.8 billion at the state level, and when you compare what it means, when you look at the employees, it's huge money, and I'm afraid the effects resulting from these aids, I'd like to be denied but I don't think they're producing a factor or ratio of 1:1. I think the ratio is even negative, for one kuna of support, you don't get one kuna of equivalent to anything that is. That's the problem. That it's at least 1:1.1, that's already positive. Therefore the recommendation, more should be invested in those who produce, more support should be given for research, development and innovation because there is a multiplier several times larger than throwing into consumption and keeping someone alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166573	Thank you very much. We will now move to an individual debate and will be the first to be respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166574	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the representatives of the ministry, the secretary of state and his colleague. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who listen to us, what is the meaning of the support and subsidies we are discussing today because here... a report in front of us on the aid in 2018. In each market economy, there are those entities, sectors, segments that cannot withstand a competition which, for various reasons, are in an unequal position either because of their guilt, because of the uncertainty of certain regulatory measures or wrong regulatory measures, or because of unfair competition or for some entirely other reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The point is therefore to preserve this economic operator, this sector, a particular industry, a certain branch so that it can continue to live, develop and thus increase the wealth of the entire economy, or the whole state. Is that achieved in Croatia? Is that what it is? Here they are several times, on several occasions said that a total of 14 billion and 800 million kunas of state aid were paid in 2018. And that this is a significant increase compared to 2017, almost 20%. If we are now going to look at sectoral, analyze what is exactly in these sectors, whether that impact of almost 20% of the aid increase has also produced an adequate increase in total income activity, profits in these sectors that have been encouraged and which we have stimulated. As we can see, it's not. The biggest support was paid means when we speak at the level of the economy towards industry, according to agriculture, within the industry, it was the first place in shipbuilding last year. However, we see that key problems are not solved there. We from the Party Change Croatia asked that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister publish their findings, their experts who were in Uljanik at the end of 2017, and in early 2018 an analysis was made and this finding was never seen by the light of the day, we citizens do not know what was inside, how they were ingesting subsidies and support paid from the state budget on behalf of the Oil Group. Several times I asked the prime minister to publish because he boasts that he is a transparent European man, that he wants to just work like that, so I ask him again to publish this hidden report that they found in the group of Oilers and we don't know why they're hiding it from us? Let's move on, we're just talking about arguments. You see, I don't know if anyone here was talking today about that out of the 14.8 billion support being paid, even 1 billion and 100 million going to HRT, you see. Dear citizens, have you noticed any significant improvement in HRT's work? Have you noticed a significant improvement in turning in terms of transparent business, democratisation, have you seen us opposition MPs, how many times have you, among other things, not to highlight me and my colleagues here who have come to the Parliament's last parliamentary elections, how many times have they been on HRT? This has become a party TV of HDZ, this is practically so it's a terrible censorship, blockade, and there's a list of people who aren't wanted for HRT. We will review that when we come to your citizens' will in the next government, it will be one of the first tasks that we will do because HRT is not democratic, it is not transparent, it is strictly done by party orders and we need to clear that up. She's not a public service, she's a party service and she gets a billion and 100 million kuna support and you know what else is, and we still pay 80 kuna per TV per month, or we have to pay. See, that's the way it is. Let's do something else that wasn't mentioned here today, we from the Party Change Croatia want to tell you the truth, dear citizens, so that in the next elections you can be clear that you can choose and make decisions more easily. Do you know how much support is paid in the transport segment? It's ground transport, air and maritime. Do you know how much they pay those concessionaires they took, means they got a concession to build a certain section of the highway, so they've agreed with the then political leadership to pay them what they're going to pay if there's not so much and so much traffic to deprive them. Let the report be submitted on how much it pays to Zagreb Airport annually to know how much it is paid, how much it has been paid because it has not been achieved so much and so much traffic, let each share say how much it is paid. So it's so-called. a public-private partnership through such concessions, it has been contaminated and thus is a fertile ground for corruption and clientelism. That's where our money goes, our support from the state budget, and that's where the money's lost like it's running through sand water. Let's talk about agriculture. About agriculture, you see, he says there's a lot to give, like, six billion kuna. Well, never Croatia has produced less food than it is now. So it's never been encouraged again, subsidized and never produced less. The production of milk was more than halved. The deficit in the foreign trade ratio with foreign food is terrible, we're about 1 billion euros in deficits and we can have so much surplus. And you see, it doesn't make sense that I'm still quoting numbers and jeopardizing you with these data than is there any solutions? Of course there are respected colleagues and colleagues, and especially you citizens, we want to give you back optimism, hope that it can change, that we pay less support in the future and that the segment of the economy is progressing. For free of all our support and credit support, you can see for the purchase of the apartment because the support has become a first-class political instrument for maintaining the government, it's so-called. capillary corruption from incentives, from subsidized loans. So that's where you're primarily looking at whether you're a member of this party that's in power or not, and that's how it works. Go through Slavonia, people write to me, talk to these people. If you're going to get, put the house in energy efficient, then you'll probably have to be a member of the HNS because they're holding it. If you're going to get a boost for agriculture, then you must most likely be HDZ, etc., etc., depends on how he chose the hunting ground for himself, right, and we know exactly which public enterprises are turned into hunting grounds. But to end up as a professor, not just a politician, but a university professor in the area of finance and economy. Well, no support can save this economy if for many years you've been destroying it with high interest, if 92% of banking is held by foreign banks, if the exchange rate is heavily damaged and deeply unrealistic, you can't handle that game with foreign competitors, competitors. So if economic policy is against the economy, against the peasants, against the craftsmen, against the industry, and it is, then don't play with tax reforms to try to get some crumb on the table. A radical change is needed, a new change, a new economic policy that will make this country rich, raise a general standard where people will be able to live peacefully, satisfied with their children who will no longer go abroad, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166575	Thank you. We've got a few dapacas, more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166576	Thank you very much. How does a colleague Lovrinović, you estimate and explain this paradox to support agriculture growth year by year, means 6 billion and 100 million kuna compared to 5 and 200 in 2017 and production is getting smaller and smaller? So this is a question that has been highlighted here by a HDZ colleague to see the effectiveness of the support, what we are getting at all and why these support is thus paid off when the benefits of them obviously do not have Croatian farmers in the way that they should have. So what does 20% more support and production 10 or 15% less than last year mean? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166577	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166578	My colleague Maras, I can't call it anything but a political paradox, so there's an increase in support, an allocation for support in agriculture, production down. So the money goes to the girl through the sand, but exactly who needs it, so it's this political clientelem, and it's known exactly who got it, so they got the support for the cattle they didn't have, the controls showed. They've been given support for crops they don't have, they've healed fields. So we're going to do an analysis, not only of the analysis, but also of the responsibility of all those who shared support, who took money from our citizens' pockets and shared exactly on certain addresses. We have to clear up because this is a sign that it's simple, to use public money, to money citizens to create, to solidify a party base and to stay in power, it's true unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166579	The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166580	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Lovrinović, someone who might be able to discuss this agricultural debate with a Slavonski begarnik "in my village I am a great fairy tale, while I have a good incentive". Namely, the only resource in agriculture that matters, which is most important, is agricultural land. The OPG as a private company can be as much as agricultural land. That's one problem we don't want to deal with. In 2020, he went out to the moratorium to buy land from foreigners, our people entered with large capital, they got that return on capital investment, they invested in the machinery, but the question of how useful this mechanism is. Once in the PICs, here's PIC Bezik, there were 10 technologists, 10 people who cared about what was produced and how it was produced. Today, this country is distributed to the OPGs and to the agricultural economies, and it's a little bit of a profession, and it's more and more based on the incentives that don't produce results.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166581	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166582	Thank you, dear colleague, for asking. The answer is very simple, you see, the strategy was for the OPGs to be in charge, for the villagers to be in debt as much as possible to buy new tractors, to buy as many tractors as possible, to take as many credits as possible, to build as much cost. With high interest, with the currency clause, why? One day to clean them off the market because you see how many they can't today, they're falling apart. How many milkers have failed. Why? To keep the market clean, so that food of suspicious and poor quality can be imported and we lose production. So this isn't about some mixed, uncontrollable process, this is a clear strategy for destroying domestic production to increase imports. And not only that, you spoke of the country, in order to take over farmland as the most valuable resource in Croatia and strategies when they fail to buy cheap land from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166583	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166584	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinovic. You said about subsidising in the housing sector or restoring more residential buildings energy or subsidizing housing loans that you had to be a member of the HNS to get. I would like more than 17,000 people living in more residential buildings to be members of the HNS, they recognized the HNS as you recognized it did it or now a total of 10,000 families who have subsidized and who will get that they too recognized the HNS as you as the first to bring it, but that is not so. All those who have the documentation who reported it got it, no one asked them for the sure which members of the party. So I am glad that you have such perception and I hope that it will also be accepted in the people that 10,000 remain in Croatia now and have a settled housing issue thanks to our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166585	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166586	I haven't been in politics in a long time, but I haven't seen a party so prostituted in a shorter time where it's been everywhere than the CNS to the shame of its founders, the honorable people who founded it. On the other hand, the area where I'm moving, especially the 2nd constituency of St. John's Zeline, Vrbovac, and then there's the story of my colleague Curaj, you know, I didn't make this up. And thirdly, you've found real cover with HDZ because there are few of you, you're a small party but sophisticated and you're a doctor compared to HDZ, you understand these things because you took the best cookies from them, you took HEP, you took the Ministry of Reconstruction, it's monopolies, money like in the story, never enough for you. I will be glad to see that at last such parties and individuals disappear from the Croatian Parliament once, and that will happen in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166587	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166588	Dear Representative Lovrinović. I know how much corruption hurts, how much crime hurts. We are aware of this, unfortunately, and which party is the generator of corruption in Croatia and the president who is currently in prison. But unfortunately, Mr. Lovrinovic bear in mind that the party currently being tried for crime is in power and simply any fight against crime while the party being tried for crime is the party whose former president is in prison for crime is actually convicted of failure or the matter of Sisif's work. Unfortunately, our citizens are the victims of all this, and this is one tragic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166589	The response of the respected representative Lovrinović, related to the Annual State Support Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166590	Please, Mr. Vice President, stop the time to allow me to speak first, see, I can't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166591	I think we all hear you well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166592	They're talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166593	Please, come on, colleagues, shut up, colleague Lovrinović is responding to the esteemed representative Pernar. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now the clock can go. You see here on average there are 20 parliamentary deputies, and what's coming is lifters, you see the raisers are here, now there's going to be a vote. And within an hour when all the lifts are gone, and the MPs remain. What you answer to this colleague of yours Pernar, corruption is number one in Croatia. There's nothing we can do until we deal with corruption and this kind of bad justice, actually wrongly convicted. That's two key things. However, respected citizens, we have a very simple task. In the next election, the simple question is, will you support the people who have led you so far and destroyed us all or will you give new people a chance? It's just a dilemma and nothing else, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166595	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic. Here you go. My colleagues, please be quiet and calm down so that colleague Vučetić can say his. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166596	Thank you, colleague, for your discussion. Although I had another replica, I was more interested in what you were saying about HNS, so I would ask you to repeat that if the HNS had introduced a supposed school for life, but I would like you to repeat these extracurricular activities of HNS again these minutes, where these extracurricular activities take place in which ministries and in which companies to understand what a real incentive is for a rich existence by the type of HNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166597	Dear Representative Lovrinovic responds to the state support report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166598	Thank you. A colleague of Vučetić. Here I welcome the other handlifters who came in the meantime. You ask me to repeat to you where the HNS is cursed, so you can read it on Google only, but I repeat in the most lucrative public companies, it is HEP Croatia's electro-price, which is a completely monopoly firm. Furthermore, it's the Environment Fund at the Ministry of Energy, they're holding key things, so renewable energy sources, that's their specialty. Well, their president, let's say, he's an expert in real estate, energy for everyone. Look who's running JANAF, etc., etc. But my colleague Vučetic, I think together, we all need to gather together to defeat and cleanse the country of this mess in the next election, so that people finally see the hope of life in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166599	Thank you very much. It seems to me that the esteemed representative, Stjepan Curaj, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's let my colleague Curaya say what he has to say about what the injured Rules of Procedure is, I ask you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166600	Thank you, dear Vice President. The Rules of Procedure of Articles 238, 232, the last two speakers did not speak on the subject of the agenda, you were obliged to warn them if necessary and to take away the word. I know that it is much easier and more mediaably more acceptable to build your political platform on this one not mildly said spit on other parties, of course I would like to talk about the topic of the agenda. When I warned you that you were wrong, you never referred to it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166601	Okay, I'm assessing that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, and please, let's not go now with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure here and there and things like that because I'm going to start giving warnings if we keep doing this. Please. No injured Rules of Procedure. You think my colleague Lovrinović's Rules of Procedure was injured? Think hard, you'll get a warning if you abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166602	Mr. Vice President, I've thought this through, the question is, why did you even give your colleagues Curaj your word, and you see that it's not at all, it's not this breach of the Rules of Procedure, you said, and why did you give him your word? And now you won't let me say two sentences. Am I right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166603	You're wrong, and I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166604	Just one sentence to him. If I spit, I spit with arguments, and that's not the kind of spit you usually do here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166605	My colleagues and colleagues, let's move on, let's get this over with, let's try to finish the debate before the free speeches. Please, please be quiet for a moment so that colleague Maras can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Wait a minute, can you please allow the possibility to argue before you call me? [[Invader: Excuse me, your colleague from the party...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166607	Of course, here's my colleague, Bauk, who's the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166608	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166609	Please, colleagues and colleagues, so let's just keep quiet, so don't say that, you've really become like a kindergarten. If you won't, I'll interrupt the session really if you won't let people talk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166610	You will surely agree with me that Article 238(3) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because it says that during the debate, the representative must not interfere with his attacks or otherwise interfere with the speaker. So, with the drowsiness as a colleague speaks, it is unsuspecting and it is you who have warned there is a violation of that article of the Rules of Procedure. So I called to see if it would take some time for colleagues to finish their jam, so that fellow Maras could continue the debate normally. And if he can't, then let's vote and he'll continue later. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166611	Thank you very much. Nothing since it obviously doesn't work that my colleague Maras can end normally or start at all with his debate then we'll go to the vote, so I guess in peace he can do it later, it's incomprehensible for me not to let him speak, but here's even from his own club some didn't give him, but okay. We'll proceed with the vote now. Dear colleagues and colleagues that no longer have been reported for the debate on the 2018 Annual State Support Report, I hereby conclude the debate on the point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-18-0.u166613	Annual State aid report 2018 The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: an annual report on State aid for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 88 in favour, 10 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent parliamentary committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The applicant is the Personal Data Protection Agency. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘The Annual report on the work of the Data Protection Agency for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 shall be adopted.’. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 77 for, 8 abstentions and 22 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
