ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142477	Good morning, I'm very glad to be invited to this session this morning. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has been trying to get into CERN for decades and the realization of this has finally led to an end. In February of this year, an agreement was concluded between the Republic of Croatia and CERN on accession as an associated member in CERN. The Republic of Croatia has huge positive benefits about membership, not only scientific, scientific normal yes, but even in this context the least important, there is much more important for the Croatian economy that Croatian engineers will be able to have equal legal access to those high-tech solutions that are not only used on CERN, but also develop on CERN and our companies will be able to join these processes, be part of these public procurements. So far, this has not been possible, however, we have a lot of cases when Croatian companies participate in CERN already, but only as subcontractors, cannot be the main performers and this, by entering CERN, will finally change. So, with scientific advantages, there are huge economic advantages, short-term, long-term benefits, but there are also advantages for education of children and that in primary school, high school. Namely, CERN has a highly developed children's education program, as well as a teacher. In this manner, our school students who are interested in engineering, physics and science will be able to send themselves neatly to CERN for one day, two days or more. Also, our teachers in primary and secondary schools will be able to send there to education around certain fields, which I think is very, very important because this very modern approach to education is particularly important for the Republic of Croatia and for the curricula reform, so that the effects are quite positive, membership costs about a million Swiss people a year, but I believe that membership will come back neatly, purely from the economic issue, through the participation of our company plus there are still many, much greater benefits for the Croatian economy and science, so I ask that HS support this decision. Ratifies the agreement that the Republic of Croatia had with CERN at the beginning of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142478	We've got four replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague, Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142479	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, science goes at the speed of light forward, the fourth industrial revolution takes hold. Would the Republic of Croatia be able to become a member of the CERN of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research and what does this mean for Croatian science? The Republic of Croatia could never afford a great... A collisionr and a particle injector without having to, and without that, cannot resolve the fundamental issues of physics and the universe. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an advantage of EU membership. Do you think Eurosceptics are aware of our strength and size and how expensive science is and that it's not pig farming? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142480	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142481	So thank you so much for asking. CERN is one fantastic European initiative, in fact it was one of the first great evidence that the EU as such works, it was that 50 of them were done when Europe after World War II was devastated in several ways, including science, all the best scientists were either taken or gone to America or the Soviet Union, Europe was looking for a solution to bring its best scientists back and realized that only a united Europe can be done, a united approach can be done and if it goes into something best and that it works in Europe on that, it is the CERN result that is successful, so CERN is the far-reaching physics laboratory in the world, there neither the Americans in Europe can compete, nor the Chinese or the Japanese of Europe can compete there and it is one of the fantastic successes. Europe, EU [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that we may find out along the way, [[Intruder: Time's up.]] The secrets of the universe. [[Intruder: Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142482	Secretary of State, one minute is for the replica, so please stick to the time. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142483	Dear Secretary of State, you come from the CNS if I'm not mistaken, so you came here casually without papers and then the most important thing that matters to Croatian citizens how much it will cost, you say what you said about a million, not a million of you said the Croatian word first, and then you're from the Ministry of Education, and then you say more Swiss, what Swiss, Swiss residents of Switzerland. So, in kunas, exactly how much it will cost Croatian citizens. On the other hand, you haven't said how many of our scientists will be able to go there, how many of our teachers will go there, during which period that's what we're looking for you here. And you came here as if you had come to a bar here, no paper, and you say a million Swiss. Is this how you communicate in the Croatian Parliament, so communicate with your friend Minister Divjak from the Croatian National Assembly, and be a little more serious in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142484	Here's your answer. You want an answer? Then let's go to the third line, dear colleague Cellic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142485	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I dare say this is one of the greatest contributions from the current administration of the Ministry of Science and Education. Those who deal with science do not need to be in the field of nuclear and theoretical physics, know how important this is, and we can really throw ourselves around with some cheap populist phrases, whoever was in Geneva, whoever saw what CERN is, who understands what CERN means for the scientific community at global level, but also to increase the visibility of Ruđer Boskovic Institute has no need for any larger further explanations. I would just say here, you mentioned therefore practical application specifically in medicine, since I come from that mile, so PET tomography would not be possible without the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, and now it will be much, much better when we become part of CERN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142486	We've got, uh, I'm sorry, Businessman's injury, colleague Zekanovic for a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142487	My colleague didn't ask him a question about my replica, and I'm not a populist, and I'm for CERN to get along, and that's how it is. Mr. Secretary of State here has spoken to us this is embarrassing, and even more embarrassing to have you defend to defend your coalition partner, HNS [[Agreement: colleague Zekanovic.]] This way. [[Agreement: colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142488	My colleague Zekanovic, therefore you did not first refer to the article that was injured, the second colleague Celic did not mention you, you recognized yourself in his statement that is your right, but it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, what Mr. Celic said, Agent Cellic was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So please don't do that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142489	Good day, therefore economic and economical, the benefit of which is not only Ruđer Boskovic, there are the Institute of Physics, there are the Institute of Medical Research, University of Split, University of Rijeka, engineering companies. Just when there was a delegation of CERN there were just the most impressed precisely with Roman cars which is one of Croatia's key economic excerpts and they will as well be able to, I and how I believe and profit economically from CERN so that it is a very, very wide story, an excellent story for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142490	And let's go to the last line, Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142491	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, first of all to commend your relationship with the Croatian Parliament and your behaviour in the Croatian Parliament, it has unfortunately become a rare thing, but I am glad you said why you came here and what you are looking for here. You will have support, one question just technically explain to me and the Croatian public. When we talk about projects and sending students, the professor on CERN projects that will be there whether these costs, our membership that you're talking about a million francs, whether and all of the benefits that we're going to receive from that membership, whether those funds cover all the costs or whether the Republic of Croatia will have to do more, or individual colleges or institutions to make it possible for those students to stay there, their housing, their diet, everything, is all involved? You can explain that a little bit, the question is, is that this million francs is the final framework or will it be necessary to allocate more funds and who will decide on it? I'm afraid they wouldn't come again if they weren't able to go again, but those they decided I should politically reward. There, question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142492	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142493	Thank you for asking, this million Swiss francs, I don't know this current kuna ratio, the franc will cover the departure of those students, teachers. What they're not going to cover are the costs they've covered so far, these are, say, the costs of these individual experiments on CERNU-type CMS or ALIS that will remain, but they'll be able to from these millions of Swiss francs will be covered and the costs of, say, permanent employees including leaving engineers on that, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142494	Thank you. Now we're going to ask the committee reporter if he wants to take the floor? No, then I open the debate and the first one is HDZ representative and, on behalf of the club, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142495	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, here it is before us, so the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of Croatia as an associated member of CERN, I will only mention that this proposal has been discussed and unanimously accepted by the parent Committee on Science, Education and Culture, and when we talk about some history of Croatian and European Nuclear Research Organisation's cooperation, then I need to remind myself that RH has started cooperation with CERN on 18 July 1991 when a cooperation agreement was signed between the European Organisation for Nuclear Research and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was signed on the future development of scientific and technical cooperation and research under the CERN projects. and, of course, during continued cooperation since then, groups of scientists have been involved in various CERN programmes, especially as we have already had the opportunity to hear from the Ruđer Bošković Institute, the University of Zagreb, the University of Split and the University of Rijeka. And I need to remind and mention that different scientists from these institutions in the context of various activities in collaboration with colleagues published over 300 scientific papers, developed a number of doctoral dissertations and held more than 150 professional and scientific popular lectures. Similarly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded on 6 February 2014 that the procedure for Croatia's accession to the associated membership of CERN and following that conclusion, the Ministry of Science and Education sent a letter to the Director-General of the CERN Council requesting the launch of all necessary steps for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to associated membership. Following a visit by the CERN three-member operational group, the Council submitted a draft agreement in October 2018 on the allocation of an associated member, on the basis of the standard provisions of the form of the Agreement. And I will remind you that the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and CERN on which the associated status is granted to Croatia was signed in February last year more precisely on 28 February at the Technical Museum in Zagreb. And in fact, this law that we're discussing today confirms this agreement. It is very short on CERN itself, so let me remind you that the European Nuclear Research Organisation was founded in 1954 and that today it has an eye, it has 22 members and employs about 2.5 thousand people. And here on various projects, there are still some 17,000 scientists from around the world. And that's why it proves that CERN is an important organization on a global scale. And let me remind you that CERN has its four main missions primarily fundamental research in the field of physics and elementary particles, then the development of new technologies, then education and training of young scientists and then students and professors. And what I think is very important is the expansion of global cooperation in the world of science and in general. And as I have already mentioned and colleagues earlier, a number of Croatian scientists have been working with CERN for many years and, of course, associated membership opens up a series of opportunities for Croatia that will primarily affect the empowerment of its scientific and then also by being very important and economic capacity. And, of course, after the entry into force of this law that we have before us, first and foremost the institutions in the Republic of Croatia will be able to participate equally in projects financed by CERN, and the use of technology developed on CERN and then installing that technology into its own products will also be possible. And of course, the possibility of a longer stay for our students at CERN will increase, and that is already explained, I am glad that this question has been raised through replicas without additional investment. Of course, it will be possible to send especially physics teachers to longer summer stays on CERN and equally that there is no negligible possibility of getting more jobs to perfect scientists in the field of natural and technical professions which I hold is particularly important for our young scientists and scientists. Of course, it is expected that all of this will affect the capacity to develop basic sciences, then the higher quality of educational potential for graduate and doctoral students, especially in the fields of natural and technical sciences, and will also affect the increased mobility of scientists and experts, and I also believe that this will also increase the capacity to transfer knowledge and technology, especially in the field of computer and medical technologies, quantum engineering, etc.. Of course, in addition to this scientific long-term interest of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with CERN, it is also of a serious economic nature. Thus, as I have already said, what will be possible for Croatian economic operators to apply to competitions opened by CERN which I consider particularly important for the opening of new business opportunities on the European market for Croatian companies, especially in the field of software, construction and electrical engineering, the area of healthcare as well. It is already noted that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia will pay an annual membership fee of a total amount of one million Swiss francs, i.e. at an annual level. And as we also stressed on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and it is somehow my opinion to all of us together remains in the future to see how much through the associated membership of CERN we will be able to withdraw and secure funds, be participated, participate in various competitions and how much, in fact, we will be able to put these millions of Swiss francs back on the annual level. I believe that we have very capable scientists and capable people who will not only justify these millions of Swiss francs invested on an annual level but multiply these funds. And according to this, therefore, I myself as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and as well as my colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ Club, this bill of law, so the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research on the allocation of the status of the associate member, will very much support, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142496	The second club is SDP's Club of Representatives, respected colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142497	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike some colleagues who are trying to sell quasi sovereign fog, it is clear that symbolically this debate comes at the right time on the day when we mark the day of the Croatian Parliament. It is a pity that this elite term that has been given the point was accompanied by such a miserable number of parliamentary representatives, it would be likely that the quasi-supervist topics were of greater interest and this is indeed a historic moment given the importance of this point and Croatia's entry into associated membership in CERN. Otherwise, Croatia invests in research and development of only 0.87% of GDP and is unlikely to reach the declared goal of 1.4% by 2020 at the same time in the EU, the average is 3%. Investment in research and innovation is an investment in Croatia's future. Europe has pointed out for the Europe 2020 Strategy that it promotes smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and development as the main way for Europe's competitiveness in global terms. Otherwise, one data that shows how important this is to Europe, only 7% of the world's population lives in Europe but Europe makes 20% of the world's investment in research and development, publishes 1/3 of all high-quality scientific publications, has a leading position in industrial sectors such as pharmaceuticals, chemicals, engineering, fashion. Thus, this law that we have here today in the debate in the Croatian Parliament has added importance. I must point out that I am particularly proud and pleased because the conclusion on the launch of the accession process for Croatia was brought to CERN by the Government in which I was Minister, 6 February 2014 and the same year the development plan for the innovation structure researcher, which was further promoted in 2016, was adopted. I therefore feel that as part of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, I have contributed to this once again, a historic moment. Therefore, this legislative proposal confirms the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and CERN on the allocation of the status of associated member, which will allow equal participation of Croatian institutions on projects financed by CERN, which will increase the capacity to develop based sciences, increase the quality of educational potential for graduate and doctoral students in the fields of natural and technical sciences, as well as mobility of scientists and experts. It is also very important to increase the capacity to transfer knowledge and technology in the field of computer, medical technology, technology in the field of co-legislative magnets, photo detectors and quantum engineering. The introduction of laws from the aspect of the integration of Croatian science and economy into highly developed international institutions will strengthen the development of the scientific and economic potential of the Republic of Croatia and contribute to achieving our 1.4% of GDP goal as soon as possible. Otherwise CERN has 4 main missions, these are fundamental research in the field of particle physics, the development of new technologies, education and training of young scientists, students and professors and the expansion of global cooperation in science which contributes to world peace. Our scientists have been working with CERN for 40 years but this associated membership opens up a series of opportunities through the employment of Croatian scientists, the conclusion of contracts of Croatian industry with CERN and education and training of scientists, students and students. One historical data, CERN was founded in '54. Mr. precisely with the goal of stopping the departure of the best European physicists in America. Today it's a global, world-wide force that employs 2,500 people, but on various projects, it brings together 17,000 scientists, a hundred nationalities from all over the world. In recent years CERN has been particularly famous for the discovery of Higgs boson but here is one educational fact for all those who follow our work, CERN is also the birthplace of top technologies such as something that today is an integral part of every household, the world network of World Wide Web. Thus, many Croatian scientists praised this initiative when signing in February of this year, here, I will quote only some of them, the Rector of the University of Rijeka Snježana... Samažija stressed association with CERN is extremely important because the future of science is in such large collaborations and projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We at the University of Rijeka are too happy to be part of the consortium that participated in this great project. Daniel Juranic, a longtime Croatian physicist at CERN, says, since '71. Mr. When I started working at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, it's about joining CERN, now I'm already retired, but I'm very glad it finally happened. Current Director David Smith, Ruđer Boskovic Institute says our physicists have been cooperating in CERN for a long time, this is a recognition of their efforts and research, it is important for both our sciences and Croatia as a whole. So it's hard to actually understand that someone can even have something against this legislative proposal and associated membership of Croatia to CERN. So joined membership in CERN represents a completely new opportunity for Croatian scientists, teachers and teachers, as well as an innovative industry that can significantly improve its business processes by participating in CERN and its competitions worth 500m euros a year. Some of our companies and so far have been involved in this, but now they have a new opportunity and have actually been given access to a whole new market. By entering CERN, Croatia will become an equal member of one of the world's largest and strongest scientific laboratories, a place where the world for the first time has united around scientific ideas and now Croatian scientists will participate in this more easily and fully evenly. It is an exceptional achievement for Croatian science and given the importance science should have in society as a whole, it is undoubtedly a big step for Croatia. Therefore, it is clear that the SDP Club will support this legislative proposal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142498	Thank you. The third debate of the Club of Representatives of the HNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142499	I thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State Anticic with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, now that I can count you and the names, but here I think this is an opportunity and that the public hears in fact, and also to commend all the efforts that fellow Jovanovic said, which took place on a formal request in 2014, which were finalized by the work of this administration, first of all, in the last few years. And we know that in 12 months we have just signed this agreement that we ratify or confirm today. As we heard, and I won't repeat myself too much, but I think this is one great and opportunity and recognition for development primarily of Croatian science and scientists and joining this prestigious scientific society as one of the world's largest and most respected scientific research centres. So, I think we should just apostrophe what we're getting from this, so this opens up the education opportunities that CERN is offering from various programs for students to doctoral programs that are mostly focused on engineers or on the stem area or in the application of new technologies. There are also opportunities for the Croatian economy and a particularly innovative industry, because we now have the right to participate in CERN competitions of around EUR 500 million a year, where it is certainly possible to significantly improve our business processes, especially IT sectors and creative industries, because it opens up that approach to the new market, and I think it is not, it does not harm to say at the same time that some of our companies have already participated in this, such as Končar and have other opportunities, as we have heard from the Romans or Rimac d.o.o. And while, in fact, what may be most important to our scientists is that, apart from opening the door and the economy and technological development, it is not only a matter of science but also a block of technological economic development of a country that is extremely needed, which is a safe future. What is absolutely for our scientists, or not just scientists, but schools and colleges, in our education community because young people will be given opportunities to achieve their ambitions in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the world, so that through the already mentioned various research programmes, scholarships, etc., I think that is absolutely something we need to use, in the best way to develop our and scientific community, and above all, the economy and everything that is related to, for that part. So, first of all, we're talking about perfecting sciences of the sciences of the sciences of the technical professions of the so-called so-called so-called. CERN fel positions, I think absolutely we become part of an organization where 16000 scientists and 110 different nationalities, respectively, and I think it's enough to say that researchers publish daily, those who work on CERN, 3 research sciences. 300 students per year enter this research program that I have said and we are actually becoming one here, giving our young, our scientists the opportunity to get from the Republic of Croatia what they can have, it's actually the strongest message plus the messages to our businesses that they can develop, that they can compete, that they can draw knowledge, that they can improve themselves and absolutely that we can be more competitive on the world market tomorrow right through participation in CERN and all that it brings. CERN as already said here, is what we can most classically tell us what brings it, first of all, colleague Jovanovic mentioned here that they are responsible for those three w... Of course, I would also add touch screen technology, various medical applications, first of all pioneer ventures are designed to produce 5 scanners, etc., therefore, for medical purposes, for scientific purposes, in everything that is applicable today to the wider market and that is the link if we look at a Concar or a Roman through the automotive industry, all that further research and science offers, that can be applied later and that we can certainly get that stopper. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So once again congratulations to the entire team headed by the secretary of state who worked for the last year and a half to two days on this, surely and of course congratulations and thanks to everyone when it started in 2014 and to the adoption of all the necessary documents and I think this is one good news, that this is one good example, that when we get away from all the unnecessary disputes, ideologies and various non-essential for our citizens' questions that, the truth that we should continue to work on these things, yes, the result will come and the result will already be seen today and these are certainly what we are worth taking. Of course, the HNS Club will support this part with one big congratulations to the whole team, of course, and calling for everyone to further our scientists, our businessmen, to engage, to engage, and to make the most of what we have enabled them here today, or what we will enable them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142500	Thank you, too. We are now going to the debate of the Living Walls Club and the SNAGA and colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142501	Before the debate on a concrete item on the agenda, I want to question the legitimacy of the parliamentary majority making decisions in HS, including this current one. In fact, you all know that HDZ has suffered an election defeat in these elections, that their pride and haughtiness of their leadership has led to fiasco, and that's what the election results say, it's not just my opinion. The fact is that people are running from our country, no one can deny it. Another indisputable fact is that HDZ voters are running away from HDZ, so the person who leads both the state and the party leads both in a way that actually distances people from each other. As far as his partners in the Parliament are concerned, it's clear to all of us that not all your partners have raised 5% together, you've all seen that. The HSLS, which supports the ruling majority, had, however below 0.5%, I think. Not to talk about the other partners. The HNS also had no result. HDS, Mr. Hrga's client. Same disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142502	Comrade Pernar, please return to the debate, an analysis of the election may be another time, but now the point is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142503	Dear Chairman, I have been elected to the HS by the will of the Croatian people and, according to the Rules of Procedure, I now have the right to speak on behalf of the Club for 15 minutes. I was currently talking for 13 minutes, 12, 11, 10, 9 seconds, etc. It's you. [[Intruder: Please stick to the topic, it says in the Rules of Procedure.]] You can only force me out of the House, as you have so far and your prime minister is leading his party and you have seen the result, and you are free to continue with the same policy. [[Intruder:...needs to warn an agent who does not speak on the subject, so please speak on the subject.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142504	Comrade Pernar, I beg you, so now I ask you to stop for a moment. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure of the HS clearly states that there is a need to talk about the subject which is the subject of the debate because in the article. 238 says the representative must not talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion during the debate. That's what's up with you. 238. You're talking about an analysis of the election, it's not the subject of the debate, so please return to the topic of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142505	The Honorable Chairman. I'm trying to explain, and I started at the very beginning, that it's about the subject, and here's why. Because the question is whether or not this majority can make this decision about CERN, whether it has legitimacy or not, whether it represents most of the electoral body or not, whether it is the majority elected by the voters in the elections or whether it is some commercial majority that does not have the support of the people because otherwise, you now think it might not matter. Maybe it doesn't matter what HDZ doesn't support, i.e. support perhaps a fifth of the electoral body, and all other coalition members together may have 5%. This may not be questionable to you in the context of this decision, but I personally consider it an important issue. It's a question of legitimacy. So you, like, means the debate on a decision can't be limited solely to that decision, but the question has to be asked, and does the majority who makes that decision make it legitimate to do so? That's the question I'm asking here today. Of course, you will, you will. And as your prime minister views himself as a successful prime minister of the state, and I say the residents are running away from him or the successful president of the party, and HDZ voters, who are their members do not want to vote for them, he also views himself as a successful party president. You probably think of yourself as a successful president of the Parliament and what you're trying to do, because the question of legitimacy here is crucial in HS. But that question is pushed under the carpet. We're now discussing some kind of cooperation with CERN. But let's first question who makes this majority who makes that decision. Whether it's the majority who's voting by conscience or being blackmailed, spent time in prison, has charges against themselves, lawsuits, let's say for the torture of people, murder, etc. Because these people, when you're the ruling majority, are a man who's been in prison and has, in his own time, had a verdict against himself and is currently under trial for the murder and torture of people, and the question is, how free is this person to make decisions by his will? So I'm going back to the scale of things. I don't think this decision on CERN is possible until the previous issue is discussed. And the previous question is what is the legitimacy of this government and whether the Prime Minister should actually call new parliamentary elections. From what we've seen in these elections, we've seen the total deluge of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142506	He's a colleague of Pernar's. You're having a good time, that's fine. But I still ask you to return to the subject because I will be forced to give you a warning. This is in the Rules of Procedure of the HS that you must stick to the subject and I am obliged to warn you and if you do not stick to the subject, so I ask you to find a little wiser way of speaking that I cannot warn you because what you are doing to me, the Rules of Procedure asks me to warn you because you do not stick to the subject, and you try to find a way in your speech and to expose you to be closer to the subject, so that I cannot stop or warn you then, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142507	The Honorable Chairman. With all due respect, if I'm not allowed to speak here, then I will be silent here at the pay phone and by my silence, I will say everything I think about this subject, the way Prime Minister Plenkovic leads the state, my party and you this Parliament. And of course about the current agenda. If I can't talk, here we go. .../The speaker shuts up at the pay phone. The speaker shuts up at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142508	My colleagues and colleagues, please do not disturb your colleague Pernar in silence. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that silence is a violation of the Rules of Procedure so I can't warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142509	.../The speaker shuts up at the pay phone. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142510	I think a breach of the Rules of Procedure would, uh, need them, if you'd like to have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142511	Well, that you yourself, Mr. President, have found out that Article 238 was injured because the colleague did not therefore speak about the subject of the debate, but I think there was something good in this silence and that we have returned to the subject that needs to be approached with respect and seriousness. The theme is too important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142512	I thank my colleague Bedekovic, and I warned my representative, so he was broken by the Rules of Procedure and we settled it. We are now going to the Independent Representatives' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142513	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I will agree with predecessors who said this topic is extremely important. I will also point out once again that I was particularly impressed by the arrival of the secretary of state in the Croatian Parliament when he made it clear why he came and what he asked of the Croatian Parliament. Lately, we have been witnessing that according to the Croatian Assembly, not by the guilt of others, but by the guilt of us and our conduct alone, I am speaking primarily of representatives in the Croatian Parliament that this body has led to this level that many who come to the Croatian Parliament do not have respect for this body, nor do they say why they came, and they expect that if it is about the ruling proposal, they will gain such binco support. So, this topic is extremely important for her to be discussed, I'll take the right to discuss this subject, I'm not a scientist, I'm an engineer from the field of technical expertise, I know some things, I don't know more, but I find this topic extremely interesting because there are a number of aspects why it's important. I will use this opportunity, I suppose, that the minister is not here because today is a cabinet session, to congratulate the minister, of course, both her associates and the signing of the agreement, which was said by her colleague Bedekovic, already last year, and therefore the Independent Representatives' Club will support this legislative proposal to confirm an agreement to join such an important international institution. Albert Einstein said a long time ago that it's easier to break an atom than human prejudice, and that's what it really is. We are talking here about something that has profound implications or can have a great impact on our future and the future of our children, of course this story has been going on since 1954, counterpart Jovanovic stressed that at the time SFRY was one of the founders, of course, and the Republic of Croatia was part of that Federation, in '61. The same association went away just because there wasn't money, or there wasn't enough wisdom and brains to keep it going. Why is joining such an international institution important? So I'm going to say it this slightly trivially in a master's dictionary, without tools, there's no trade. So, at this point in time, the Republic of Croatia, which stands out for science, someone here mentioned 9.8% of GDP, which is extremely low. RH which if we only observe the health and pension system has a hole that you know is how many times larger, 4 million times larger than this membership fee that we have to pay for participation in such an important institution. So at this point, our budget is facing the past, unfortunately because of the sins of the past, because of everything we've done in the past, and these millions of francs are facing the future. This is an important element and, of course, 500 million euro of competitions are available to the Republic of Croatia through science, whether through entrepreneurship, the development of entrepreneurship, and, if I may say so, allow me to say that as in quantum physics, there is no linear progress, but there are always some leaps, and for these jumps, there are steps in innovation and new technologies. And that's why this is important. So, apart from the fact that the Croatian economy will be able to develop and develop new technologies through participation in this association, it will also be able to compete for 500 million euro through a tender. So, he'll be able to come forward now, as he said, I think the secretary of state said he would no longer be just subcontractors or colleagues of Bedekovic, I'm not sure, but he could also be contractors. So, uh, this approach also has benefits for science, benefits for the economy after all and for the whole society. What I'd like to mention, a little bit of this, was very nice to me, CERN's director writes, at least in the biography she was, she studied in the field of social science, literature and art, and then as it says in the biography, she decided to doctorate the physics of elemental particles, really fascinating. And what the Minister also emphasizes to me in the Republic of Croatia, of course the Ministers before her is this lifelong learning and what all man can do in all stages of his life, so this lady has proved that she can, so she has decided to doctor in the field of physics and elemental particles. So that's another thing we can do, we can learn. What is now, in the end, to conclude that the debate is not too long, it certainly needs to be supported, this agreement and it will have, participation in such institutions and research, there are deeper implications for society, not only in the area of finance, the economy but in general and the world-wide horizon. Believe me, this is a world-wide question of discovering God's particle or the relationship of matter and energy, sometimes the physics textbook is called Matter and Energy, I remember it, and it's precisely these transitions that speak of what is visible, which is invisible. And if you want about God, I believe in God and my God is an intelligent god, a god of science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142514	We are now going to the discussion of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142515	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I was a little bit into the attack, I really liked that silence here, it was one pretty big advance, that is, a contribution to the quality of our debates, but I'm still going to say a few words about this proposal that's ahead of us that talks a lot in a lot of directions. So, first of all, we're really happy and we're looking forward to finally getting there. I think it shows to what extent some of these truly valuable and important projects are important to the success of continuity. It's something that started as an initiative in 2014. And unlike our usual approach, that every government believes that history and everything else begins with it, and everything before that was wrong and all that's wrong is those before. This is one project that the Governments continued to work on after 2014 and therefore resulted in the success of this associated membership of Croatia to the European Nuclear Research Centre. Although the bill says that there are no additional costs, I hope that this will ultimately not turn out to be the case but that this cooperation will also cause greater investment in science in Croatia, and in all aspects of CERN's activities, so also investment in fundamental research, but it seems to me to be a particularly significant investment in young scientists and investing what is an almost unique function of CERN in the education of professors, or teachers who teach physics, therefore working with young people in schools, because this is the place where future scientists are recognised, i.e. recognise areas where they could work and can develop what is for all and for a country like Croatia that has to go to the same industry in terms of other components of our economy such as agriculture and tourism almost and the only area in which it can further develop is the close relationship of the economy with science and scientific research. The University of Zagreb and Rijeka and Split co-operation with CERN, however, is now expanding in particular with regard to Croatian scientists' ability to work directly and run and work directly in collaboration with CERN scientists on scientific projects. In fact, it is interesting and in this respect this project is going exactly in the opposite direction of one that is quite strong not only in Croatia but also globally, and that is kind of political and intellectual and mental ethicalism. At a moment where all the key topics, therefore all the topics that are crucial to our future, such as climate change, science, market, employment, migration, wealth inequality caused by social conflicts, the proxy wars cannot be solved within a country and cross the borders of a country. At the same time in Europe and beyond Europe and certainly also in Croatia, political projects appear which call themselves sovereigns or advocates of sovereignty and are actually isolationists and a kind of manifestation of what is called post truth or post-trust policy, to be a little clearer, the post is actually a policy based on a lie that equally treats inventions and scientific facts, which want to equate knowledge and ignorance, and thinks that this is the essence of equality, which advocates the fact that the country is a flat plate, that there is no need to be vaccinated that, and so many different thesis. In these conditions cooperation with one of the most qualitative scientific institutions in Europe is not just a matter of science of the possibility of cooperation and development of science in Croatia. It's an absolute and political question, so what we're committed to here, for knowledge or for not knowing. For the truth, in other words lies or for the possibility of getting to the truth through international broad cooperation to solve those problems that are absolutely the most dangerous and most significant today, and not to speak tomorrow, absolutely cross even the largest countries, let alone a small Europe. And from that point of view, co-operation with CERN and Croatian associated membership is one in a series of steps in the wrong direction, one step in a very good direction and from that point of view and an attempt to counter that culture of post-truth and marginalisation of every reason and attitude based on facts and reason. So that message might be good to expand further, not leave it just like this in one narrow and perhaps at first glance in an isolated circle. A little wider, advertise, which means, not only for physicists, not only for scientists, but also for the health of Croatian society, and in our opinion, it certainly means one positive step in all these dimensions and the GLAS and HSU Club will definitely support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142516	I thank you, too. We've come to the end of the debate of the assembly clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, very briefly in this individual section. In fact, I would like to highlight something that my colleague Pusic also spoke of, and that is so that we should not allow in Croatia that the change of administration will lead to a blockage of projects. So, we heard, our membership in CERN will be about a million Swiss francs, but the assumption is that this million will double in favour of Croatian science, research and development. Therefore, the government in which I was the minister reached a conclusion on Croatia's accession, launched the procedure on February 6th 2014, and it took five years for the conclusion to be operationalised. So, I thank Minister Divjak, Secretary of State Anticic, who, thanks to the scientists themselves, did what was completely contrary to their predecessors. So, Mr. Barisic, Mr. Shustar has done everything possible to keep this project in drawers and therefore this delay. Therefore, I am glad that the Ministry of Science and Education with Minister Divjak and Mr Antičić finally unblocked the initiative that was prepared in our mandate and already by half 2014, all the necessary steps, planned resources in the state budget, European funds, so that the project could have started really safely before 3.4 years ago. Therefore, already at that time, the importance of internationalising our sciences, including world knowledge flows, not only CERN but also the European Space Agency, as well as... our scientific centres of excellence, infrastructure projects, software contracts, funding of the national component of scientific projects through the Croatian Foundation for Science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a big step for the ministry's current and programming contracts. The University of Rijeka, University of Pula, first signed programming contracts that provided 20% more funding for research, while at the same time the Zagreb University did not even start negotiations and in some ways obstructed a praise-worthy project of the ministry that should provide more money to our scientists. Therefore, where the HDZ Government has tampered with the clerical and general influences and choirs through Ministers Shuster and Barisic, and today we hear such outbursts about some quasi-supervist fog that wants to bring our science into the fog. We actually stopped there completely and got an unrecognizable parody or initiatives that were completely stopped. Therefore, my message is clear. If we have one project that certainly brings well-being to Croatia, we intend to quasi-supervised fogs and define what will ensure that Croatian scientists are part of the international scientific community and ensure research and development in Croatia that surely guarantees Croatia's future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142518	There's no replica, so let's go to another debate, dear colleague of the Voice. She's gone, so she loses her right of speech, and then we're up to our esteemed colleague Marko Vučetic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142519	I thank the president of HS. This debate, this law, concerns the civilization in which the whole world lives, the civilization that Croatians are going towards, which is the civilization of the 4th Industrial Revolution. Scientists are already in the revolution, Croatia is not found there. It is true that when it comes to scientific policies, and this law stems from scientific policies, there is also a trail of certain ministers. It is clear that both in this law and in this Croatia's accession to CERN membership, it is also to feel this thought, mental and motivational trail of the current minister, but although it is a personal dimension, it is a dimension that produces good, desirable consequences, so we can also view the minister's trail as a desirable clue in this law. When it comes to post-truth relations or some of our sovereign quasiideologies that we are in, it is clear that we can expect a reflex, that as soon as it comes to some international bodies, legal entities at international level that either the Split Riva or in the souls of the sovereigns will arise a rebellion against what is supposed to be national or some other identity. National identity today is the identity of science, which is the identity in which we become citizens of the world, and we only become citizens of the world if we allow scientific paradigms to be replaced and that every scientific paradigm better interprets what was before. I'm going to give you an example right this month of our May that we were in place 200 years ago, someone would have already declared Our Lady Snow or Lady Ice, now that we're in 2019. We have a scientific paradigm that explains it in such a way that we don't give in to our own irrationality, our own fears, but we go to meet a safe world, a world that we can explain on the basis of knowledge. The scientific paradigms are such that we still have a bit of an understanding when we speak in Croatian context, which is that somewhere in the philosophy of science in the last 30-40. physics loses domination within natural sciences and there is an expression of molecular biology, biomedical, biotechnology, but the results that occur in CERN allow us to develop and establish new scientific paradigms and new scientific dominations, or to disappoint the world. When we succeed in defecating the world, then we will live in a world of truth, not in a world of truth, we will live in a world of humanity, not in a world of bitter activist identity in which we will view others as enemies and try to correct them to be fully in line with our vision of the world that disappeared 200 years ago, it disappeared because the scientific paradigms, the work of scientific knowledge, declared him as those who do not give a plasible explanation. I, however, should refer to the Ministry of Our Science, which is that it should not be allowed, especially through programming contracts, to marginalise some other scientific areas, such as social and humanistic sciences. Why? If we want to establish some kind of unique science or science that corresponds to man, then it is necessary to set a course for establishing certain values or ethics. If we don't create civil society, then it's really not possible to create science. Scientific policies that will marginalise social and humanistic sciences will be scientific policies that lead to us becoming less and less citizens, giving us the growth of scientific, natural scientific knowledge that we are talking about today and the sciences that are being studied in CERN, but the growth, meaning and this citizenship allow us these social humanities, so I would urge you as representatives of the ministry to take into account these consequences of distribution of material goods to social humanistic sciences, if they are marginalised, that they will lead to civil rights being taken away, and thus will lead to misunderstandings which make this law important today, which is why the results of scientific research are significant, which is why scientific discoveries lead to change, why these changes have either constructive or destructive character, that is all that can be observed, which is why in one thought world. Prof. Pusic spoke of the world of fasting, the world of fasting is a world in which he has no consciousness because we cannot speak of consciousness if only we exist, my consciousness is not there unless there is someone else, in order to know myself, it is necessary to be someone else, in order for natural technical sciences to exist, it is necessary to be social humanistic, in order for the Croatian nation to exist, it is necessary that there are other nations. The world of fasting, the world of nationalism, the world of bewitched society is a world in which any development is prevented, and that is the world in which there is one single legality, and that is the legality of absent entities. Some fellow Pernar, in violation of his rules of procedure, also spoke about the results of these election processes. It is true that all those who feel that they have lost in these elections, that what we are now discussing and what we are going to do and what the Republic of Croatia is introducing thanks to this law is, this is the world of knowledge, scientific knowledge, the world of truth, the world of untransparent growth, the world of growth of scientific paradigms, and that is something that we can only support, if not at the level of the institution, it will certainly be those who support it and at a personal level, as have many scientists from 1991 to today and thanks to the motive and knowledge of these scientists and their institutions have participated in the growth of scientific knowledge, scientific paradigms and have made it possible for the Republic of Croatia to have these well-known subjects who have already included us in the world of knowledge, and we now lagrate and give recognition of all of our noble jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142520	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142521	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I've already said at the beginning what I don't like, and now I'm going to say what I like and we'll do it again later. So, as for cooperation with CERN, of course 5+, the better, the greater, the more co-operation with such institutions as this International Institute of Nuclear Research, it contributes to the well-being of our country, our citizens, our sciences. It helps our scientists, and I'm glad our teachers and students will have the opportunity to go there. And that's good. And we welcome that. Everyone followed the hunt for God's particle, these are things that are fantastic, well after 50 years, 48 years if I'm not mistaken for hard work and hard work, the effort still paid off. And this CERN has become one of the origins of scientific thought, of the most modern physics in the world. And that's what's good, and that's what I welcome and that's how much cooperation we send as many scientists there, as many scientists as possible, and get back with scientific achievements to our homeland and that we as a country are making progress. That's good. However, I have criticized you earlier, and I will say again justifiably criticized you because you really should have come here in a slightly more serious way. So, you've come here to the highest home of the Croatian people as state secretary, you're a man who works in science, your whole life, and you've been the director of Ruđer Boskovic if I'm not mistaken. And I know that this job may be new to you now, different, maybe also foreign, but here you should have informed the Croatian public about the important things, and these are the financial and concrete aspects of this law that we are making. I don't see either of you, or a colleague, or a single piece of paper, or even a bill of law that you're talking about. And then when I ask you a question, and the second time I ask you, I ask you to answer it, to come to this pay phone here, to have time to call yours to the ministry and to say specifically, exactly how much this cooperation will cost the Croatian state, and you need to know. I'm also for a bigger amount maybe, but you can't say like you said, a million Swiss, which, if Swiss, is very unserious. On the other hand, I ask you as a representative in this home for concrete information on how many scientists went there, to know, I want to know, what achievements they have returned to, what fields they have worked on, you have this very long time to explain it all and say, all of this on the other hand, not to me, but to the Croatian public and to say what we now as an associate member of CERN have in the future. So that's your job. So, you're no longer in science, you're now Secretary of State in one ministry and your way, your approach here is extremely unserious. I'll split two things here, you're a very good scientist, but you're doing the Secretary of State's work sloppyly. So, you still have a chance to sit here, next time get ready and be prepared for these questions because next time you will be asked. And now I expect you to come for the pay phone, take advantage of the possibility as a bill promoter and answer these questions that I have asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142522	Mr. Zekanovic, the particle of God is not enough, but you have another, you have another, you have another, you have a replica, so you can answer then. Mr. Kirin was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142523	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, since he is also a respected representative of Zekanovic, since it is too expensive for economic giants to have such facilities, they are associated with membership in CERN and therefore I ask you, would you say that our membership is too expensive, that you think that they should still be paying us into the State budget so that we are members of CERN, or would Croatia, could this be realistically built by LCH?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142524	Here you go, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142525	Mr. Kirin, you didn't hear me, I said that I might have given more money for CERN because I think it's extremely good and I commended CERN as a project, so you didn't listen to me very carefully, that's one important difference. On the other hand here you vice president of the assembly simply have to make your comment and violate the Rules of Procedure, so Huggs boson or means the nickname is a particle of God, if you have a problem with it, contact the Swiss or whoever gave that nickname and ask to change, maybe be Tito's particle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142526	Absolutely not. I'm for CERN membership. Let's go now, you want something, okay, okay, thanks. Then I'll close the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142527	Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research on the allocation of the status of associated member in the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, second reading, P.Z. Number 639. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 109 votes for and 4 abstentions have been adopted by the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research on the allocation of the status of associated member in the European Organisation for Nuclear Research.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142528	We are going to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the European Union, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 637 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall apply, as is clear from the titles relating to the first reading of the law. The two committees held a debate, both for legislation and for finance and the state budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142529	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs, as has been introduced before us, is the Proposal for a Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU, and this proposal for a law in the Croatian Tax System implements Council Directive 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017, and the Directive is called the EU Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms Directive. In fact, double taxation of the profits of entrepreneurs in different Member States has a negative impact on cross-border investment, creating an unstable environment for both taxpayers and tax authorities. Currently, there are already mechanisms between EU Member States to resolve double taxation disputes, such as joint agreement procedures under the Double Taxation Treaty. I will only remind you that the Republic of Croatia is currently applying at the world level, 63 contracts to avoid double taxation, yesterday we had a debate on a new law on the confirmation of a contract with Japan that was 64. The second is the EU arbitration Convention on Transfer Price Disputes, i.e. 90/436 EC Convention of 23 July 1990. on the elimination of double taxation in relation to the coordination of profits of related undertakings, however... was that these mechanisms have several shortcomings in terms of scale, efficiency and efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the information available by the EU Member States provides evidence in cases where access to the joint agreement has been denied, procedures blocked or late or burdensome by taxpayers due to compliance with the tax obligation too high. The negative impact of these shortcomings is increased due to globalisation trends driven by the growth of cross-border transactions and the complexity of tax rules. At present, there is often no obligation for Member States to ensure timely and effective dispute resolution, and the application of the dispute resolution mechanism in the EU is unfortunately not unique. In order to find the best solution that EU Member States would take in their legislation, the abovementioned EU Council Directive has been adopted which will combine the existing mechanisms for resolving double taxation disputes in the EU with binding arbitration. This approach is given during consultations at EU level by general support of stakeholders, NGOs, private persons and other interested public and numerous EU Member States, so the aim of the implementation of the Council Directive is to improve dispute resolution mechanisms related to double taxation in the EU in order to ensure effective and effective dispute resolution in cases of double taxation with full elimination of double taxation. The emphasis is on improving existing mechanisms with a view to creating a reasonable timeframe for the process, uniform and wider scope in the EU, and on increasing the effectiveness and security of the implementation of the final decision. This aims to ensure that taxpayers pay a fair share of the tax burden, thus making it possible for the taxpayers to make use of the possibilities of the directive itself. Consequently, removing cross-border tax barriers in the EU creates a suitable environment for growth and investment. In order to effectively improve the resolution of disputes between Member States, a uniform and harmonised implementation of dispute settlement rules is necessary. It is also necessary to resolve disputes consistently, in the context of a global fight against tax evasion. Such a solution should create added value for the EU's acquis in the field of taxation, especially for the so-called framework. transfer prices in terms of efficiency and enforceability. According to this, any taxpayer resident in a Member State whose taxation is directly affected by the subject of the measure is authorised to submit the so-called ‘. the complaint concerning the case of a dispute to the competent authority of a Member State requiring its resolution. The provisions of this proposal for a law will be submitted to all objections which will be made as of 1 July of this year and on matters relating to income, profits and profits, both there and where applicable to capital achieved on a tax year starting on or after 1 January 2018. The process of resolving the basis of this bill takes place in two stages. In the first stage, the competent authorities of the State are trying to resolve the dispute by common agreement and, if they fail to do so by the prescribed deadline, in the second stage, the taxpayer may require the establishment of the so-called so-called. an arbitration body which will resolve the dispute. Therefore, in addition to the procedural provisions of the bill, the law itself contains time limits for the handling of taxpayers and competent authorities in both stages of the procedure. What I would like to stress only here, given that the legal provisions are brought down to some 15, 16 articles, all of these provisions have been transposed from the directive and in the context of these deadlines that you will see if you have been able to look at the law itself, it is extremely complicated in the sense that any party involved in the procedure, how long the procedure will take place with one body and focus on possibly another body if a party or a third party is not satisfied with it, so we would just like to stress that these are all the rules that are transposed into the national legislation of the directive itself, and that, in particular, they also make such rules in the EU, which are unfortunately and complex, but in essence, we believe that we will encourage this at least at the speed of resolving these disputes. Therefore, the complaint by the taxpayer shall be submitted within 3 years of the receipt of the first notification of the procedures which have or will have consequences for it as a taxpayer which do not comply with the international contract, agreement or convention, irrespective of whether the taxpayer has access to the legal means provided for by national law of any Member State, this is very important. Furthermore, as far as the deadlines are concerned, there would be only a short two, three deadlines that seemed important to me because in the law itself, as I mentioned, there are many others who are detailed there. The IRS shall, at the same time, object with the same information to each competent authority, so that each Member State where a dispute over double taxation has arisen and shall state to which all Member States are concerned. The complaint to the Croatian competent authority is made in Croatian and English. The competent authority shall confirm the receipt of the complaint within 2 months. from its receipt and within that time limit, inform the competent authorities of the other Member States concerned of the receipt of the complaint. The competent authorities of the Member States shall, within 2 years of the beginning of the last notification of the decision of one of the Member States of acceptance of the objection, try to resolve the subject matter of the dispute. And by the procedure of mutual bargaining. If the competent authorities have failed to reach an agreement on how to resolve the dispute in question by common agreement within the prescribed time limit, at the request of the taxpayer, they should establish an advisory committee that would settle disputes and which would meet with independent prominent persons who propose the competent authorities of the Member States concerned. Otherwise, this list of independent and respected persons would be published on the website of the European Commission. Member States may, instead of the advisory committee, set up an alternative advisory committee to resolve the dispute, and the bottom line is that this alternative advisory committee can use some other tools which are not strictly provided for by this law or profession itself, thus also being more free to choose the method and method of negotiation. Such a commission may be established in the form of a permanent committee and, as far as this is concerned, the competent authorities are obliged to agree on their way of resolving the dispute in question within 6 months, means, if either one or the other commission takes its decision, it shall take it within 6 months, possibly + 3 months, the competent authorities, in this case it would be the Tax Administration of the Republic of Germany and the Tax Administration of Germany would be obliged to accept or agree entirely different from what the arbitration has been said within 6 months. If they don't agree, then the arbitration decision is binding on each other. The possibility is further specified that natural persons and small enterprises, exceptionally from the provision of the directive, this year's financial report, consolidated financial report and related reports, objections and other submissions, may only be submitted to the competent authority of the Member State whose resident is, therefore, its costs are sought to be reduced and, then, by means of its bodies, the Member State shall inform the other Member States participating in the procedure. With regard to the implementation of the Directive of the expected benefits at this point at the level of taxpayers or Member States, there are no detailed quantified data and forecasts, unfortunately because this is completely new at EU-wide level, including the world. However, for example, it is estimated that the scope of cases in the EU to resolve disputes related to double taxation under the existing mechanism was 909 cases at EU level, so I speak at the end of 2014, and the total value of these disputes was EUR 10.5 billion, which corresponds to around 3% of the total EU-wide profit tax for 2014. As far as the Republic of Croatia itself is concerned, of course we have fresher data, they refer to the past 3rd year. and as regards the procedure for the implementation of the existing resolution mechanism, means, through joint agreement under the arbitration convention or double taxation avoidance contracts, we had in this 3.g. 16 proceedings, 10 of them from 2016, after 3 proceedings in 2017 and 2018, the procedures themselves relate to the transfer prices of 3 proceedings and to the other cases of 13 proceedings. Unfortunately, at present, and I believe that by this law this speed will be even higher, only one procedure has been resolved, and the average time of resolution according to... The calculation for the Republic of Croatia is now 48 months on the basis of this case. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remind you, therefore, according to the bill, this first phase of resolving the dispute without going to arbitration is limited to 2.g. And it can possibly be extended to a maximum by 1st year, which is shorter again than these 48 months we have on the basis of this one case. In addition to insufficient detailed quantified data and forecasts regarding the implementation of the Directive of the expected benefits, there are no data available on administrative costs for tax authorities in the context described above. However, it will be necessary at Member State tax administration level to launch the necessary investments in resources and in administrative capacity to achieve the objectives set internationally. However, it is important to stress that the costs arising from the application of the directive should be limited and should not differ significantly from the costs currently incurred in relation to the existing dispute settlement mechanism under this... double taxation, as the initiative is based on the existing acquis and an optimized combination with the overall framework of transfer prices in the EU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, in terms of creating uniform conditions for competition in the EU, it wants to affect all taxpayers who make business profits. Finally, the adoption of the directive in this proposal for a law should result in lower costs for fulfilling the tax obligation and greater efficiency, in effect positive investment, growth and employment, and on taxpayers. Here, thank you very much for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142530	Thank you. You have one replica, he asked for Mr. Vardo's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142531	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as a principle of justice, I would rather speak of equal conditions for avoiding double taxation because, when it comes to justice, I would warn of an article. 14. compensation of independent prominent persons of EUR 1,000,00 per day and Art. 22. where you say you are determining a fine that will punish independent dignitaries or any other member of the advisory committee or alternative committee, if you normally violate the breach of professional secrecy and information, etc., and the minimum penalty is 500,00 kn, so when we talk about justice, then we bring in a ratio of EUR 1,000,00 per day of work with a minimum penalty of 500,00 kn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142532	Thank you, too. ... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142533	... So, as far as the fee is concerned, it is taken over from the company that has set the directive itself, and we have tried to determine the infringements in a way that these advisory bodies are not necessarily established, but only in cases where these procedures come to one stage, if they come, then they will be evaluated on the basis of their actions, because these prominent persons really need, what they say, are respectable, that they should not be able to share around materials that are business or other secret, so that the very height of punishment is aligned with the Ministry of Justice as far as I know it and it is set out in 500, but also at some higher level, but of course it can happen that, God does not allow certain data to happen to represent some other responsibility, not only in violation, which would not be our wish, nor aim, nor is the aim of this law to punish the experts that we impose on the taxpayers in the context of the two Member States or three Member States. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142534	Thank you, too. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Ivan Shucker first reported to the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, many colleagues and colleagues. We have a technical law ahead of us and I'd say let me use that term highly bureaucratized law so that all those who talk about red tape in the Republic of Croatia can read this law, then they'll see what it means when the law technically prescribes everything that's supposed to be inside. The only thing I want to say on behalf of the club is that these deadlines may still be a little too long in view of the things that have been pointed out. However, I would still start my debate with the principle of finding on behalf of the club 15 years ago or 20 years ago, Croatia did not have a signed agreement with many countries to avoid double taxation. And what does this agreement on avoiding double taxation for citizens and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia mean best to those who at the moment are doing business with here let's take one of the most powerful forces of the economic world, if not America's most powerful. And what that means to our fellow citizens, the second, third or first generation who worked there, earned both pensions and all that, which means when you don't have a contract to avoid double taxation. And this law is passed because of those who may have realized, among other things, that a double taxation agreement for them in certain cases means that maybe we shouldn't pay taxes anywhere. Or if someone in the process, one of the states in this procedure has estimated that a tax is still to be paid. And that these are not negligible procedures is best reflected in one of the figures offered by the applicant, which is that by 2014, 910 such procedures were conducted in total of 10.5 billion euros, or that is a total of 3% of EU profits. So this law is not about the consequences of harmlessness, it is not this law or something that Croatia does not need because simply Croatian entrepreneurs or citizens who have problems. And if he were very much alive, we would go back a few years when in the income tax law, it was built in to tax foreign pensions. You know that by 2012 we had in the Income Tax Act a provision that foreign pensions were not taxed, 2012 was incorporated into the law and then Croatian citizens had a lot of problems especially those who had pensions with Switzerland. What's their tax treatment? Now take people who are not even tax-educated, they have basic information with the force of information they need or do not need to do, but bureaucracy our tax as well as each other and that of Switzerland and that of Germany simply requires that you, at the end of the year, actually start the following year to submit a form on the accounting of annual income tax and many of our citizens were unfortunately there and even in the scissors of the infringement procedure. Our tax administration balanced well in that whole story, it acted educationally. Because if that hadn't happened, there would have probably been a lot of procedures where Croatian citizens would have simply raised the issue and let's not forget that more than 100,000 Croats are currently getting a pension from Germany and some other European countries. I am merely citing one example that this law was then a question of whether some of the Croatian citizens would initiate certain procedures for the simple reason to solve the problem. That's all I'm saying for reasons why this law didn't cause any interest in the debate committee and he's very much alive. He is alive because of several hundred thousand Croats working in Western Europe, he is alive because of several tens of thousands of Croats living in America, and many would like to welcome the end of their lives in the country or in ancient times and Croatia has no signed contract to avoid double taxation with the United States. And speaking of a double taxation contract, there is another contract that is very important and I want to mention it on behalf of the HDZ Club and very often when I have a chance to talk or about any relationship with it is a social security contract. So Croatia simply has to sign it not for the Ministry of Finance but for some other ministry and with the United States, and also with Australia and New Zealand, precisely because of those people who would like to be there for six months, 6 months here and when they come to Croatia have a huge problem with health insurance. So, the State Secretary has explained in such detail this law that I can simply list the names of certain provisions for you to see how many legislators of this law are very much referred to with the problems facing both EU citizens and EU entrepreneurs. So he tried through the law to prescribe procedures to the smallest detail. And even in the composition of this commission, he foresaw one member of one country, another member of another country, and he foresaw that independent member to eliminate any bias. And then he further explained that these members of the commission should behave, which are penalties for their inaction, and if this commission is not established, then there might be some sort of free, surrogate of the commission. So it was just thinking about everything, based on experience in recent years, to make life easier for the natural and legal people who are in a position to be told that they need to pay taxes somewhere and they don't think they should. And the other thing that is very important because of those who are always slapping around the European Community is that it clearly indicates here what conditions are respected and apply the provisions of the law in question in the country of origin. And that's something that's very important. So no one can say that someone will impose this on us here, here in this law, which obliges all EU members simply to apply the provisions of the law of the country of origin. Therefore, these are facts that are simply such and which should be accepted as such. Commendation to the Ministry of Finance that this one technical law has well prepared and sent to the procedure, and to all those who attack Croatia that, especially the tax administration, it is highly bureaucratised, I recommend as a light night reading so they can see what high-burdened law means. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142536	Thank you, too. Mr. Shuker? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142537	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break for the reason that today in this crowded assembly all those who spoke about the poor successes of this government, yesterday we could hear the story of the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds, to simply present something today and put it before them, which is a fact. And that's economic growth in the first three months and what generates that economic growth. Just what was criticised yesterday when we discussed the use of EU funds, today in the report on GDP growth in the first quarter, and what is the biggest generator of that, among other things one of the most important things, those that are standard, which is consumption, investment is used for certain investment projects and projects concerning EU funds. So, on behalf of the HDZ Club and this High House, we want to highlight and emphasize this because when you remember the assessment and the assessment, this is certainly a very pleasant surprise for everyone. When you take what is the main generator of this, it is already an additional surprise because when we discussed and discussed budgeting, then we said that one of the greatest potentials is the opportunity of the Republic of Croatia, how the unit of local self-government, state, state-owned enterprises, and also legal and physical persons are the use of EU funds. And lastly, also on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say, the finance minister today said there is another guarantee on salaries regarding the Uljaniks and if I am not mistaken, he said it is a total of $4.4 billion. All those who spoke of failures uncritically, because look, a guarantee when given, then it's supposed to make something easier for you to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142538	Thank you very much. You can't because that's the end of it. [[Intruder: Too bad I can't answer all the way.]] Besides, it's not about that agenda point. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142539	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Most Independent Lists Club, I demand a half-hour break, here we are, in line with this because we need to discuss within the club why we haven't withdrawn any more funds in the past three years so that we have a growth of at least 10%, but yesterday, here, and when we discussed the use of EU funds, we were actually amazed by the fact that many projects have fallen to the problem of public procurement corruption and other problems that arise, primarily from those who manage these funds and those who should sanction such events. And the dissatisfaction that we can show within the club and we would discuss, is why this success which, here, fellow Shucker has stated, has not crossed over to areas from which a large number of inhabitants come, these are rural areas, if only this success, perhaps in the City of Zagreb, then we have to show dissatisfaction because Slavonia continues to fail, reverses, disappears economic potential, demographic devastation, and while HDZ succeeds in its intention to turn this into an economic success, I fear that half of Croatia will no longer exist, that these are serious topics that we should... If both clubs agree this way that we should discuss it, maybe hold one thematic session and see in fact which direction it goes and why this economic growth is no longer based on the growth of our exports but we still have a negative balance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why does it happen to us that we have ups and downs like this that maybe, on some average, with personal consumption, people are only successful when we narrow down to what is structurally, what is important, then we see our people leaving, that we don't have the workforce anymore, and that we're going to turn practically into one A success in which a successful woman reigns. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142540	Thank you. It is solely because of the part of your argument concerning the draft Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU that I am giving a break, a break of up to 11 and 50 minutes. It's 11:00. 20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] The consultation on the Proposal for a Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU has been completed, so that we can conclude the point. So I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142542	Proposal for a Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU, first reading, P.Z. Number 637. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, a proposal for a Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU and second, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 114 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142543	And now, before us is the point of a long title, the title, I will read: - Proposal for a decision on not giving a credible interpretation of the article. Article 347(1) Paragraph 89(a) of the 7th and Article 89(b) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 shall apply. 303rd of the previous Penal Code published (“National Journal”), No. 110/97, 27/98. - and correction, 50/00. - Constitutional Court Decision, 129/00, 51/01, 11/03, 190/03. – Judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, 105/04, 84/05. - Correction, 71/06, 110/07, 152/08, 57/11. and 77/11. – Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia) – now art. 293th century 1 in relation to Art. In the 87th century, pages 6 and 305. The Penal Code in force from 1 January 2013 (the National Journal), No. 125/11, 144/12, 56/15, 61/15. – Correction 101/17.) related to art. 4th century 2. The Law on Courts (the National Journal) No. 28/13. and 33/15.), Art. 1.a, Art. Article 3 4. Criminal Conventions on Corruption (National Journal), No. 11/00.) and other international conventions, Art. Article 31 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia (‘the National Journal’), No. 85/10 – consolidated text and 5/14. – The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia; I cared very much about reading that whole name, and now the Proposer, I will now say who the Proposer is. The Proposer shall be the Legislative Committee under Article. The 210th century 3 of the Rules of Procedure of HS and now the chairman of the Legislative Committee will tell us exactly what it is. Here you go, ma'am. ... Jelkovac, I'm sorry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maria Jelkovac, chairman of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142544	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. Since you've read this long name motion decision, then I won't, and thank you for replacing me in that. Therefore, at its meeting, the Committee also considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as from 14 June 2018, which is estimated not to meet the assumptions for the granting of credible interpretation. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded that the proposal for a credible interpretation was not established and proposed to the HS to adopt a proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation, Art. Article 347(1) Paragraph 89.7 and Article 7 303rd previous Penal Code, National Journal, No. 110/97, 27/98. - Amendment 50/00, Judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, 129/00, 51/01, 11/03, 190/03, decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, 105/04, 84/05. - Correction, 71/06, 110/07, 152/08, 57/11. and 77/11. – Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia) – now art. 293th century 1 in relation to Art. In the 87th century, pages 6 and 305. The Penal Code in force from 1 January 2013 (the National Journal), No. 125/11, 144/12, 56/15, 61/15. – Correction 101/17.) related to art. 4th century 2. The Law on Courts (the National Journal) No. 28/13. and 33/15.), Art. 1.a, Art. Article 3 4. Criminal Conventions on Corruption (National Journal), No. 11/00.) and other international conventions, Art. Article 31 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia (‘the National Journal’), No. 85/10 – consolidated text and 5/14. — The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia; which is the contribution of this report and which forms an integral part thereof. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142545	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ante Bacic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142546	Thank you, Vice President. I promised myself I'd read these two titles if my colleagues didn't get mad. So, we have before us a proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation, Art. Article 347(1) Paragraph 89.7 and Article 7 303rd of the previous Penal Code, Decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in its corrections, now Art. 293th century 1 in relation to Art. In the 87th century, pages 6 and 305. The Penal Code shall be in force from 1 January 2013. 4th century 2. Laws on courts from the National Journals and Art. 1.a, Art. Article 3 4. Criminal Conventions on Corruption, Other International Conventions, Art. Article 31 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of We heard from the promoter, i.e. Here is the chairman of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Maria Jelkovac, to whom the articles of the law apply, is precisely this demand to give a credible interpretation but also the conclusion of the Legislative Committee itself. Namely, a credible interpretation was requested concerning Article 305 of giving a false statement where the witness, expert, translator or interpreter, who, in the previous criminal proceedings, proceedings and before the court, accepts the international court's fate in the criminal proceedings, administrative proceedings, proceedings in front of a public notebook or a strict procedure, gives false testimony, findings or opinions or something false translates, will be punished in the name of a 6-month sentence. until 5 years of age and Article 293 of the customs duty, the official or responsible person who requests or receives a bribe or who accepts an offer or promise of a bribe for himself or another to carry out, within or outside the border, an official or other action which is not to be carried out or any other action which is not to be carried out, shall be punished by a sentence of 1 to 10 years of imprisonment and Article 87(6) of the responsible person, the natural person who conducts the business of a legal person or, explicitly or truly, the entrusted conduct of the business of a legal person or of a state body or body of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. We have also heard the conclusion of the Legislative Committee itself that it is not necessary for the Croatian Parliament not to give a credible interpretation for reasons because it clearly determines who is considered a responsible person and, accordingly, clearly prescribed penalties for a responsible person in the case of taking a bribe or giving a false statement, the court expert performing the court's order is a person responsible because this court is part of the powers which concern the determination of the facts relevant for the decision being passed on to a court expert. The HDZ Club agrees with this view and the conclusion of the Legislative Committee and therefore supports this proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142547	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic, he's gone, he's losing his right. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, only if the board president doesn't want to say anything at the end, well, thank you. That's how we end it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142548	Please, colleagues and colleagues, so we can move on. Now we have a very long point to read, so listen carefully. Proposal for a Decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 347(1) in respect of Article 89(7) and Article 303 of the previous Criminal Code (National Journal, No 110/97, 27/98, - correction, 50/00 – decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, 129/00, 51/01, 11/03, 190/03 – Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, 105/04, 84/05 – correction, 71/06, 110/07, 152/08, 57/11 and 77/11 – judgment of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia) — now Article 293(1) in respect of Articles 87, paragraphs 6 and 305. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Courts Act (National Journal, Nos. 28/13 and 33/15), Articles 1a, 3rd and 4. Criminal Conventions on Corruption (National Journal, No. 11/00) and other international conventions, Articles 31 and 141. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia (National Journal, issue 85/10 – consolidated text and 5/14 – Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia). The proposer is the Committee on Legislatives, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 96 votes for and 5 abstentions have been decided in the text as proposed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142549	And now we move to the last point, the morning point of today's, that is: - The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the spatial plan of the area of special features of the Plitvice Lakes National Park is the Proposing Club of Representatives, just to read, Mr. Bunjac Mr. Bunzak, let me just read the dot, and then I'll give it to you. [[Mr. Vice President...]] Thank you. [[Intruder Bunjac: Let's read.]] The proposal shall be made by the Representatives' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and by the Committee on Law, the government delivered an opinion. And before I give a representative my word, I will give the word to Mr Branimir Bunjc, who asked for the word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142550	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, can you please explain to me what this morning item of the agenda is, is there an evening item on the agenda and if there is, what is the difference between morning and evening points since this should be the last point today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142551	So I realized that it was the last one, that we will continue to work in the afternoon but you are in fact entitled to, Mr. Bunjac, it seems we will not continue to work in the afternoon if we finish this item of the agenda, on my surprise, there will be no work in the afternoon and today is Croatian Parliament Day and you know what it means in the morning, at 12.45 is the celebration of the Day of the Croatian Assembly. ... Yeah, yeah, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Now they've explained it to me because it's morning, Mr. Bunjac, because at 3:00, it's club statements, so on. I'll take a break. That's the afternoon part and then after that, we'll all be free, after that statement, and now I'm asking a ritual question, does the proposing's representative want to give an additional explanation? He wants to, go ahead, Mr. Bunzac. In the morning section, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142552	Thank you very much Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry, it is my special honor to speak in the Croatian Assembly on the Day of the Croatian Parliament in front of a total of 8 MPs, of course the representatives have a very important current job, so they could not participate, probably counting black swans on the Bundec or some others have important obligations and we will discuss one other lakes and these are Plitvice Lakes, since the Living Wall has brought to this High House a proposal to change the spatial plan of the Plitvice Lakes. And so in the introduction of this topic, we can say that unfortunately in Croatia in the past 3 decades, by introducing HDZ, by apologizing, by capitalism according to HDZ, all living things exist, including not only infrastructure, not only human lives, but also nature and all possible living things. We have recently heard during the debate, say, about the state of the Adriatic Sea, that we will soon be left without turtles that have existed in these areas for 150 million years, imagine that figure, 150 million years is something that existed in order to disappear even during HDZ rule. We also heard that in the Adriatic, in one 20, 30 years there will be no more than fish, but no living beings, there will eventually be plastics, this and other junk. We heard that at the time of HDZ rule, water sources were committed to concessions. We have heard that since 1.7.2020, agricultural land will be sold to foreigners, which, for example, in Hungary is even banned by the constitution but not by us. And then we don't need to be surprised that the same power in its vampire greed began to destroy what we have most valuable, and these are national parks that represent not only invaluable Croatian treasures but also world heritage. We have already had several reports that it has been severely polluted, say, the Krka National Park, in fact, people warn about it every day, calculated and repeatedly talked about awarding concessions to the Brijuni. We also know that there are hundreds of illegal bonds in the area of Kornati National Park, dozens of illegal catering facilities, that there are tens of thousands and tens of millions of kunas, that no one is doing anything, and no one is doing anything because simple politics protects those who do illegal activities solely because one part of it ends up in the pockets of their representatives. We should therefore not be surprised that Plitvice Lakes came to order, and Plitvice Lakes came before their apocalypse to ours to say, until their final phase of 2014 when it was adopted very bad we could even say a criminal spatial plan by this high home, and then the government of Zoran Milanovic was in power. At the time, the minister of construction was Anka Mrak-Taritash, the mayor of Lika-Senjski was Mr Milinovic. In short, this spatial plan allows individuals associated with politicians such as Bozo Chulo, the owner of the Partner Bank, to build hotels, apartments and other accommodation facilities within the national park itself, as much as possible within the protected zone of the national park. And since then, several hundred illegal construction deliveries have been issued to this day and it has been possible for these people to, I will explain why I said illegal because they are on a spatial basis, so they allow these people to charge a single night of accommodation from 400 to 500 euros. And to make enormous profits, while at the same time Plitvice Lakes are rapidly not only collapsing, but disappearing, they disappear, and that after they've been produced literally thousands of years. Because this apartmentization and this hotelization put the ecological system of Plitvice Lakes at risk because of the illegal use of water from that area 1, I repeat once again illegally, and 2 in the same water return all possible types of poison, such as detergents, pesticides, feces and many other, many other things that should not be present in the national park at all not in the smallest proportions, let alone in those ratios that have shown the analysis of therefore professional bodies. In the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park, there is no plumbing at all and there is no sewerage at all, and even if there is some possibility of issuing a building permit it cannot be issued until there are no water conditions, and someone obviously in Croatian waters and in the competent ministries throughout the entire time such permits are issued even though he knows it is a criminal act. Moreover, the sewerage means that it is not released directly into the gardens, means in the underground caves in the Plitvice Lakes area, although it is clear and legally prescribed that all underground caves are protected by law and that nothing should be released into them, let alone, as we have a case on Plitvice Lakes, that they are full, up to the top, poured out, poured out with any garbage, feces, etc. And that Plitvice Lakes smell depending on the age of year, more or less. The water analyses I've brought to this assembly that I've already shown to journalists and who unfortunately ended up even in international media have shown that the levels of pollution are up to 800, 900 times higher than would be allowed by law. When I said that construction permits are illegally issued, so these building permits, as I said they don't have water conditions, they can't have them, there's no plumbing, there's no sewerage, you just can't get that license, and you get it. Another building permit cannot be obtained if there is no previous facility in that area. So there used to be 30, 40 such cattlemen, 30, 40 inhabitants who were farming and only on their previous construction could be built upgrades. There's no way that in Plitvice village there used to be 200 residential buildings, but now we have 200, how? By bringing in a couple of bricks, putting these bricks in a square, letting go of a year, two growing it with grass or a chic, going with a plane, recording it, and claiming it's some old building based on which I don't know now, a 3-story hotel. Although it never existed in a catastrus or anywhere, this newly invented old construction is now a prerequisite for building something new. But even then, if it can be built, if it's really old construction, then it should first be offered by law to the national park to buy it, they have the right to the championship. After them the right of the championship has municipalities and after that the right of the championship has a county, only if those 3 factors do not agree to buy or have no money, however, only then can it be sold to the private, but only then, we have a case of selling directly to the private without these 3 steps being informed at all. You know how? Gift contracts. Gift contracts because the gift contract is not considered to be a sale and such gift contracts are given under the table by half a million euros. Half a million euros is given. And this is mostly the principle of seeking Serbian refugees in Serbia, it is mentioned that it went through the SDSS, via the Milorad Pupovac party, and then such a person connects to the buyer in Lika-Senj County, or Croatia, which is either like HDZ and then the SDDS-HDZ coalition works on the principle of "right hand, left pocket" with a gift contract on some real old construction or newly composed old construction is built by these large accommodation facilities. That's how you do it. So it's about a criminal organization connected to the highest peaks of government that goes all the way to the presidential office because you need to see who's coming to the opening of a hotel such as that of a gentleman, that the President of the State is coming, that I don't know, Marko Perkovic Thompson, that General Gotovina is coming, that Mrs. President is coming. Josepha Rimac, Mr. Milinović, you wouldn't believe it, and Mr. Gordan Maras, and they cover it up. They're covering it. So we now have the possibility that Plitvice Lakes will disappear within a few years, and I am not saying that I am, but the hard professional bodies, and UNESCO itself, which in 2017 almost made a decision to move Plitvice Lakes from the World Heritage List because they wrote that Plitvice Lakes will irrevocably, I repeat once again, be irrevocably in a state of destruction. For what? Because Plitvice Lakes depend on micro-organisms called segregators. So sedars can exist, these microorganisms only in crystal clear water. And at least pollution, minimal pollution kills segregators. No sedars, no saddles. No clean water, the Plitvice Lakes are turning into a swamp. Plitvice lakes turn into mosquito and frog habitats, not more what we're used to watching. It's gonna happen and it's gonna happen. Why is that happening? So a couple of friends of Chule and similar newly-compromised tycoon from Serbia to Pantovac could put several tens of thousands of euros in their private pocket. And that's why, that's why, you wouldn't believe that the HDZ itself had disintegrated, that the HDZ itself had cracked into two pieces because of what? Because of these commissions. We watched in the middle of Zagreb in the Square of Victims of the Fascism of the events of the people at the time of Slobodan Milosevic, where trucks of angry HDZs came and shot at their party headquarters, to continue to be allowed to pull on Plitvices as they had pulled on before. So then we had, I don't know, throwouts from parties, and then we had the disbandings of HDZ county organizations, and then we had early elections in Licko-Senj County, so maybe we'll have another early election, and why? Just because the sweating that the HDZ clan, Plenkovicev, Brkicev, Milinovic and I don't know whose paw they're going to hold on to Plitvice Lakes. Why is that? Well, because Plitvice Lakes have a budget of about 300 million kuna. A much bigger budget than Karlovac and Lika-Sen County combined. And it's more worth it to you to be the director of Plitvice Lakes than to be a Lika-Senj Mayor or the Mayor of Karlovac, etc. And that's your point, where money is concerned, where the dio can be stolen, that's where HDZ's gather like a bloodbath. It's their policy, swing their money and they'll all get together, there'll be a rally of the People's Liberation right away. And does the Croatian people end up, do these Plitvices, whether UNESCO and the whole world who admire Plitvices have to suffer such terror? And that's why in the Living Wall, in cooperation with people who live there, and you wouldn't believe it, people on Plitvices are poor, it's amazing, so people living on Plitvice Lakes, Croatian population, Serbian, however, there are poor people. We have therefore made a proposal to amend this spatial plan in a way that any further construction within the protected area is prohibited by law or by spatial plan. And primarily in the area of 1 Plitvice village, 2 regions of Jezerca-Mukinja, then Gornji Babina Potok, Lower Babina Potok, Čicic Krčevina. Among other things, all of those waterfalls you see on Plitvice Lakes depend on streams that flow to the Plitvice Lakes, from these streams, directly from these streams, these savages draw water and the stream level has already fallen by about 70 to 80%, even a little... There is, well, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So let the level of these streams drop a little bit, no more waterfalls, no more waterfalls, no more tourists. No more Plitvice lakes. What's that... Are you gentlemen agents and I believe it is because you have some kind of decent income, ever traveled to national parks in the world? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You in some national parks, the first thing you can miss is the exact prescribed number of tourists, precisely prescribed. If it's 50,000, 50,000 and no one can be 50 001. And in some national parks that are of particular importance, no single tourist should enter. None, zero. Try to visit, say, the caves of Altamir and Lascaux in France. You won't visit them. So he's so careful not to let go but nobody. I don't know, archaeological, ecologically protected zones in Greece, Turkey. There's no way you're gonna find one single brick in that area, find a trash can, anything. And these sites are less valuable, less famous than Plitvice Lakes. Plitvice lakes are water I repeat once again, in such a way that only a few tycoons and politicians benefit from it, people are poor, people on Plitvice Lakes can't sell their products on Plitvices themselves, those who are a little older and there are few older people here, for example. They remember that when you went to Plitvice Lakes you had 60, 70 stands where domestic traditional cakes, strudels and the like were sold. How much today is sold to strudel on Plitvice Lakes? Zero, none because, say, the new director of Plitvice Lakes Mr. Tomislav Kovacevic banned anyone from selling anything on Plitvice Lakes domestically unless it went through his former company, Lika quality from which he allegedly now retired from not being in conflict of interest. And that's what all the people are looking at. And people are disgusted, people whose families have been there for 4.5 generations, watching in front of their eyes that something that we can actually say is theirs, literally theirs, today destroys together with them. What does the Government say about our proposal to amend the law? They say, now you will hear these great wisdoms as each time, you did not respect the procedure, the EU does not approve it, they have their own specific regulations, we will write our own proposal to amend the spatial plan. That's what they used to say when we had the whistler law, they did, they wrote their whistler law, but they wrote it completely different than we suggested and completely different than the whistlers themselves expected. The whistles are very disappointed with this whistle-worshipping law except that normally all companies are shocked, since the law has cost extra. As long as it takes to make this new spatial plan by HDZ, we'll see, they're in power for another year and two and three months. If they did, then they won't even be in power anymore because they've already fallen to a miserable 22% since they're suffocating the Parliament speech and you're boasting about it, every man who has any "salt in the head" is expected to fall to 12% and that's fine. That's okay, that's what we from the Living Wall strongly support but I'm sorry for the Plitvice Lakes because they don't have time to wait, they don't have time to wait. We have to do something today, now if we have any responsibility and not just get away with some bureaucratic procedures, technical obstacles, etc., because it is obvious that in Plitvice Lakes, I repeat once again, it is a matter of criminal action, not only should building inspectors and people dealing with environmental and nature protection, but there should come DORH and USKOK and other judicial bodies simply once and for all stand up for this ultimate abuse. What do we say to the very fact that, for example, a person who issues construction permits on Plitvice Lakes and one single person betrays them, Mr. Dujmovic, who has 32 criminal charges and who has multiple convictions and prison sentences? And that of that same Mr. Dujmovic's husband was appointed director of the Plitvice Lakes? Hello, are you even worried about that? Have you already become so fat that it just doesn't touch you anymore, I don't know, not even a lightning strike to say so wait a minute, so it really doesn't make sense. You need, yes, not 22%, not 12 and 2 to hit your head against the wall and realize that you are the ones responsible for your defeat and not us from the Living Wall. And just keep on going, keep on boasting, be more violent, threaten more, do whatever you want, so maybe it's best if this whole agony ends as soon as possible. Among other things, the Plitvice Lakes allow the transport of a 30-ton truck, 30-ton to be transported, and it says, clear signs are placed around Plitvice Lakes not to go more than 3 tonnes, I watched them with my own eyes. So I was there, and I watched that over those wooden bridges that everybody shakes even when people walk over them, trucks go 30 tons of cargo and then under those roads where trucks are passing, these underground caves and underneath them all these underground caves of sedars, stalactites, stalagmites, I don't know what they've got, they're crumbling and they're falling and they're destroying. What the police do, why don't they stop it, why don't the police take these traffic measures there, why don't they respect traffic signs? If I could go and live in Chakovec on Plitvice Lakes and watch it with my own eyes, so why don't those people who live there and get paid for it do their job right? Why did you sell Mother Earth, why did you sell Mother Nature, why are you so cruel to people and animals, gentlemen of the democracies? Do you believe in God as you declare yourself or is he your only God who is money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142553	You have three replicas, right? One replica? Then just Mr. Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142554	Dear Representative Bunjac, I listened to your lecture and was most impressed by your thought that the HDZ thieves were gathering around the money as a piranha when she smelled blood or felt blood and then told me that when I spoke, when Jandrokovic wouldn't let me speak, when I kept quiet for 8 minutes, said the lady who carried it for the deaf, that she simply didn't gesture with her hands but said when she said when the HDZ thieves spoke, she said she was waving her hands. Here, thank you, cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142555	Mr. Bunzac, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142556	Thank you very much. Representative Pernar, he survived the HDZ of numerous storms, survived the Istanbul Convention, survived I don't know, records in Jasenovac, you'd be in Pantovac, but Plitvice Lakes didn't survive, they couldn't survive, and we simply saw the amazing scenes themselves that were pushed by the members of one and the entire party by the centre of the party, where the buses, di threaten each other, where they were excluded, where they attacked other families, their members, etc., and this shows only the nature of that party. So they don't care about the program, they don't have any Croatian right hands on their hearts, I don't know Starcevic, etc., but their program is who's gonna get the best of it in the budget bag. And when that comes to the agenda, then we can watch what we've been watching, and in the end we'll probably be watching gunfights, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142557	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. And now the government's representative, Mrs. President. State Secretary Dunja Magaš of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning to present the government's opinion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142558	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Plitvice Lakes, which was submitted by the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 1 February 2018 for the following reasons. The law on spatial planning sets out in detail the level of spatial plans, the procedure for the launch, the design and the way in which the spatial plans of all levels are adopted, as well as the spatial plan of the area of specific characteristics, which is mandatory for the area of the national park. Thus, the Law on Spatial Regulation stipulates that the creation of a spatial plan is to begin on the basis of a decision on the development of a spatial plan by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, as prescribed by the amendment of the 4-month Act. This year, according to previous opinions, according to specific laws governing the protection of the environment and nature. It is also prescribed that everything contains a decision to draw up a spatial plan. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the Environmental Protection Act is prescribed that the strategic assessment is mandatory for plans to be adopted at national level from the area of spatial planning, including their amendments and additions. Furthermore, the Environmental Protection Act stipulates that for minor changes and additions of the plans to be adopted at national level in the area of spatial planning it is mandatory to carry out a procedure in which it decides on the need for implementation and strategic assessment. In addition, in accordance with the regulations on the protection of nature, the Ministry of Environment and Energy must carry out a preliminary assessment of the acceptability for the areas of the ecological network and of the main assessment of acceptability for the area of the ecological network for plans prepared or adopted at national, regional, regional level. We also point out that the proposal for the plan in question must carry out a public debate and thus draw attention to the fact that all proposals, opinions and objections can be made within the deadline and in a manner prescribed by the Law on the Spatial Arrangement of All Interested persons and thus by the Society of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Furthermore, it should be noted that at a session held on 5 April last year, the government decided to amend the plan that entered into force on 14 April last year. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is the holder of the production and the Coordinator of the Plan is the Institute for Spatial Development. After a public tender was held, a contract was signed with a professional designer, a plan... Croatia and Zagreb and at the end of August of last year, a preliminary consultation for the procurement of services was completed to develop a strategic study to carry out a strategic assessment of the impact of changes and addition of the plan... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and after the public tender, the highest bidder is authorised. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In October of last year, he developed a professional basis for nature protection for a national couple and is the same as the requirements of public law, one of the basic input data for the development of the plan itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the draft amendments and additions of the plan are under way and other measures have been launched to preserve the area of Plitvice Lakes. The main approach was to address the issue of public water supply and disposal in the area of the national park, the most significant project implemented at the end of last year is to certainly set up a temporary mobile wastewater treatment plant in the village of Rastor capacity 2000 equivalent to the population of this most significant... The measure prevents the current situation and the environmental and nature threats of the national park. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An important project to address disposal in the area of the national park is the European project to build agglomeration water utility infrastructure Plitvice Lakes whose application is expected to begin in the beginning of the third quarter of this year. The total value of the investment is over 300 million kuna without VAT, of which 70% will be financed from the European Cohesion Fund and 30% from national funds. The project plans to address wastewater disposal and treatment systems on two agglomerations, agglomeration of Plitvice Lakes I, the Rakovica system and the Rastovac system and the agglomeration of Plitvice Lakes II, the Korenica system while water supply is resolved separately in a specific project. The project also covers the area of the national park and is being resolved by the disposal and treatment of wastewater from the national park. With regard to water supply, the basis of the recovery and reconstruction of willing citizens in the area of Plitvice Lakes, a programme is under way to reduce losses in the area of Korenica-Plitvica-Rakovica area. Last year, 3 million kuna of 12 million kunas of the total amount of the framework agreement for 2018 and 2019 will be implemented. The Programme will implement the recovery of losses in the public water supply system and the connection of users to the public-supply system, thus ensuring stable water supply in the area of the national park. In 2019, the Korenica water pipeline took over the provision of water services in the area of the national park previously carried out by the public institution of the national park. Regarding the visit to the park, a management plan for the national park was adopted with a plan for the management of visitors and in June 2018 the implementation of a new reservation system for arrival announcements for group visitors with defined time and place of entry as the initial phase of the time and spatial distribution of visitors was started. Since 1.1.2019, the test limits for the number of entrances per entrance and hours have been set, online ticket sales for individual visitors started in early April. During the year, the status of the visiting area will be monitored and the number of tickets adjusted as necessary in order to achieve optimal number of visitors. Since 2015, the public institution of the park has been regularly implementing the procedure for the use of first purchase rights and buying properties within the borders of private owners. Agricultural land and forests have been purchased for active management of protected habitats and building land to reduce construction intensity. We point out that all measures taken are positively assessed both by UNESCO and the Plitvice Lakes NP no longer threatens to list endangered world heritage. Taking into account the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the proposed decision cannot amend the provisions of the spatial plan as this would be contrary to the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Act on the Protection of Nature in the work in which these laws prescribe the procedure and legal institutes relating to the construction and adoption of a spatial plan, the obligation to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment and to assess the acceptability of the ecological network, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142559	Thank you, too. The first replica was requested by Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142560	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. What are Plitvice Lakes, it's clear to us, Plitvice Lakes are river lakes with tectonic predisposition. The Plitvice Lakes area is still on April 8, '49. declared a national park. The law on how such an institution works is clear, what is allowed and what is not allowed? How did it happen and how did the construction happen at the time of Minister Zmajlovic without adequate infrastructure? How is this problem going to happen and you think it can be solved, or that environmental bomb that happened... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142561	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142562	Thank you very much. Well, I think this opening speech answered your question. There is a change in the spatial plan that will redefine the spatial plan's specifics and cover construction. In any case, we and in the legislative section, the Law on Spatial Planning and the Construction Act, which prescribes construction, have introduced additional provisions that would also strengthen and oversee the national park, as well as control over the issue of building permits. What I said about the obligations and which in the jurisdiction of the national park, the management plan, the management plan for the general visitors, are all some of the measures that need to be implemented to improve the situation in Plitvice Lakes, and I think that in these two years from what has been said, the most has been achieved is precisely in that part. Protection of Plitvice Lakes [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Okay. [[Intruder: You can, you can finish the sentence.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142563	Okay. Thank you. You'll get plenty more opportunities. Mr. Bunzak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142564	Dear Secretary of State. So you say 20 times it will be, it will be, so you're using the futur first all the time, and I'd be interested in telling me if there's a deadline, even if there's a framework plan until that spatial plan should be amended by your side and I'm particularly interested in whether it's going to be until the end of this government, so this government ends with its work, let's say by 1.10 next year, if we're broad-handed. Maybe it's over before. So is there any possibility that it will be within that time frame or is simply all your plans, remarks and suggestions and good intentions at least on paper going to have to wait for a new government, here I think that's what interests all of Croatia's citizens, especially those living in the Plitvice Lakes area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142565	Here you go, ma'am. Magash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142566	Thank you very much. The procedure for adopting a spatial plan depends on how long the strategic assessment of the environmental impact plan will take, which will in any case, when completed, provide a framework for how much the spatial plan itself will change. So at this point I can only tell you that what you have proposed today absolutely cannot be adopted without that strategic assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142567	And the third replica, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142568	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. We from HSS, I personally support every effort to protect nature, to leave to generations that come to a healthy environment, and especially when it comes to Plitvice Lakes that are in a certain way branding the Republic of Croatia in attracting tourists and developing tourism in Croatia. We welcome all measures to develop continental tourism, but it always remains what protects these resources from being destroyed. You said, it's a strategic assessment, it's a new spatial plan, it's crucial how existing illegally built objects are put into the system so it doesn't harm nature? It means when a system of drains, a purifier and everything else will be built. That's what we're interested in and it's good that there's a law, but as laws are being implemented on the ground, whether there's going to be increased inspection surveillance, if you have human capacity to put an end to it, it's illegal construction and destruction of Plitvice Lakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142569	- Mrs. Crescent. Magash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142570	Thank you, well-respected parliamentary representative. All I can say is that since I've been in the system of state administration, construction and administrative supervision of a particular area has never been carried out as well as last year in the Plitvice Lakes area. Construction supervision of the construction of all built buildings has been carried out and all buildings and their documentation are listed, if it is defined whether something is legal or illegal. Anything that is illegal by inspection procedure and control of inspection solutions is carried out. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has also carried out administrative supervision of all issued building permits, and the same procedures are under way after the supervision carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142571	Thank you very much. And now, as announced, I'm setting a break by 3:00, when we're going to proceed with the club's position, and then we're going to discuss this point further. Thank you. It's 12.44 p.m. Let us now return to the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on a spatial plan of the area of specific features of Plitvice Lakes. I am now about to open the debate and give my word to the clubs, the first is Mr Tomislav Lipoščak, who will present the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club on this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142573	I would like to thank the Vice President, the representatives of the ministry, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on a spatial plan of the area of special features of the Plitvice Lakes proposed by the Living Wall and the SNAGA Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. We are aware that there is a need to continuously address the shortcomings of especially those related to the threat of natural unity in the area of Plitvice Lakes, due to the escalation of building facilities, and to improve the state of water supply systems and water disposal and treatment systems. The measures currently being taken have also been positively assessed by UNESCO, certain improvements have been made, a strategic study has been carried out that will set out instructions for the development of a spatial plan, inspections have been stepped up, comprehensive supervision and control of the issue of building permits, and the issue of purifiers in the location of Rastovac and many other things has been resolved. The Spatial Planning Act sets out in detail the level of spatial plans, the process of creating spatial plans, the process of drawing up spatial plans, and the way in which the spatial plans of all levels are adopted, as well as the spatial plan of the area of specific features, which is mandatory as a state level plan for the area of the national park. In addition, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning launched a procedure of making, or just a decision to make changes and supplement a spatial plan. Following everything mentioned in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as what we could hear from the presentation of the Government's representatives at the meetings of the Assembly Committees, as well as in the presentation of State Secretary Magash today at the meeting, the HDZ Club will not support the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the decision on the spatial plan of the area of specific features of the NP Plitvice Lakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142574	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn to speak in front of the Living Walls and the SNAGA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142575	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to address HS, but in fact there is only one man here right now with me in the benches other than the chairman, I know that the topic is a spatial plan on Plitvice Lakes, but I want to first point out how the MPs do their job at all or how they don't do it, and on the very day HS, they could at least be here today, unfortunately, they're not. I'd like to say that Plitvice Lakes, but our entire country is also a hostage to HDZ policy, to destruction policy, to pollution policy, in this case, to Plitvice. They did not build a purification system there, i.e. no accompanying communal infrastructure was created to monitor new construction. And what happened? Fecal waters have polluted Plitvices. The current way of managing, or total care for the environment, is the result of HDZ policy. However, in the case of Plitvice, it is a big hunt, as my colleague Bunjac said, HDZ's men slaughtered each other in Licko-Senj County as a pirate around the prey, so simply where the money is, there is HDZ, where the HDZ is there to fight for that money and in this struggle between the two HDZ currents there has been a complete division, literally in half, and the result was a split of HDZ in Lika-Senj County. So HDZ is not only a party that has politically failed in these elections, it is not only a party whose political rating has halved, but also its internal division and formal in Licko-Senj County. I repeat, the conflict was over the money, who will bite most of the cakes among them. Unfortunately, they don't care about the spatial order, they don't care about the protection of the Plitvices themselves, it's a raw and dry struggle over the money of political power and influence. I call on Croatian voters to show that when elections are to support the Living Wall because we want to protect the environment, for example, this proposal to change the plan for the spatial arrangement of Plitvice, we want to protect Plitvice from further illegal construction, and also those quasi-legal ones that should not actually be done, but it is also about some different tricks and only Croatian voters that depend on whether their country or our environment will be protected. I invite you all to come to the next election to go out on them because only your turnout depends on what percentage will be given by a party that destroys our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142576	We're moving on to individual debates, only one colleague came forward, Mr. Sasa Djujic, he's gone, he's losing his right. Do you want anything from Mr. Pernar?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142577	I've said everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142578	You said everything. Would you like to say something on behalf of the government? I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. You can both go. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-30-0.u142579	The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on a spatial plan for the area of specific features of the Plitvice Lakes National Park, is proposed by the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is not accepted to make a decision on the amendments and additions to the decision on a spatial plan of the area of specific features of the Plitvice Lakes National Park, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for, 11 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
