ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143279	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jandroković, honourable MPs and MPs before you is a package of water laws that make up the Final Proposal of the Water Act, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act and the Final Proposal of the Water Services Act in the second reading. As you know, this high house held at session 11, at the 11th session held on 5 April 2019, discussed this water law package and reached conclusions on the adoption of the proposal, all three of those water laws, and all comments and proposals were submitted to the Government as a proposal for a final draft of the law. On this occasion, I thank all those who participated in the debate under these laws, especially those who have made constructive proposals that have contributed to the improvement of these laws in their final form. Respecting most of the remarks and proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Assembly of Representatives and Clubs of Representatives presented in the parliamentary debate, the Ministry of Environment and Energy as an expert holder developed the final draft laws submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament for adoption in the second reading. The final proposal of the Water Act contains all the legal solutions so far for all the issues of the water economy, and the fundamental changes to the applicable Water Act are contained in the fact that the matter of water services is excluded from it and transposed into a special new law, the Water Services Act. At the same time, this law surrounds the transfer of the EU's legal property in the area of water with regard to the directive on groundwater. This Final Proposal of the Water Act and continues to regulate, as well as the applicable Water Act, the legal status of water, water goods and water buildings and water areas, and the adoption of a water management plan and other water protection and water environment management documents. Also, this law fully ensures continuity in water protection as a good of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, which enjoys its special protection in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I stress there is no possibility of privatising a water resource that we deeply believe is a consensus. During the debate on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and in this assembly during the first reading on the proposal of the Water Act, constructive remarks adopted by the applicant were received in the final text of the bill. The most important reasons, the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solution set out in the draft law are the following. In an appropriate manner, the amendment of Article 110 of the Law and so that the exploitation of gravel and sand from renewable beds in waterways is permitted, and the prohibition is prescribed as an exception in order to remove public perception in the general prohibition of exploitation as a rule and a major interference with legal exploitation from the water stream. At the same time, the law allows the exploitation of gravel and sand, especially as it ensures the flow of water flow. Furthermore, a provision has been added to regulate the exceptions to the implementation of the appropriate environmental impact assessment procedure in cases of necessary procedures for the protection and rescue of humans and animals, material and cultural goods and flood relief procedures in cases of an urgent and unscheduled implementation of flood defence measures. A provision related to the obligation of units of regional or regional self-government to take over and maintain irrigation buildings within 36 months of the entry into force of this law has been added. Namely, it will be considered to be the same as their owner after the expiry of that deadline by law took over the maintenance of irrigation buildings and responsibility for management and maintenance. It is added to the provision that the public water goods that make up the area where the water source is for human consumption are managed by a public water service supplier, not by Croatian water that manages all other public water goods. Namely, it is a fenced area with limited access to whose safety and functionality is precisely the public supplier of water services. A provision is specified by which forests as a plantation of public good, in public water goods, lords of Croatian forests, and land under the crops of Croatian water. Because it's nine years old. In the applicable Water Act, it lays down a provision on the possibility of establishing a scientific institution in the area of water, a provision has been added which regulates the establishment of an institution with the right status of a public institution and the legal position of a scientific organisation i.e. The Institute of Water by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the establishment of the Water Institute is to provide scientific support in managed waters in accordance with the water management strategy, the law governing water and the law governing the financing of the water economy and the Institute would also be responsible for monitoring water in the Republic of Croatia. The funds for financing the operations of this institute shall be provided from the financial plan of the Croatian Waters and on the burden of revenue from the water charges. The rules on scientific activities and rules on institutions apply to the Water Institute. The founding rights at the water institute on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are established by the Ministry of Water Economy and Croatian Water. It was also carried out to supplement the interpretation of certain provisions of this Law on the legal nomotechnical meaning, and in accordance with the observations and proposals of the Committee on Law. As regards the final proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Fund Act, this law establishes a link between the obligation to implement European projects, a source of local funding for these projects. For sustainable management of European projects, it is necessary to provide a national, local component which is provided from development fees. A new legislative solution, instead of at the level of individual units of local self-government, establishes the development fee by a decision of a single integrated public water service provider in the service area through its assembly made up of representatives of all local self-government units in the service area. The most important difference between the solution proposed by this Final Law proposal in relation to the first-reading solution arising from the debate in this assembly is the creation of a legal assumption for the introduction of several components of the development fee and, in particular, the common part of the development fee for the whole of the public water supply system, in particular the part of the development fee for certain parts of the public water supply system, which is exclusively used by users from the local self-government unit, and the final solidarity part of the development fee to be charged in the entire service area, and is redistributed to the unit area of local self-government if there is insufficient income from the multi-annual programme and Water Act. In relation to the other provisions of this final bill, there was no change in the first reading. This Final proposal, with the exception of the above, provides for the additional purpose of the water treatment fee in favour of the units of local self-government, 10% of the compensation paid to the local self-government unit will be used to pay the costs incurred in the calculation and collection of the fees. Furthermore, it is prescribed that units of regional or regional self-government as owners of a system of detailed melioration disposal and by means of the Croatian Waters and on the basis of an appropriate contract shall invest in compensations for melioration disposal or other funds from their budget for the maintenance of these buildings. As for the final proposal of the Water Services Act, we can say that this legislative proposal actually reflects the reform character of the entire package of these laws. This final draft of the law retains all the most important provisions that will allow for the planned reform of the water utility sector. In particular, this law will allow the establishment of service areas with a minimum supply of water of 2 million m3 per year, with an exceptional deviation of 10%, integration in the water services sector by joining existing public water service providers into a single supplier in the service area, so that the institutional form of an integrated supplier becomes a company of capital to which local self-government units are established in the service area, while achieving a single water service price in the service area. The first reading details the purpose and purpose of adopting this law, so I will only briefly remind this one of it. We want to strengthen the implementation capacity and investment capacity of public water service suppliers in order to effectively translate planned investments in the water utility sector worth EUR 3.7 billion by 2023. to which we have committed to the Treaty of Accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. The result of these investments will be a significant rise in the standard of providing these services all in favour of citizens and business entities of water users in the Republic of Croatia. It will also ensure that the price of water is socially affordable to consumers within the limits of the economic efficiency of the supplier as a rule up to 3% of the net available household income per year. Access to the core capital of an integrated supplier in all units of local self-government in the service area will be made possible, so that the remaining 73 units in the Republic of Croatia that have so far not been the founders of any public supplier can participate in the assembly of that society, thereby achieving their right to develop through the possibility of EU access with the means of improving and developing water utility infrastructure in this area or in its area, this has not been the case so far. We reiterate the anti-privatisation nature of this law. Namely, the anti-privatisation concept in the water service sector has been retained until 2008, sorry, since 2008. as a strategic definition and water management strategy, and through a legislative framework in the area of water management until today. I must stress the social component of this law, which is reflected in the regulation of the social price of water services, and intensities regarding the protection of consumers of water services, which is an improvement in relation to the existing legislative framework which, in that sense, was not sufficiently detailed and concrete. It should be pointed out that this law also makes progress towards achieving access to all water users for human consumption, even in the case of the existence of a debt for water services by those users. In this respect, we have respected the requirements and the Water Directives on human consumption, which are expected to be adopted during this year and which requires Member States to take measures to improve access to water for human consumption, particularly for vulnerable and marginalised groups, and which belong to all residents who do not yet have access to water from water supply systems, nor have they been provided with regular delivery of medical proper water by alternative means of delivery. In this way, with regard to ensuring access to water for human consumption, the legal framework which constitutes the Law on Islands and this law will be rounded up. In particular, this law prescribes a public delivery obligation to enable the delivery of water of 50 litres per household member per day at the time of planned and unexpected restrictions and suspension of delivery. Special attention should be paid to the vulnerability and social threat of the population. One of the most important aspects of consumer protection is the possibility of paying water services according to real consumption. In this context, this final proposal regulates the rights of property owners in already built-in multiple housing buildings to install individual plumbers if there are technical assumptions. In this way, a number of consumer remarks are being addressed that they are being denied the right to pay for services according to real consumption. This law also regulates the assumptions for the takeover of about 200 local water pipelines into the public water supply system and thus ensures their regular maintenance and provision of water health rules for human consumption in these areas. The final proposal of the Water Services Act is a reform law whose implementation will allow for a thorough restructuring, i.e. the formation and reform of the water services sector. It is therefore quite understandable that he has caused great interest both in the previous proceedings at the working bodies of the Assembly and in the assembly during the first reading. On the proposal, i.e. on the proposal of this law discussed in the Croatian Parliament, a significant number of remarks were received by the working bodies, individual remarks by the representatives and observations made on behalf of representatives clubs, political parties. Many of these remarks were constructive, so the applicant accepted them and incorporated them into the text of the final draft law. The most important differences between the solutions proposed by the Final Proposal for Water Services Law and the solutions set out in the draft law in the first reading are as follows. Under 1st, an exception to the basic criteria for establishing a service area is prescribed, this exception relates to the possibility of establishing a service area according to other criteria and this is an annual supply of water from 800 000 to a million cubic metres, with the fulfilment of additional criteria of affordability, present and future water prices. The aim of that provision is to enable exceptional institutional independence for a small number of medium-sized public suppliers who are currently showing technical and financial strength for possible self-sustainability without at the same time jeopardising reform. The time limit for the implementation of the accession of existing public water service suppliers to a single and public supplier was also extended from 90 days to 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Service Areas Regulation. The applicant accepted the proposals, given that it is a complex accession process preceding certain actions, such as the recasting of public water service suppliers, the transfer of municipal water buildings from local self-government units, the central authorities of the state administration in the company of entrepreneurs and the like. An amendment has also been made allowing for the free integration of public water service providers once they are integrated in accordance with this law. This legal possibility will eventually lead to further integration and the creation of increasingly strong public suppliers covering larger service areas, which will strengthen their implementation, capacity, investment capacity and ultimately have a positive impact on water price affordability. Furthermore, the power to adopt the Internal Design Regulation and the Regulation on the work of a public water service supplier has been amended in such a way that, according to the final proposal of the law, the same administration and not the general assembly of a company, which is in accordance with the company law. The appointment of a single member of the public water service provider's administration has been amended in such a way that it is now selected by a double majority and not by a simple majority by basic capital, all in order to achieve greater democracy in this election. Correction of the time limit for payment of compensation for unlawfully connected to systematic public water supply and disposal from 10 to 5 years ago has been carried out in order to comply with the rules for determining a general limitation period without a basis. On the basis of other constructive proposals from MPs and representatives clubs, the text of this final bill was improved as follows. It is prescribed that a branch cannot be established at the company headquarters in order not to further increase the number of construction units. A more clearly defined provision on the consent of the majority owner of the water service provider for its long-term borrowing, which is given according to the new arrangement in accordance with the rules on the budget rather than the adoption of a borrowing plan under the business plan. A more clearly defined start of use of water services is that specified in the contract signed in the delivery of water services, i.e. that indicated in the work order for accession which must be subsigned by the future user. It is further clarified that the water supply price between the two suppliers does not contain a fixed part as well as water charges since it is the wholesale price of the supply of water. The Council for Water Services shall be given the additional competence to submit indictments and to take infringement orders for infringements in its work and, in order to be effective, to implement the provisions on the jurisdiction of the Council. In a different way, the salaries of the president, vice-president and secretary of the Water Services Council have been arranged as a model for salaries of the same level of officials in the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, given that earlier arrangements to the level of these salaries were prescribed at the level of the ministerial assistants' salaries. This was necessary for the removal of the deputy minister's post. It is amended to determine the position of the capital and the reserve to be entered in the process of attaching or the number of employees. According to the new arrangement, the date is 31 December 2018 instead of 1 January 2019. Following these changes, integration will be carried out on the basis of financial reports on the business of public suppliers per day for 218 years. Finally, the obligation of the Croatian Waters to submit to the Water Services Council, without compensation, all documents relating to the ex ante evaluation of the effectiveness of the business of public water service suppliers, given that the degree of effect of this law will be in the jurisdiction of that body. The surrender must take place within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law. It was also carried out to supplement the interpretation of certain provisions of this law in a legal and nomotechnical sense, in accordance with the observations and proposals of the Committee on Legislatives. Dear MPs and MPs, a package of water laws that make up the Final Proposal of the Water Act, the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the financing of the water economy and the Final Proposal for the Water Services Act before you today present a package of water laws which, by adopting them, would allow the reform of the water-communal sector in the Republic of Croatia, above all in the direction of increasing the absorption force, the final force of our public water service suppliers and, in this context, the opening of space for the next investment cycle in the water-communal sector, which we are ultimately obliged to deal with our citizens and citizens, and all in order to improve public service to them. I believe that the changes made in relation to the first reading or the bill before you were here just over a month ago are going towards improving these legislative proposals both in the first and third laws and I finally believe that today's debate on these three bill proposals will go in the direction of their possible improvement. I am sure we are all aware of the need to bring the water-communal sector to a higher level, given its indicators and long-term functioning. We believe that a reduction in the number of suppliers, their integration, an increase in absorption power in both people and in knowledge and finally and in capital, will allow the water-communal sector to follow this reform, and as a result of the investments expected in the coming period indeed to be an example of other sectors in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143280	Thank you, Minister. We've got 16 replicas, and we'll start with a respected colleague named Curray. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143281	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister, very briefly, only two questions, are first bound by deadlines, I may go with one amendment to make these same deadlines and something different in view of everything that this final bill and changes, about the accession and all the legal things that need to be done to bring the law into force. So we have this thing of six months of deadlines, 90 days, etc., so I'd ask for a little consideration of the longer part. And I'm just left with the question of Article 7(2) where we talked about water consumption as one of the basic criteria, and then we didn't change it in Article 104, I wonder if it's possible for this change to go not to a million cubic metres, but up to 1.5 million I think there would be 4 special water lines if all other assumptions were naturally met and regarding economic sustainability and all those parts about agglomeration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143282	Minister's reply, please. Minister, do you want an answer or something? No, I don't. Then let's go to another replica, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143283	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, during this morning's statement on behalf of the clubs, there is a question about the need to establish a water institute, so I ask if you can, although you are seeing it and I heard in your opening statement, that there are some fundamental reasons why you should further explain the purpose and geneaze of the establishment of the institute itself and in your opinion, and also on the basis of the deadlines prescribed by the Water Services Act itself, what would be the deadline of implementation of this whole law, in your opinion, how long would it take it, to establish new service areas and that is to establish and organise new public suppliers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143284	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143285	Thank you very much for asking, Honorable Representative Bacic. So as far as the deadlines for implementing the law itself are concerned, some optimal period has been one year since the law was passed at different stages. As for the functioning or even the idea of creating a water institute, Croatia is, according to water wealth, 3 countries in Europe. As you know, our water wealth is very abundant, very large, but for the past 28 years we have often come into situations that we have exposed ourselves to criticism that these water wealth in the Republic of Croatia is not managed optimally. Since 2009, there has been a possibility of creating a water institute, there has been an entire series in the Republic of Croatia. As a water institution, as a scientific institution, I hold that an institute like this will justify its function. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143286	Thank you, please just hold on... My fellow Squishy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143287	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, so here's the minister you have significantly deviated from that original proposal of minimum amount that public suppliers should have so that it could form a service area through Article 4(3) you have made this exception where up to 800 000 m3 of water is actually allowed, means for the formation of a service area, so I'm only interested in how many new service areas this is compared to that original proposal, which are the service areas if you can indicate them, I don't think it would be good for the Croatian public to hear this argument here too that it is necessary to form only for medium suppliers and that they show possible technical and financial strength for self-sustainability, so I don't know why that criterion would be applied to smaller suppliers or small suppliers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143288	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143289	So let me first refer to your question, first of all, thank you for asking, let me refer to your question regarding Article 104 800,000 to million m3 as an exception. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia there are suppliers that are good economic, therefore both technical and technical forces and in this context meet the provisions of affordability both present and future, after the realization of agglomeration, then assume first of all, 1.5% of today's net income, so water prices at the annual level, and 3% after the investments themselves. As for the number of these suppliers, the analysis has shown that they can be up to 5 in Croatia, as far as I know, cannot now enter which of them will require such separation. When it comes to the smaller ones, we keep it that way. There shouldn't be a case for legitimate reasons. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143290	Mr. Grmoy's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143291	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, seven days ago, I mean, I've referred you a representative question about the Mostar deposit, where they were found even in a wastewater purifier dangerous poisons, such as propylene. We all know that Neretva comes to Neretva Valley, meaning Metkovic and other places. I've requested an urgent response from you as Minister and Government. Not a word we could hear from you, the citizens blocked this dump in Mostar, nor the city authorities of Mostar provide any information, I ask you what you have done on this issue since the health and life of people, and our people in BiH, our Croats, but also people in the Republic of Croatia, means in the Neretva Valley.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143292	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143293	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy, for your question. By the time you mentioned it, I didn't know about the problem or your representative's question. It will be answered, however, in consultation with Secretary of State Shiljeg I am getting information, given that it is originating in the region, I am getting information that it is transformer oil that is not a solvent in the water, and in this context it is not necessary to spread panic over that pie, and as for our reaction to something that is happening in Mostar, it can, in particular, be yours. We can regain that problem, see what it's really about, ask for some answers, and that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143294	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143295	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. I have a very simple question. So this law defines both construction, maintenance and use of water buildings. On Monday, the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb decided, together with the president, that of 109 acres of the Presidential Court and 30 hectares remain presidents, or state, and the rest goes to the property of the City of Zagreb. There is a retention in that space, which is in use. Do you know about that? Are you going to do something to keep us from doing something crazy? To move the retention from state ownership into the property of the City of Zagreb, then to return from ownership of the City of Zagreb to ownership of the state. It seems to me that the job had to be done a little bit different, and it doesn't seem crazy that it would just be because of the president's wish that one beautiful sunny day she would announce her candidacy, that we were doing some kind of crazy thing, so I'm just wondering if you know anything about it. and are you at least the Minister of State Property Management? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] warned about the facts. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143296	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143297	Dear MPs, Mr. Dark-Taritash, thank you for your question. Therefore, the manager of these retentions are Croatian waters, regardless of whose area is owned around it, and Croatian waters will continue to be responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143298	Here you go, dear Mrssic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143299	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It's a very simple question. How you fit the establishment of the Water Institute with the Government's Conclusion of 2.8.2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions and institutes. How do you explain now the establishment of a new institution, which is within the law, but is never founded or has its director and for whom is this institution established? This is something that is contradictory and completely out of mind, that the Croatian waters are singled out by a very good segment scientifically strong and that you are thereby impoverishing Croatian waters and Mr. Bačić only one note, the Institute is only in law, so there is neither address nor has a director. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143300	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143301	Thank you very much for your question and for your interest in this institute. It is truly commendable to your recognition of the importance of this topic within all three laws. Therefore, all details on the establishment of the Water Institute will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the government's decision from, as stated in February 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies in the Republic of Croatia, two legal entities are abolished at the level of Croatian waters only. This provision is not contradictory, or this establishment is not contradictory. If nothing else, you for the fact that for 10 years there has been an idea in the legal basis of the Republic of Croatia, namely the intention to establish such an institute. I heard your argument earlier, so let me look back on it. If you hold that you can run for head of this institute with your competences, I'd be happy to sign up for the competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143302	Comrade Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143303	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister. This set of laws certainly has the task of improving many water issues, from protection, therefore, water economic activities, waste water, communal, service areas, etc. And that's what the Ministry of the Sea and can do with the help of institutions dealing with these areas, so I'm surprised that there's been such big changes between the first and second readings. Here's specifically, the law on service areas. Have you consulted a group of plumbers and sewers on this matter? We know that they are responsible for these areas, so here I am, particularly interested in whether you have conducted a quality analysis and discussion with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143304	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143305	Your Honor, Professor. Dobrovic, thank you very much for your question, so a group of water and sewers or ministry officials and our professional services are in constant contact with the group of water and sewers on this issue but also with the Association of Cities and municipalities. We know, or we are aware, that this issue, first of all, is the context of the merger of public suppliers in a small number of large service areas, and that is why this contact has been continued, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143306	Now it's my friend Prelec's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143307	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, here I have one specific question, when you spoke about the financing of our projects, the EU projects, we know that we have a domestic component, amongst these domestic components there is a part that refers to local self-government units. Unfortunately, we have small units of local self-government that have a relatively large project and they find it extremely difficult to finance this domestic component of several million kunas. One option, you said yourself, is the development means that there are no resources or large amounts of development resources in this area when there is no sewerage, is there a possibility that development funds from the water part, or from the development of a water network, can be used to finance projects from the sewerage? If not, what other option exists for these small units of local self-government, can we, through HBOR, by some joint action of the ministry, provide a cheap source of credit with a favourable interest so that these funds can be financed?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143308	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143309	Your Honor, I thank you for your question. The answer is yes, that's exactly why we went this way. So the development fees as a second moment, which as such will be through the application of this law in a somewhat broader form, will enable exactly that and that is the intensity of the law, I may not have been overly emphasising this detail today but I am in the first reading. So the idea is that small ones who are not strong enough to make investments that would allow for better public service in their area, to join large ones, and in this way actually get into their financial strength. So exactly in that direction goes the application of this law, of course under the assumption of rounding which is the assumption of all conjecture and with all the problems that this rounding n-field in application will bear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143310	Comrade Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143311	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. My question is similarly related to the development fee, the supplier may choose whether to introduce at equal or different heights in the service area unless the JLS decide otherwise, so to request that it be charged at different heights, in which case it is charged separately, jointly, in a separate part of the solidarity of the development fee. Now I'm wondering if it can happen that the wealthy units of local self-government decide that they will pay very little, minimally, given that this is intended for these weaker-developed units of local self-government, will there be any effect of that development fee in the solidarity work at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143312	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143313	Therefore, given the division of the development fee, respected counterpart Križanić, the rich units of local self-government are higher than the amount of investment in infrastructure that occurred in some past period when it was brought to a certain level, it can determine that this particular part of the development fee will be slightly less paid because for that unit of local self-government, however, this is not necessary when we talk about these common components, those as such are determined at the level of the public supplier and related to all units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143314	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143315	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you recognized Article 110. The law on water that an explicit ban is not good and that it contributes to self-stop and economic flow as well as cleaning opportunities. If we took another step in the follow-up to Article 2 and Article 3 in which we would clearly define and prevent what is called the protection of citizens from floods, their lives, it would be very good. I'm going to try to amend that part so that our rivers can finally recover from all the clusters that have come to their currents over the past 10 years and prevent the absorption of the rainwaters in the most part and are the cause of the flood effects that are happening, so let's be reasonable, let's take another step in the progress of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143316	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143317	Dear Djakic, thank you very much for your suggestion, or comment. So, the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes these 3 laws and you refer to the Water Law, I suppose, and also to Article 110, it will accept any proposal that goes towards improving the legal base and allowing for the supposed passing of waterways on one side, but at the same time we have to and watch out and that is what it cannot give up in any way is that there is no derrogation of European directives and rules on this matter, so we expect an amendment and we will be very happy to think about it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143318	I would like to thank the esteemed Minister Coric. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143319	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, this law, three laws, with all the benefits you state, the resolution of certain water service areas and everything else, but this law does not solve what is crucial and what is most important, there is no protection of the karst area and that is a key problem. We are today the only thing we get in DOT, it's CGO Lečevica in the middle of the karst area. We see that we have problems in Split with water supply, at least 3 times a month when it rains in Split does not have 7-8 days of water, it is a key problem. You, instead of protecting the karst area, are you donating every drop of dirt into the country, in Podinar, in the Dalmatian Zagora, Skradin, you donate to us the Waste Management Centre in the srid of the Dalmatian Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143320	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Minister Coric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143321	Dear Mr. Bully, thank you for your comment that has nothing to do with these three laws, but we didn't expect it. We don't donate anything to you because I personally would never donate anything to you, except silence on your questions that are generally not related to the context of the discussions being conducted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143322	Thank you. My dear fellow minister, I would ask you nicely not to disprove fellow MPs in your answer, if you have nothing to answer, then you do not have to answer. Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague of the Grmoi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143323	Dear Vice President, therefore, the minister insulted his colleague Bulja, and it certainly has to do with where the Waste Management Centre is being built, means on which ground and how it will affect the water, it has nothing to do with this law and there was no need to insult his colleague Bulja. And also to the question I asked, the minister reacted completely inappropriately when he said the government of the Republic of Croatia cannot take steps towards the Federation and ask for answers to these questions And our people's health is on Wednesday. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143324	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Please, in the future when you call on the Rules of Procedure, then tell me which article was injured, so you didn't say it at the beginning, I warned Mr. Minister and I don't think there was a need for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't please continue to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143325	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ministers, caves in, breach of Rules of Procedure 238. Art., inlet pits and this donation of yours that you give us Center for the Management of Lečevica Waste, the people will oppose it believe me if water is all we have, and you know it, only what you are embarrassingly insulting and doing for interesting lobbies is otherwise If you were working, you'd be protecting your interests. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] People. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143326	Hey, buddy Bull. So you called in an article. 238, Art. In 238, he spoke of MPs and their behaviour, not the promoters, so I think that also as he was the answer and his colleagues Grumoji had no need for your violation of the Rules of Procedure, I do not think that he was hurt and in the future please stay away from the abuse of the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143327	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the motions of the law and the intensity to circle the water lines or to create a more efficient system is something that no one can be against. What bothers me a little is that the Croatian government is not thinking that water is a fundamental human right and that the laws should be regulated no. 1. that everyone has the possibility of supplying water to the Republic of Croatia and No. 2. that units of local self-government which are not active enough and do not do their job, have monitoring and certain sanctions from state level. What exactly am I talking about? In Zagreb, 3000 km of pipe loses 49% of the water that enters the system annually. So in Zagreb, we throw two hundred, 50 million kunas of water and money into the wind because of the lack of city administration Which is why the ministry never responds to these inefficient [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Maras]] non-economical, large systems in the City of Zagreb [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]] Thank you very much. [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143328	I would kindly ask you to stick to the time envisaged, thank you very much, but please stick to the time foreseen for the replica. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143329	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras, for your questions. So, as for the provision of some minimum amount of water to our citizens, it is guaranteed by the Water Services Act, it seems to me to be an art. 41. where it is clearly indicated about 50 liters per household member per day. As regards the penalization that you mentioned over units of local self-government who are unconsciously performing their functions, it is in the domain of the Water Services Council, therefore, and today is prescribed as such, as an independent body. What should be indicated, and given the example that you mentioned, and these are huge water losses on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, is that this is a matter of good part and very old infrastructure, so we are talking about functioning through the last 50 or 60 years, not the last 5, right, let's keep that in mind in most of the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143330	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next, please, Mr. Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143331	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I would ask you on behalf of the Club of the Most Independent Lists for a 10-minute recess to consult on a rather inappropriate response from the Minister to the question of colleagues of Greece about the occurrence of pollution that occurred in the Neretva Basin. Namely, the fact that this pyral, we say ascarel or polychlorinated biphenyls and trafo oil, does not like water, does not melt in water, it does not mean anything special, it is an extremely toxic substance which has been massively used and which is a very serious thing, we need to respond to this phenomenon of pollution and it would be much more appropriate for the minister to react to this news in a way that detects the state of the problem, the extent, to see what can be done because the environment does not know the limits. The fact that this is happening a few miles upstream does not really mean anything, namely the responsibility of today's policy should include caring for cross-border pollution, or pollution. Well, Minister, please, I know you're other professions, but you can't look down on news like this. So I ask you for all due respect for these problems and proper response, so these are our common problems, our common problem, and it's looking for a common answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143332	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 11.20 minutes STANTING at 11.10 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:16 AM]] Next replica, respected colleague Martin Baricevic. Here's my colleague Baričević. Comrade Baricevic, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143334	Here's the vice president. I thank you. I'm sorry I didn't understand it was my turn. Namely, I welcome these laws that regulate this essential material for all residents in the Republic of Croatia and mainly for those parts of the settlement located in the rural area where they will, according to everything, decide, participate in important things such as water supply. I did not understand from these laws whether the local self-government unit in which the source is located had the possibility of a certain compensation for what I hold fair. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143335	Thank you. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143336	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your question. So this set of laws does not define exactly the subject you're talking about, but it is important to point out that the local self-government unit at which the source of water for human consumption is located means it has the right to do so first regularly about building a municipal infrastructure for that purpose. So, the state of the Republic of Croatia means through regular Croatian Waters and through EU funds within the framework of the Competitiveness and Cohesion of the Operational Programme, it builds the infrastructure it teaches to own that local self-government unit to manage its municipal enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143337	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State I have a question about the city of Chabra, so do you know the situation there since these people of the town of Chabra have been drinking broken water for weeks and months. So, I know you're going to say that this is a matter of county and city, but it is also the responsibility of the Croatian Institute for Public Health who has therefore made the decision by examining water that this water is invalid for drinking, but has not actually implemented precautions as to whether people drink that water or not. So, I think that there is a shared responsibility for both the county and the city and the state authorities themselves, given that the Croatian Institute of Public Health and what you think to do about the water in the town of Chabra.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143339	Thank you. Secretary of State Silek's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143340	The representative also responds in the sense that the current problem is not directly related to this set of laws, so the health regularity of the drinking water is in the jurisdiction of the drinking water Regulation which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143341	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like to ask some questions because there are simply some misunderstandings. What about the newly formed large water surfaces where the large seines are, etc., whose jurisdiction is that, who's taking care of it? Because if we don't make that clear, we have a potential environmental bomb in the future. The second thing, water protection areas, so there are very high, very strict regimes and as far as housing and economic activity are concerned, anything. I think simply because of the people living in the area, if there is an impermeable sewerage and all other conditions should be relaxed as well as the spread of housing for the needs of children, as well as the pursuit of certain economic activities. And I'm glad that you've put infrastructure, water capture into the law if the utility company or the supply company accidentally goes into bankruptcy that it can't be the subject of bankruptcy, and I think it just needs to be pointed out. Because we practically protect the wealth of the Republic of Croatia by law. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143343	... a colleague of Shucker's. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your question. So your question is referred to artificial water bodies conditionally, artificial water bodies that are not themselves in the water economy function or are not aquatic in themselves and are competent, and are in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit. So they're not directly, because they're not part of the water supply, and they're not the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143345	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. She's not present. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Drazen Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143346	Dear Vice President, fellow Members of Parliament, no colleagues, dear secretary of state with assistants, I welcome you all together. This package of laws, as we refer to it on waters containing the Water Act, the Water Economy Financing Act and the Water Service Act, has been implemented, has experienced some corrections between the first and second readings, because the Minister and his associates have adopted opinions from individual groups which, working groups and committees and as parliamentary representatives, so that one of the essential amendments to the Water Law, on waters where the regulation is introduced, the regulated provisions on the exploitation of gravel and sand where the provision has been re-formed so that the exploitation of gravel and sand is now allowed as a rule, is prohibited as an exception, this removes public perception of the general ban on exploitation as a rule of legal exploitation from water streams, and just the opposite allows the exploitation of gravel of gravel and sand, in particular where the flow of water flow profiles is ensured. For this purpose, exceptions are prescribed from the application of an appropriate environmental impact assessment or an assessment of the acceptability for the ecological network according to specific rules in the procedure and the space represented by the exploitation of gravel and sand. This is extraordinary, this provision is useful since we know that in all more or less counties there are construction works on agglomeration or construction of sewerage where there is a large amount of consumption of replacement material, sand and gravel, and mostly so far sand and gravel has been imported from neighbouring republics, so that, neighbouring countries, excuse us, so we will now have a chance and the situation will be able to, so in certain areas in agreement... The permit of the ministry vadit sand and gravel and thus activate its construction operation of the transport company and can normally benefit Croatia's water, ministry and state. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also very important that this law, an article on the establishment of a water institute, legal possibility for the establishment of scientific institutes in the area of water is now transformed into an imperial provision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established an institution in the area of water with the legal status of the scientific organisation of the Water Institute. The Institute is established to provide scientific support to water and institute management, conduct monitoring and laboratory tasks for monitoring purposes, which has been taken over from the business of Croatian Waters as a consequence of incomplete... The European Commission on Monitoring. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shall draw up expert bases for the development of a water management strategy, a water management plan, a scientific study basis for water management purposes, other scientific research in the field of water management and other tasks in accordance with the Regulation and its status. The funding and operations of the Water Institute shall be provided from the financial plan of the Croatian Waters on the burden of revenue from water charges. The other comments remained, mostly nomotechnical corrections, minor changes. As far as the Water Economy Financing Act is concerned, there is an art. 10. Very important as a result of the discussion of MPs in HS in first reading has been amended. 58th basic text of the law. The public water service provider may choose whether to introduce the development fee at the same height or at different heights in the service area. However, there is no possibility of this choice if one or more units of local self-government in writing and reasonably demonstrates an initiative to introduce compensation at different heights in the service area. In that case, the compensation must be introduced in 3 parts with 3 components, and so on, a common part of the development fee for the whole public water supply system or public sewage system, freeway pipelines, pumping stations and waste water treatment devices, water conditioning devices for human consumption serving users in the whole service area or in the bulk of the service area. A specific part of the development fee for certain parts of the public water supply system or public disposal system exclusively used by users in the area of a specific unit of local self-government and a solid part of the development fee charged throughout the service area, which is redistributed to the local self-government units if there is insufficient income from its area for the settlement of commitments under the multiannual water construction programme of the Water Act. It is also important to stress that these first and third terms, means a common part of the development fee and a solid part of the development fee can be combined and used to raise the quality of certain parts of the water supply, we are now coming to this law which is very important, about water services where we talk about how the water pipelines will be united, and we have a struggle over what largely regulated water supply is being taken over and rebelled so that they may not take over the small ones that they consider may not be arranged and complex as to how they are or have fewer which are well complex and arranged, and should be taken over by the larger water lines that may have difficulties and problems, however, through these fees, development and all, informing the institutional waters, can be taken up to the same level of water supply and water supply. 2009 The Water Act was adopted by which a decision was taken to get rid of all activities that were not related to water supply and disposal, and then we had about 136 plumbings to make it until 2019. come into the situation that we have over 200 water lines, so I support and fully welcome this Water Service Act and the service area where the number of water lines will be reduced because all of these pipelines have been required since 2009. Furthermore, to have technical training, professional and human skills, which was really impossible to provide so many technical resources and so many quality qualified people, and thus by this unification, by rounding up, we will achieve that we will get quality water lines that, meaning they will be able to run their programmes and projects towards Europe, etc. which we like to say, agglomerations, where it is visible for agglomeration that we need to have 3 groups or 3 groups of people, one group that can run programs and projects, one group that these projects, when they run and accept, realize and implement, and then then you need to have a third group of people who have to be trained professionally to take all these objects into management, management and use later. This article, paragraph 13, is prescribed an exception to the basic criteria for establishing a service area, this exception refers to the possibility of establishing a service area is according to other criteria, which are annual water deliveries, from 800,000 to a million cubic metres of water meet the affordability criteria of the current up to 1.5% of the net annual household income. Here, it's in the shortest lines, changes mean... The HDZ Club will support these three laws. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143347	I thank my esteemed colleague Milinkovic. Next debate on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Representatives Club, dear colleague Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. During the discussion of these laws in the first reading, we pointed to several topics that we believe are important and that should be taken into account before these laws are passed. One of them took note of the expertise of individual ministry employees and their knowledge of the opportunity on the ground to listen a little more to the profession on the ground when drawing up the bill and to respect their opinions and suggestions. I believe that we all agree that one of Croatia's greatest treasures is its diversity. The combination of this diversity makes it so beautiful and unique but because of this diversity each region has its own specificities; landscape, traditional, cultural and infrastructureal especially when this infrastructure is part of a more complex system and we agree that the water and sewerage system is certainly a complex system. And it should be welcomed that after many years, it has decided to approach the problem of such more complex systems. However, because of the diversity mentioned above, we believe that this should be done taking into account the whole picture or specificity of each particular region. We therefore believe that the short deadlines for implementation of the law, although they have been extended for 3 months since the debate in the first reading, are not realistic for some areas of Croatia. They may be especially if there are several municipalities that have had one smaller public water supply company in their area so far and will now join another one. In Istria, however, we have 10 cities and 31 municipalities with a regulated public water supply system through three companies, one of which is a plumbing and a sewerage and two water lines. Then several companies that almost every city has for disposal and also a specific system of drain management in small settlements through the company Istrian water protection system. All these companies have been through their own resources for decades, which through special compensation paid by the citizens of Istria, which in cooperation with Croatian waters and resort ministries, has built through European funds to date a system that is in the water supply section among those with the lowest losses in the system in the Republic of Croatia and in the construction of a wastewater disposal system far ahead of many parts of our country. We are talking about an area where needs are increasingly due to the constant growth of tourism, which is due to the positive growth of the population. It should be said that the system was built almost entirely in the rural part of Istria where, without the famous Istrian solidarity of those greater and richer by the sea, the municipalities in the rural part could certainly not do so themselves. So it could've happened by now if it was the will. But let us put all this aside and conclude on this first topic that the deadline for implementation of the law for larger and more complex systems such as those mentioned in Istria should be longer because the whole system of public suppliers could enter the area of criminal liability if they are shorter in the opposite deadlines. We hope that the Proposer will consider these proposals because we are sure that there are even more similar examples like ours in Istria and that this will allow for a more quality, more efficient and rational solution. The period extension model may also be prescribed by the minimum number of suppliers so far, both water supply and disposal, by the number of units of local self-government in the area concerned or by a combination thereof. However, I repeat, it is not the same to bring two small enterprises together in a technically unrequested area or to bring together several large ones in a very demanding area. Another thing that is very important to us in Istria for operational reasons but also because of the fact that the goal is to attract as much funding from eu funds as possible and to continue to build as high-quality systems as possible is that it will be with ongoing projects and those who are under construction and investment holders are existing public companies that should be united into newly formed ones. What with those projects for which existing companies already have valid building and location permits. And the last topic in this presentation is the one we talked about in front of the IDS Club about in front of this speaker and in public, which is the future of water resources and water services in the Republic of Croatia. Faring important decisions from local to national level, centralisation of the system to manage it easier, always raises suspicion, although the proponent from day one points out that these proposals are anti-privatisation laws. Even though we put that suspicion aside for a moment, and if we try to think in a way that the proposer's intention was good, correct, with a view to regulating the system without using our own demagogue and politics, we are obliged to warn ourselves of certain things both for our own sakes and for those whose important, natural resources of our country we leave behind, which is drinking water as a fundamental human right. Dear colleagues and colleagues of Croatia have so far not specifically protected or guaranteed the right of citizens to drink as a human right. However, as we witness the privatisation of natural resources in the world, there is a legitimate concern that drinking water as the most important Croatian natural resource could be found under the pressure of international companies that see drinking water primarily as a source of income and large profits due to the decline of the available amount of drinking water in the world and all due to the growth of the world's population and climate change. For these reasons, some countries are such as In 2016, Slovenia has already changed its constitution to guarantee its citizens the right to drink water as a public good and awareness of the need to protect drinking water appears more and more in the Republic of Croatia. Although the water in Croatia is generally good and as such cannot be privatised, it should be taken into account that the Water Act distinguishes the notion of water from the concept of water goods. For example, water goods. they include the troughs of surface waters and legal and natural persons on them can exercise the right to rent, rent, service and build for their economic or personal needs and thus make access to drinking water more difficult. In addition, through the ownership of companies that have concessions on water extraction, situations are possible where water stations and other water resources could come under the management of companies that would not care about water protection as good under the special protection of the state, nor about the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the waters along the sea, seashore, islands, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal life have special protection of the state, but the way in which they are used is left to legal regulation. For this reason, there is a need to raise the protection of drinking water to a higher level than is now prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as only the introduction of such a provision in the Constitution would ensure that the laws cannot be changed due to various corporate or political pressures, and to the harm of citizens and their access to drinking water. The recommendations of the World Health Organization are about 70 litres per day of drinking water for drinks, and we believe that the relevant provision on this should also be contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in such a way that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be guaranteed by the Constitution that this quantity will be guaranteed at the most affordable price. For the above reasons, we from the IDS invite all parties and MPs and MPs to initiate the process of amending the Republic Constitution to create a solid foundation and sustainability in water resource management and propose that a new article be introduced in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, along with the procedure laid down, which will define that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia exercise their right to drink water as one of the fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143349	I thank my colleague, Daus. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representative club, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Associates and colleagues, on behalf of the club in the first reading, we see that between the first and second readings there have been some improvements and amendments to the law, we do not have any specific objections to the Water Act and the Water Services Act, the Water Economy Financing Act, except that we believe that a controlled seine should really be made possible for the purpose of and deepening the water flow and so to say the exploitation of some of the raw materials that we have, which we buy from other countries, because the gravel water carries naturally on other shores then we import it into Croatia. However, the main proposal that I made on behalf of the club in the first reading referred to the Water Services Act where we asked for a solution to the second reading, to address the question of possible public suppliers in distribution areas which do not deliver those quantities of water that are now between two readings and laid down in Article 104 where it is stated that a service area or public supplier can be established for, which delivers between 800,000 and 1,000 m3 of water. In Croatia, 86% of the population is connected to the water supply network, 94% have the possibility of a connection. But as a colleague from the IDS said earlier, Croatia is not the same, it is different, we should look at specificities. And while the average is like this, while on average only 6% of the population does not have the possibility of connecting to a distribution water supply network in some areas, that percentage goes up to 30%. For example, for example, I cite the distribution area of Križevci, just as an example, which currently has a problem with about 10,000 inhabitants who do not have the possibility of water connection, and through a series of different legislative regulations, provisions, regulations and conditions of various competitions were not allowed to build a network from some funds because we could not even report to the competition, we were over 10,000 inhabitants and we could not apply to the competition of regional development, later on to some other competitions and the network was not built. The financial resources of the budget were not sufficient, as they are now sufficient when this new fiscal decentralisation law has been adopted, which has been in force since 1.1.2018 and can be done significantly more. Our request was to provide for the possibility of some time period, let's say up to 3 years to build a network of projections of these quantities of water and to allow some temporary service area for that time until it is built, under all those conditions that all distributors must have. And we've given such an amendment. As I said in my first reading, the condition for the adoption of the final bill would be to accept such a proposal, i.e. now to accept the amendments, and so I repeat now. It's not right for some people to be made impossible, not to be allowed to develop and to be punished again. I'm not saying that distributors will not join together, probably and will, they will find an economic calculation, but justice must be present in this part, and we can't look at everything on the basis of 6% of the average, because not 6% of the average has those who have 30% of the undeveloped network and can build it over 3 years because there are now significant European funds available, now there are considerable budget funds available although according to these new provisions, it is said that it could no longer be built, I don't know how it will go, how it will be built, how citizens can already pay it, but okay, let's let it go. So, we have given the amendment, if the amendment is adopted, in this form or similar form, we will vote in favour of the law, unless it is adopted, we will not support this bill. These other two, yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143351	Thank you, colleague Hrg. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the debate will be shared by a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrović and counterpart Panenić, please welcome colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143352	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, I welcome the representative of the ministry, Secretary of State and his colleague, co-worker and, of course, all fellow Members of Parliament. So a set of water laws in the second reading, I have stated in the reply to the Minister that Croatia's heritage is a very long tradition of water and water wealth management, I think 2 years ago it was celebrated 140 years ago with organised water management in Croatia and some of the oldest waterways have such large round figures of water supply service, which is actually a great wealth and our waters are quite well organized, there are groups, associations where they naturally exchange experiences, problems, solutions and very good use of that value, that power, that wealth and institutional even it is easier to communicate with them in changing these laws. The minister said that these communications are constantly being guided, but I must say immediately that we have some major changes between the first and second readings and my information is not allcommunicated, so here I am showing that the damage that this does not seem to be done, that there has been no effort and time for it to be recommunicated and that this proposal is improved, to determine more quality and ultimately stand behind it, so I don't know whether this association is behind this second proposal or not. I will touch on a few questions, so one of the news in the Water Act is the Water Institute, I personally believe that this is even a good idea, so the Institute for Water and Water Problem in Croatia deserves that we have one such institute, but what is not good is that it comes to that conclusion and that implementation between the two readings, without any special announcements, discussions, so it was not in the e-consultation. It's not good, so I'm afraid that the motives of others, not strategic thinking, are an organised approach that repairs the system because I don't know, things can come to people's minds when such things are done that it's not simply looking for a solution for some unexplained personnel, solutions for human affairs in politics, which would be a great shame, so I hope that's not the case. And of course, it explains that this law goes after it to satisfy the government's conclusion of August 2018 and it's actually talking about a reduction, 2 or 3 institutions being removed, hydrotechnically but it's a new one, so it's kind of funny to read. The other thing I'd like to say is termology, so this law, like other environmental laws, is that there's confusion in termological terms, so we don't use an existing, entrenched Croatian lexic that deals with the environment, and that's what teachers have written about, and I'm going to mention Professor Em here. Kaštelan Macan, and I think I gave her the review in my own time, is not present here, ministerial assistants, to make sure that the preparation of the following laws respects the fact that the Croatian language professionally distinguishes "pollution" from "pollution". So just as there is halfition and contamination, we in Croatia have "pollution" and "pollution"; however, we are persistently using one word for both meanings, so there are simply confusing things and that's very bad because our students when they take literature, they read and look for definitions quite often in law and then we have problems at the university to say and you know in our law it's a real shame, so it's kind of a mutilation of Croatian language, so I'd like it to stop, or at least show that something is going to be done on this issue. Furthermore, the protection of groundwater is mentioned as an important task, so of course we have a set of these laws to worry about the state of water, water is an exceptional wealth, so it is a renewable resource, Croatia is rich, I think that per capita it is 23 000 m3 yearly renewable water resource, it is a lot and we are among the first in Europe, we are not the first but we are up high and of course we should take adequate care of it. But when we talk about underground waters, then we need to know that we have a large part of the territory where it is both the karst underworld and, let's say, this law doesn't do anything at all, especially apostrophe, as such, which is very bad, because the karst area is particularly sensitive because of its exceptional permeability and because it sometimes hides pollution, so here we are, who knows the state of water supply with the Adriatic, where there are beautiful large karst springs that are practically very good at being generous for now. So from above, I don't know, from Zvir, the rivers and the bottom of Velebit there are plenty of them, I don't know, Zadar, so Jadro, at the end of the spring down on Ombla, so these are all great karst springs which are seen to be the quality of that water that is normally hydrologically clear, so you can drink it de facto without any treatment. However, it is not just a regular condition, every rain corrupts the quality of water and then requires water processing, clearing, microbiology problem, but also other pollutions, which occur here, and this is the result of poor concern for karst hinterland. And unfortunately, I don't see any particular concern in this law. I will now draw you attention to the fact that the care of the karst underworld comes down to the Regulation establishing a zone for the sanitary protection of springs where there are areas of sanitary protection for karst underground and they are defined in 4 categories and you will surely remember the story of the confirmation or ban building of Lečevica, the center famous for the management of waste in intact junk up through Kozjak, which is an absolutely wrong location, I am now saying so, but there are hydrogeologists who have warned about where it all came down to how many days will find color, so the entry of paints, trassers etc. And now we're waiting for if it's within 24 hours, then absolutely not one day to 10 days, either, but like this, up to 50 days, that's over 50 days no problem. But what's this about? Well, if he'll be here in 1, 2, 10 or 100 days, it doesn't matter. The pollution will come. So, a plum through Kozjak, karsts, it's not impermeable soil like on the south side of Kozjak, it's a permeable karst soil and we're definitely going to have problems with every pollution that comes into that area, and so on. A clean environment centre that absolutely does not have any emissions, and there are so many tons of garbage going there with all these rains that can occur in an extremely short time and extreme intensity, there will be no problems, all kinds of experts and projectors argue. The same was claimed by Marišcina, a center above the river, that there would be no problems, so it certainly was. So here's what I'm showing one dissatisfaction with is that we don't care enough about the misdemeanor and it certainly can't be seen and read out of this law, and now I'm going to leave time for the rest of this to look back on, my colleague Panenic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143353	I thank my colleague Dobrović. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143354	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, thank you very much, colleague Dobrović. Of course, I would also look at one about just this initiative, the service areas as such is not a newspaper or something this government has designed, we see that this is an initiative that has been recognized before, the SDP has been trying to do it in its mandate, HDZ has not supported, now it looks like it should come to a reverse situation, HDZ will, in its own way, enter it, but we forget one key thing, and that is that we are going here from talks on the water sector that has always been treated as one, we can say, luxuriously where the need for healthy, drinking water has never questioned the price of service. We always talk about it, we want water that's right, quality, that we don't have an affair like we saw, it's also in the area of the wine water, the affair and criminal applications. It appears somewhere further in the reports of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, you have indications of how much these gaps occur with all significant investments, along with significant investments that occur, we cough. It happens to us that we're actually going back, the quality of a waternet somewhere, the leaks have increased, so it's recorded over 70%, which worries somewhere. The waist will agree that about 30% is something common and with a good investment intensity, it's hard sometimes to cut below it, but we still have a big break. These service areas just show the state of the small plumbing. I've been listening here to initiatives and colleagues who, probably if asked them, would say what we're going to do in the next 50 years, for some partial interest. But a case of smaller water lines, if we look at the affairs that connected to some significantly larger water lines, it must be a lot harder. Many pipelines now require significant investments, and investments needed in part can be provided by funding from some grants, either from the state budget or through, recently through EU-funded agglomerations, but the other part needs to be collected from the population. And exactly the intensity that the constant increase in that fee is used to achieve it is correct, but then the question of the efficiency of the entire system is also raised. We can't afford every small urban center to have a plumbing and on the basis of which they'll say yes, but we've invested a lot, we've invested a lot, we're going to charge a lot of money now, so we can survive to be a director, accounting, and a lot of other services that monitor every such plumbing. It is also said here that without professional people and professional people are not only directors who need to know a lot, professional people are those who work on water treatment, who work on discharges, who work on such things, and it is impossible in these conditions today that we have neither the professional frame at that level nor we can ensure that it meets the quality standards that we want to achieve permanently. And in that part, I will commend the ministry and commend all those who strive to accept it that way. But what we need to consider is that by adopting only this kind of regulation, it won't solve a key problem, which is that rationalising the entire system must be an objective, economic category, that we can't just look at the need for water, for human consumption, something that is the necessity that we need to pay more. In the number of analysis of the problems that have been happening through, in some water supply companies, it's not just a matter of volume for investment, if it were the only problem, believe me, we'd be in great shape, but that the costs of doing business are greater than the revenues they make. If revenues were to increase, they would be transferred to the population then there would be significant differences where large water supply companies would still have lower prices than they have lower prices. And here we have to answer that question, so we have to ensure integration but this law will not solve the rationalisation of the business which is clearly the problem of the entire water system and the investment that is being taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143355	I thank my colleague Panenic. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143356	Thank you, esteemed chairman of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues, state secretaries with associates. Here's the area of water services is one of the most important areas of public interest. We need to protect the water, it's undeniable, and it's actually a national interest, not just water, but air, soil, water, that's what we have. Letting water on the pipe and drinking that tap water is not given to God everywhere in Europe or in the world, and we ourselves are not aware of how mild it is. Today/morning, water will probably be more important than gold. But did we, the question is, have we protected our waters enough? I don't think we'll ever protect enough and the law will never be good enough to really regulate everything, either. I agree that he's very good, much better than he was before, because it's a great honor for all those who participated in the making of this law. But clearly, here we are, and I'm going to explain a little bit now how it started. Namely, the SDP government developed a draft water service law that passed a consultation with the interested public in 2015, a public debate. However, the bill was not sent to the government of the Republic of Croatia to disband the Republic of Croatia. And a decision was made on the date of the 2015 parliamentary elections. So we were absolutely involved in this law, created. The Government of the Republic of Croatia then also adopted the Service Areas Regulation, which defined 20 service areas in the Republic of Croatia. That was such a trend, but here's what's going on today, we'll see. The Regulation and the bill were adopted on the basis of several studies and projections for the Republic of Croatia co-financed by the World Bank. The existing models from Germany, France, England, Scotland, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria have also been studied and a model was found to fit Croatia's specificities most. This law is a reform law, but the HDZ government, I'm sorry, but it's four years late in passing this law since they had a draft bill ready. And it is also less reformative than that of the SDP government because it has adopted a regulation on service areas from the defined 20 service areas as we have proposed. The HDZ Government will abolish this regulation and the new one should bring them in within the time limit, we will see when and when it has not defined by the number of service areas, nor by which criteria the service areas will form. The towers say it'll be 35 to 55 service areas. Whether this reform law represents a new form of reaching eu standards since only 5% of the total billion available to us has been increased from this financial period. Whether consumers, i.e. end-users, will pay and eu pens for the complete fiasco in withdrawing funds from the eu funds. Because the European Commission has launched a procedure for pensioning the Republic of Croatia for failing to meet the deadlines set out in the accession treaty. All agglomerations greater than 15 grand... The inhabitants should have built-in wastewater treatment devices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP generally supports the new Water Services Act, however, we believe that certain important differences in the proposed law are solely political and political in relation to the SDP proposal for a law based on all expertise. The main difference in the bill's proposals also arises. The regulation has been adopted that 20 service areas have been defined, and now we'll probably have 20 service areas, or sorry, we've proposed 20 service areas and now they'll probably be around 35 to 50. Water supplies for human consumption of at least 3 million cubic metres per year are the lower limit for achieving a affordable social economic price of water services, with the possibility of regaining travel, full costs as well as business self-sustainability and financial stability. Which is why we've now reached these 800, up to a million cc's per supplier, and we know that here's the recommendation: that's three million cubic meters a year. But in any case, here are some very good things in this new law. One of these things is that it also enables the peeling and deepening of riverbeds. In this House, you've talked a lot about how our neighbours from Bosnia and Herzegovina have been beating off our Sava and Drava and Dunav and then selling us the same material, and that's frankly, the damage caused by several billion kunas. There's also a colleague from HDZ talking about it, hopefully, here, it won't be any more, that we're actually going to be the least of our own obstacles. But here, it takes time to come to our senses and put together everything we need to make this law good. But there is, when we talk to people from the Croatian waters, and not long ago I was at one lunch, we talked about our problems, the unit of local self-government, then we were told problems related to natural security or nature 2008. We worry about nature more than once, what we need to worry about, some animals protected, what we need to worry about, but less about the man. There are many examples where we care more about a stream that has two fishes that are protected than hundreds of families that flood from that stream every year. Here, that's something we haven't touched in this law, but anyway, I think we should because this is the Ministry and environmental protection, in that sort of thing to worry about. More than once, security guards are obstacles to the implementation of certain projects. I say, I repeat, I am not against the clear nature of nature, however, I need to take care of nature, I am not against animal protection, but there is a measure in all this. Here, and in conversation with people from the Croatian waters there are plenty of examples where we also protect beavers, we should protect them, and then protecting two beavers on a river, it happens to pay for hundreds of houses and people here, lose their property. These are some things that need to be regulated, which is within this ministry, the Ministry of Environment and Water Protection and I will repeat, this law is good, it goes in the right direction, we support it, it is part of our law that we gave in the procedure in 2015, but here, there is also a lack of inadequacy. We will never pass a law that, with which we will all fully agree and where there will be no objections, but here I think, with this debate, our debate, along with some amendments that we have given and again, we will try really to be one opposition constructive, not only to object, and that we have the best laws that we can. Furthermore, what I'd like to point out, here, not long ago in my local self-government unit, I had one event, it was the 1.6th day of the Sava River. We did a rafting on Savi. Here, I've lived in that neighborhood for 50 years, I've never sailed the Sava, but what am I saying? This Sava is amazing how good it looks now than it looked 20 and 30 years ago in my childhood. She was dark, she was, I'd say dangerous to have someone put their foot in, let alone someone swimming. Here, this rafting was really a beautiful experience, a clean, green river of Sava, but here, unfortunately, that river Sava enters Croatia right in my area. I am the first municipality bordering Slovenia, but the Slovenians have done a great deal to protect the Sava River. Out of the purifiers of interest, their every city, the municipalities have purifiers, they have drawn from the EU funds enormous money, not only the purifier but also the regulation, i.e. protection from the harmful influence of the Sava River. In the upper current, i.e. to the border with Croatia, Slovenians built several hydrocentrals. These hydropowers clearly adapted to their environments, they are already fully actuating the harmful impact of Sava as regards the flood. Unfortunately, we in Croatia haven't done much about it. The Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb have long been talking about Zagreb-city on the Sava, or that project on the Sava, but it either gave up or, I don't know what's going on. In addition to that, I can say that, we also had a firm named, the firm was called the Sava Project as part of the HEP, it was abolished. There's no such thing as a company anymore. The explanation of HEP was that it was a rationalisation of costs, so we are now one step further from the realization of everything that was planned in the past, from the hydrocenter, from the protection of the Sava in this upstream, about having Zagreb living alongside the Sava, not Sava being just along the way of the city of Zagreb. Here, these are some things we should give an accent, copy perhaps our neighbors who have done a lot about the protection of the Sava River. Construction of a sewerage network in Croatia, it is something that all units of local self-government, clearly, in this now phase of EU use of funds are trying to make the most of themselves involved, these are huge amounts. In one question, I was talking to the Minister at first about how we should find a way to finance this project because many small municipalities that have entered into the construction of the sewer system do not simply have fiscal opportunities to build that sewer. This Croatian, our home component, which is about 30% of the total investment, and out of that 30%, 30% is the unit of local self-government. Here, I am glad that this law allowed development and water and disposal funds to be used for exactly the financing of this project, but there will need further assistance from the ministry and the state where they might open new credit lines with HBOR, loans of 2%, in order for local self-government units to finance this, these projects. And here, you should never stop repeating how little money cities and municipalities have in total. So only 17% of the total state resources go to, for the use of municipalities and cities, 17% is too little to be able to finance such large projects. And something else I wanted to say is about the price of water. 5.6 years ago when we started talking about cleaners more intensely then the consultants knew how to tell us, it would be the price of water 3 to 5 euros, as it is in Europe. It's clear that we were surprised and said no, I guess it won't be. Here we are today, actually at these limits, our price of water that was once unacquainted with 7, 8, 9 kuna, is already 20, 25 kuna. Clearly, there is no clean water, no drinking water, no environmental protection and no water protection without investment. However, when we look at the comparison of water prices 3 to 5 euros is in Europe, so it will be very soon with us. But the thing is, our receipts, our salaries don't follow the price of water. This is what is worrying that this water affordability among our citizens is not what the water affordability of the average EU population is because their average salary will be 2.3 times higher and the price of our water, the cubicity of our water with all the resources for development and other imposings that go very, very close to this very European price. And in order not to be just fine, here I have some things that I resent in this law, Article 29 says public water service suppliers are obliged to set up a branch at the headquarters of existing water service suppliers that deliver at least 500 thousand cubic metres. I'd say this is a pearl that can only be invented by someone who's never managed it by companies. It would be good to look at what branches are under the Company Act. This structure makes it very difficult to manage newly created public suppliers because we will continue to have parallel systems that will last for several years. One more pearl I have to say, it's an article 71, and now I'm just going to read it quickly. Article 71 says, "A member of the Water Services Council cannot be...", and then writes here: "...be a member of the political party." Well, I mean, it's really the way to laugh, water services, the Water Services Council can't be a member of a political party, but it can be the chief state inspector who went directly from Parliament to head state inspector, he can be a member of a political party. Here, these are some things that we cannot possibly support even though we will generally be in favour of this law, we created it in 2015, so here it is in most parts accepted and I think a step forward as regards water protection in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143357	I thank my colleague Preleco. Next debate on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143358	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. About this set of these three water laws that regulate the water economy and the law on financing and the Water Act in the first reading we have made very extensive our view of it. In principle, the HNS will support all three laws. We also pointed to certain and made certain remarks after the first reading, which were largely appreciated, some more, some less. But what I would like to say is what we in the HNS consider to be the main feature of this law in the direction where the affordability of the price of water services is defined, where it is very clearly defined or defined by the basis of this law and regulation, the way water services are provided, and also better assumptions are created, not only technically but also formal for the adoption of European money as regards investing in less water supply systems and more draining, that is the need. In fact, this law technically covers all areas, and in that part we can express our satisfaction. However, we should also have knowledge of the current state of supply and disposal in the Republic of Croatia, especially through massive losses in water supply systems. And that's certainly something where not only of the Resort Ministry but also of the Water Services Council expects them to make certain recommendations within their respective competences and act. The fact is that the water supply and disposal system in Croatia is somewhere around 190 suppliers based on certain analyses on functional, rational, sustainable systems, but there are also those who are not. This law, based on this law and criteria, respecting both the principles and certain restrictions on the definition of service areas, should be reduced to some 35, 40, 45, regardless of how much water supply, I believe, in practice, will also result in certain rational, certain rationalizations in systems and how much water supply, so much draining. What I would also like to point out as important is the takeover of local water lines which unfortunately based on statistics has about 200, a large number, practically more than public suppliers. However, since it is local plumbing and the name speaks itself, they are practically at the level of parts of the settlement, individual settlements. Looking at quantitatively and given the amount of water, it's not something that should be a problem. The fact is that it is also about local opportunities and also about rapid, present-day care, primarily local self-government about these areas and these settlements. Unfortunately, we also read that there are areas that have not solved public water supply, let alone disposal, which is a problem, and in these situations there are also partially talked about certain restrictions for public suppliers. Also, a law defining the area of funding for water services can, on the basis of experience, say that without adequate support from the national level, these processes and the inclusion of local water pipelines, and in particular the development of water supply in those areas where water supplies are not available, without the financial support of the state, Croatian waters, will simply go extremely hard and slow. The ultimate goal is to revive this law, implement it in practice but what is imperative must not happen that there is a single settlement in the Republic of Croatia that does not have public water supply, it is a standard, it is a minimum that we in the HNS consider to be imperative and should be imperative of these draft laws. It is appreciated between the two readings and our reflections although I see that space for certain corrections is also left which we will probably try to make with the amendment, so in part of the law that speaks of the financing of the water economy Article 10 as regards the very development fee that is, we can compare it to some of the past, as some contribution to an additional thing. In fact, the price of the water service as it writes is financed by the maintenance of the public water supply and public disposal system. The development fee is those financial resources that enable construction, and certainly if in one service area that has logic, which has a reason to balance prices or to be a single price in any service area, in our regard, it would be ideal for us in the HNS to level the price of water services at the Republic of Croatia, in practice that all citizens, independently of areas, on service areas, on water supply areas, would have an approximately uniform water price. Of course, it is a task, first of all to be the Croatian Waters, or Resorving Ministry. In this part of the development fee, we were in the first reading to point out the need for development fees and the fact that part of these fees as currently in the bill may be based on solidarity to be deployed within the service area by the public supplier, however, one part of the development means should be provided to local self-government, and through its representative body and the basis of the programme of the public water service provider, to move into additional investments regardless of whether water supplies, whether discharges, as initial funds. Of course, there, at that time, is expected which is perfectly fine and the resources of local self-government, but we do, we have expressed the dilemma, and that's in Article 10, and that's where we have the dilemma. Thus, the revenue from the development fee introduced at an equal level in the service area and the income from the common part of the fee is used according to the principle of the need championship. We are in favour of quoting from Article 9(1) according to the plan and dynamics of the construction of water supply or disposal devices, because this according to the needs championship, and the possibility of including more units of local self-government which are currently not, I do not know such a case, but also the double right to vote which has also caused the dilemma and we tried to clarify in the first reading, so that there would be no revote, and then the right of the championship in the need of me, we would, and our proposal is that, first of all, according to the plan and dynamics, is a medium-term plan, a multi-annual plan, because certainly it should be adopted because there is one area that can be so much gray. This part where solidarity is mentioned, that part of the freak is collected in the entire service area, and used only in the area of the local self-government unit, means solidarity, our proposal is not to turn out to be not respecting the principles of solidarity, it can be part of being based on solidarity but certainly in those areas that do not have a water supply solution or cannot collect enough resources in their field of development that should certainly involve the state, whether through European money or through their own participation. That's our proposal we'll try to fix that part further with the amendments. This section of the water services, I was also mentioned by local water pipelines, namely, and it is very clear that if in these local water lines, the water is not correct for consumption that the inspector will shut it down. What then, and no new water supply system has been built so that citizens can consume. There should probably be a more detailed definition of it in practice and in the implementation itself, either through the regulation, an additional one, to explain some things. Namely, for which reason, I have examples in, out of practice from my local self-government, we took over two local water lines that were completely correct, the city paid for sanitary inspection of water quality, water quality for drinking, however, of course resistance was provided from the local population. When we filmed an existing network that we should take over, it was worth a whole new one. And my suggestion is that the state here, of course, we got support and Croatian waters were by their own participation it would certainly not be possible and nor could the development fee be accumulated in the long term enough for this investment to be closed in some way. Therefore, state secretaries of suggestion, implementation in practice, taking over local water lines to respect certain specificities, each environment is specific to itself. The vast majority of these water lines, I assume they've given theirs. The question is their further usability, putting into office, not to say from the amount of pressure because it's very likely that there will be technical malfunctions far more frequent than it is. Here I would say one precaution and certainly suggestions from experience, from practice, without the support of Croatian waters or funds it will be extremely difficult to implement. Because also development funds in the service area of suppliers are not enough for such investments. Of course, especially on those parts where there's a lot of these local plumbing. And also areas that aren't covered. There we have had a dilemma of our fellow Croatians which we have in HNS, it has logic and its demand is understandable to us, the supplier of water services I do not know has 700 thousand cubic metres and in perspective, of course all settlements gravitate towards it and those areas, settlements, parts of the settlements that are not covered by public water supply in the perspective will then be covered by some average consumption, will cross even that exception from 800 to millions of cubic meters. It is recommended that an attempt be made in some way to find an option in the perspective, when done and that the regulation should not be that limiting factor, to be a service area for itself, of course, if they meet all those requirements set out in the law. We will support the HNS Club, as I have said in the introduction, and we will try through an amendment that I believe you will apply, correct, practically that certain articles of the law are in practice more quality that they can be implemented with the fact that there will be no change in the final principles and intensities of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143359	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected counterparts Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143360	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a set of three laws in front of us in the second reading. The Water Act, Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act and the Water Services Act. We at the club GLAS and HSU have an absolute position next and when we get a legal solution that is better than the one that is in force, which is working forward we have no problem supporting both in this sense and support this set of legal solutions because we read them in a way that they are improving what we have today, that they are trying to look at the problems they have and offer at this point the best possible legal solutions that systems or that the whole space works. For the simple reason you talk about water, water is for every country, for every nation and grace and curse. It is a blessing when you have drinking water you really have an advantage over some things but also a curse when you have a lot of surface water which is connected to each other then you have a problem swimming and a series of other problems and we read and look at it that way. The debate I'm going to have is actually in three parts. The first part is something related to the water network, the second is related to sustainable development, nature protection and the environment, and the third is actually construction, maintenance and use of individual buildings that serve in terms of water activities. When we talk about water supply and disposal at all, and there are two frightening data and we need to take care of it, and this law must provide opportunities to reduce this problem. One is 53% of your households in Croatia are connected to the drain, 53%. This is the century, I've said it a few times, and I'm sure I'll say it a few more times, centuries where we'll all be fighting the world about climate change, the problem of waste, and I don't want to say garbage, and I prefer to call it waste and the problem of draining wastewater because it's one of the biggest contaminants. And that's the situation we have, and then we have here, let's just say some other things clearly. When Croatia entered the EU, one of the first projects to be prepared was projects related to wastewater treatment. They were relatively correct, we were ready but, let me say, but what happened. They all spoke to the number of inhabitants who were unrealistic. Not only was there not an increase in the number of inhabitants but it was also a reduction in the number of inhabitants and then you always have a question of sustainability of such a system, a system should be maintained, it must have a flow of a certain amount of waste water because otherwise you will be releasing normal water through to make it work, and the question is whether you are paying and paying from, the water fee you pay and so on. On the one hand, we all have a desire together to get rid of wastewater solved in the right way. We have a wish, everyone has a desire to have wastewater purifiers. And then when you do, you don't have enough population. One of the biggest systems that were created was the Kaštela system, Split, everything else that was released into operation, and then there was one problem, so the primary network was created for you because you didn't have made it, and then there was one problem, so the primary network was created for you, but you didn't have a secondary network, or all of those tiny little streets or alleys were not connected to the drain, and there was too much capacity and you're letting water in to make it work at all. So that's one of the things we need to take care of. The other thing that should also be taken into account is 50% of the loss on waternets. I rarely agree with my colleague Batinić, but when he said that he had a case of these losses, that instead he decided and did a new water network, my experience is the same, if it really is such great losses, it's just a patching, it holds water while the masters go away, it means you'll need to work new waternets if the losses are too great, it means that the drinking water that is the grace, which you are fortunate to have, you treat it in a way that is irrational, it goes where you should and where you don't need it. Thus, this law, or set of laws, of course, pointed to that. Through the reform of the water of the municipal sectors, I hope that what we often like to say may succeed in part and allow, or rationalise it all together, but there you are when it comes to decommissioning, which we often like to say, which is sustainable development. In short, if we should say what sustainable development is, sustainable development is that no matter where it lives in this beautiful country, it has the same conditions. It means that no matter where he lives, he has a connection to the water network, that you have a draining date, so when we talk about this, it's a topic, and we know he doesn't have and it's just the same question when it's going to happen, but that's something we need to realize and what we need to strive for. Equally, when it comes to protecting against harmful effects of water, floods are facts, floods are no longer the chance that part is not blue and now there are a series of decisions that are not simple. About 50 years ago, some countries protected from floods, concreted their canals, made solid forts against flood protection, and the water quickly passed and did not swim where it had been swimming before, but who passed through the canal quickly and swam somewhere else. Now, which methodology and which way to take, I'd like to have, if there was a magic wand, if there was one universal solution, I'd also like to say it, but it doesn't exist. There are a number of things to take care of, natural retentions are one of the good things, so, when you have, especially the City of Zagreb has this stream of streams that go down from Medvednica and then fill and natural, when it's increased you fill and natural retention, which is actually good, but that's the thing that you have to constantly deal with, which you have to constantly find solutions, none of these laws should be seen as being carved into stone, so it's carved and there's no change, it needs to be changed according to new methodologies, new ways, we're also, our construction sector was kind of the closest to doing big dams, so it's a rash of stone, so it's up and concrete, and I don't know what it't, now a little thinks different and good that it's so. And this third topic that I'd like to say a few words about, which is in terms of environmental protection and nature protection. Watching the environment and nature, inseparably from the water is impossible, but that man should always be somehow rational and should be somehow, trying to find the best possible solution, extremely never good, you know when extremely always actions cause reaction, I would point to this fact which is related to the exploitation of gravel and sand from the riverbed. We were very easy to warn about, but I must say, we introduced a provision prohibiting the exploitation of gravel and sand and we were quite proud of nature's protection, but at the same time the situation proved to be not so. To me is the best and dearest example of the Sava River trough. The bridge of the Sava River, on the one hand we, on the other side of the neighbouring country. The border goes to the motherland of the river, and now in our country, on ours, we build some roads and on half that falls to Croatia there is no exploitation or sand, no gravel, on that imaginary half that belongs to the neighbouring country because they have no such regulation, we go to build some roads, they regularly dig up that sand and gravel and sell us, but then it happens to you that your queen is how they, therefore, happens to you that the Korito alliance of the Croatian side here, on the side of BiH here and the river of course the queen goes like this and there when you compare the cards a little bit and when you compare the footage from the air you see there, exactly where there has been an increased explosion that the river has made a small shift and in fact there is a small surface of BiH increased, which is not really something that man would now put on some big debate, but it seems to you all together that the same river on the other side can's not explode. I don't advocate exploiting at all costs, but I advocate that there are really cooperation, and now it's said that it's all in the same ministry, so the Ministry of Environmental Protection to rationalise itself and that there are really some corporals that you have to do in a certain way controlled exploitation for the simple reason that in this way you protect and the plant and animal world, you're moving from the crust of application that can then, at the time of the flood, cause new floods because if you have the bottom of the river there, and there is, of course, the water is always, the same, it's going to swim for you, and so it's good that we now have this provision which is defined and in which it's defined that renewable beds are the one where gravel and sand can be exploited, and I'd say, at the moment when big water that we're carrying the gravel and sand, not only that you can be used to protect yourself. What must be taken into account and what must be taken into account and this must therefore not only through law and ministry, it is to take care of the reduction of the effects of floods and droughts. So what will certainly be the fact of these climate change and these are your floods and these are your droughts. The plant and animal world will certainly change and this must be taken into account jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Water Management, the Forests, so this is one process to be taken into account together and the next topic is to reduce the pollution of groundwater. What I was saying at the outset is that the water on the one hand is a blessing for you and on the other hand a curse, if you don't apply it in an adequate way, you'll suddenly have, you'll have groundwater, you'll have the possibility of exploiting but there's nothing to exploit, because man will do with his actions to pollute them so we won't have any more. So, as I said, we will support these three laws, so these three sets of laws, they are one step in the improvement, they should look at them, they should not be looked at, they should not be seen as untouchable, so when we see that something doesn't work, change but what's much more important is that what these laws are talking about, so about protecting water, about protecting the world of animals, about protecting the whole area, that's what we need to worry about because we won't have this country that is beautiful, we won't have it or leave it polluted and we'll leave it on our children and grandchildren all the time as something that we need to worry about, and it's time to react now, it's not time to react for 10, 15 or 20 years, when these consequences are already seen, but it's time to react to now and all of sustainable development development, the same conditions, it's about everything, so it's an effort for the country, so we have the country, so we have the country, so we've got a lot of millions of life, and we's built out of life, and we's, so we's got all the most, and we's all we's got all the most, and we's all the most we's all the most, and we's got the most, and we's all the right, and we's all the right, and we's, we's, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's all the right, and we's, and we's got the right, and we's, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's, and we's got the right, we's got the right, we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right, and we's got the right I can't help but mention this, there was a colleague, Zagreb on the Sava or the Sava town, there were cities that developed on rivers and there were cities that didn't develop on rivers. When you come to Slavonski Brod, you have the feeling that when you came to Osijek, Osijek was developing on the river, Zagreb did not develop on Savi, Zagreb did not turn its beautiful fronts towards Sava but turned to its backs and then it should be seen in Zagreb as added value and not as something to trade and develop real estate business, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143361	I thank my colleague, Dark Taritash. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143362	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries with an associate, here on behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club, a few words about the package of these three water laws, water services and funding of the water economy. The introduction said that we are in line with these three laws with EU legislation and that in a certain way we want to make one reform in the water supply, water management, or make a sustainable system. However, the key question is whether these three laws are going to achieve that basic goal, and this should certainly be for us from the HSS that water is a fundamental human right, that we should also have constitutional law as regulated by Slovenia and certainly be available or at least as accessible to all citizens in all areas of the Republic. It is a key issue that is raised before us and before the proposings, which is also asked by the citizens and also by the businessmen, whether the water will be available tomorrow, whether it will be healthy and whether the price of water will grow for the citizens and the economy because we see that some other energy is growing prices and there is a real danger that it will grow and the price of water and I will say later and why we believe that it will probably rise and that it certainly is not good. What we want to specifically warn about is that water as a public good and that is, human rights is our national interest, or should be our national interest, and why we from the HSS Club will suggest that we go both in the direction of Slovenia, changes to the Constitution, and also as we should all be here primarily to protect national interests and water supplies, I would like to remind you that we are the richest state in Europe by supplying drinking water, somewhere over 27 000 liters per capita head, the richest, we must be aware of that and protect it, especially in the context that many here are banging themselves in the chest as sovereigns and then voting for laws where we or silently vote on certain laws where we do not protect our national interests and the example is water. Here are recently through lex Agrokor, through a settlement passed on concessions to companies, mirror companies from Agrokor Group to Forte new groups, as well as to Jamnica that we certainly should not have allowed and constitutional legal experts to say that the Croatian Government, Croatia as the holder of concession rights, had not only through the agreement on the transfer of financial rights and other requests from the Agrokor settlement, should have protected national interests through the transfer of concessions to both water and state agricultural land, which is certainly not good and here we disagree with it, because this Croatian Parliament, our state council, as Radic said was the Croatian Defence and the Croatian Shrine, a place from which rights are defended and a right to a better future of the Croatian people. This assembly, I believe, will mark June 20th and June's victims should read and listen to some or most of Radic's statements as early as '918. when we Croats said, then he said on the left we were always fighting aliens and at least we didn't allow the alien to be in greater rights and become owner of Croatia, and now through the transfer of concession in a certain way Croatia's national interests we transferred concessions to, and to the water on the foreign companies for which we don't even know who their owners are, and here the pressure is being put on the head of the municipality to transfer and concessions to the state agricultural land which is certainly not good. When it comes to water prices, we see reports that they move in Croatia from 7 to 27 kuna, how. And I suppose that through this reform, or a reduction in the number of public water suppliers, order will be made on that market, because so far we have had more than 190 public water suppliers, there has been an increase in the number of employees in them, their losses in business, the growing losses in the network, and then, of course, it has been a reflection and it has increased the price of citizens and it has been unequal, and the price of the economy has increased. And that there wasn't enough publicly transparently demonstrated change in the whole. And this is a good thing that you've now installed in the law that there must be a public debate before price changes. However, it is not good that there are such large range of prices in Croatia, it is not good that the economy has such high prices and that it is also one of the parafiscal burdens on our economy and that we can hardly expect to develop if we are not with all the stakeholders who have talked to part of this system and have sought solutions that this water price is affordable for both citizens and the economy, especially in the context that the rules are being prepared that public water suppliers will have to pay no more for the water supply of concessions for affected water than for water. And it will certainly be difficult to find this balance between the economic costs of public delivery and the interests of citizens and the economy to have a affordable price of water and it is certainly not good that the government then defines by a regulation which 35, 40 public water suppliers will tomorrow but should have discussed it here in the Croatian Parliament with clear criteria on who will be the public water supplier tomorrow and rightly ask me in Djakov and Slavonski Brod, whether our water supplyer will remain or be forced by the government regulation to attach to another water pipeline. And in particular, the question is how will it be resolved and who will finance the losses in the network? For example, in the cities mentioned in both Slavonski Brod and Novi Gradiška as well as in Djakov there are huge losses, about 50% of the network is a loss of water from supply to end-user, which we certainly need to find ways to finance, to reduce those losses in the network, to keep this system sustainable, as Mrs Taritash said earlier. And it can only be sustainable if it is financed from EU funds, so it is a devastating fact that we have dislocated some over a billion euros for this area of water supply and water treatment and that over 90% of the public calls have already been made, but that only 10% has been paid. It's not good and it has to change. It is necessary to say openly where these critical points are. Are public water suppliers unable to prepare projects and implement projects or is there a problem in the administration and bodies in charge of controlling and implementing them? And it has to be solved if we want to solve the very problems we have on the ground. We at HSS insist on establishing a solidarity fund that has been announced because the founders and units of local self-government on the islands will not be able to finance water supply for the islands, and we also ask that it be settled for villages that are away from the water suppliers in rural areas, because it is nice to hear that over 96% is available, the construction of the network, but there are still villages where there is no possibility of drinking water connection, and where it is built we have a problem that few connections. Why? So because the high prices of connections are for citizens who have a salary of 3,3,500 kuna or for pensioners who have small pensions that barely cover the directors and have to rely on a wider family to survive, they do not have the means to pay for the drinking water connection. And therefore, precisely from this solidarity fund, this should be resolved from EU funds in one more quality way, and not to have only 10% paid so far. Also, I think we need to work harder and faster to build water treatment and purifiers here, even worse or much worse than in water supply, and certainly we don't have that right to wait, because we haven't protected our water supply sites enough, our water heaters, we've defined, we've defined the sanitary protection zones, but the question of whether it's being carried out. And last time on the first reading, I asked if there were any data on how many inspection controls were carried out, at the water supply station in Davor, since a mile from the dump site was either better to say the dump because it was not a proper waste dump because it was exceeded the amount that was to be brought there according to the applicable permit. Whether there have been incidents, whether some heavy metals have been identified in the translucent waters or not, God of toxic substances has never given us an answer. I'd like to get an answer if it's really going to finally close because there's already overrun the amount of waste that's been brought up there above the used permit, and I don't think it makes any sense there to prolong that citizens' agony because 60 thousand people are being fed up from this waterhole, from Nova Kapela to Okucana, and it would be devastating to have an incident there and to contaminate that water supply site, and anyway, a regional waste disposal centre is being built at New City, which is going to be for 3 counties, and then there's no point in still bringing waste here and making a possible threat to drinking water. And also, I mentioned last time, the problem at Koprivnica's Piskornica, where the local chief went to great lengths, so they did an analysis of the translucent waters in the local waterways below and above this waste dump, so the increased concentrations of heavy metals were established, so we don't seem to be doing enough either in inspection control or in publicly available data to tell who is doing it, why and whether or not he can do it and whether we have permission to do it, and we can't possibly justify that we're jeopardizing both public water streams, and then the plumber that's underneath and certainly have to protect it. The problem of agriculture, i.e. channel network 3rd and 4th lines, is mentioned here. I appeal here, on behalf of all the chiefs and mayors of Slavonia to urgently find the means to clean up that channel network to the end, part of it has been cleaned, but over 3 km only, 3 thousand km only in Brod-Posavina County, over 6 thousand km in Osijek-Baranja is still uncleaned and it is certain that it prevents further development of agriculture and the use of this agricultural land for agricultural production, and it is certain that it needs to intensify investment and disposal, but of course also in irrigation. She already mentioned a colleague here a problem and floods and droughts. We already have high temperatures due to climate change these days and surely some cultures will need irrigation. We do not have the possibility, however, of floods as well, here, there were hurricanes or thunderstorms and streams of streamers again caused damage in the area of Okucan, Cernik and other villages under Psunj. Certain retentions and accumulations have been planned, and they have stalled the realization of the same ones. I don't know why, I think we should do this parallelly because they're huge damages that have been done and they're going to need to be solved, and then tomorrow we can do it again if they don't build these retentions, accumulate as protection for these wells, and on the other hand, they can be used to irrigate the agricultural areas around here. And I would also mention here what my colleague Mrsic was saying this morning. Among the two readings, the Institute of Water is detached from the Croatian Waters into a separate institution, the question is why they moved on to the model. Isn't that a new cost for the state budget, for the citizens. We had an example that 20 different agencies and institutions were abolished under the savings parol, although we did not get clear indications of how much savings for Croatian agriculture that had been abolished by the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service, the Croatian Agricultural Agency and other bodies that served our agricultural producers, it is unclear to me, if we have an example of Slovenia, Bavaria and some other developed countries where the advisory service is a quality service for agricultural producers, we are abolishing it under the saving password, and here we are establishing a new institute that worked well within Croatian waters. Whether this is a new entanglement, a new cost, I would like to hear the answers because there are over 20 million kunas only invested from the EU funds in the equipment of this institute that should be a system for scientific research, control and monitoring. Whether he's in the way or not, we've got our pucks out of Europe, so we have to set him up. I'd like to get an answer to those questions, so we'll figure out how to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143363	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143364	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of the clubs, we heard most of the thinking, thinking about this package of water laws ahead of us. It is good that the first reading, after the first reading, was adopted a whole series of remarks. From what we've heard, we can conclude that this law has been prepared very thoroughly and from this basis all praise to the designers and the Ministry, the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As much has been said so far, I will touch a few concrete examples so that everyone together realizes that everything that is written in this law and what is happening on the ground should be considered through the lives of our citizens. An example of a small beautiful part of the mountain cotter, Chabra, recently a few weeks ago we were able to go to the HRT Dnevnik, RTL, New TV, I don't know which media, to hear that the citizens remained amazed at drinking 2 years of broken water. However, this information is not correct. If you check the Internet with, write only Chabar incorrect water, you will see that in 2010 there were warnings in the media, you will see that in 2011, 2017, even headlines were locals of Chabra threatening dysentery. And no one's doing anything. This is where we heard from the secretary of state at one point when the question of water regularity was asked that it was not in the jurisdiction of this ministry, this law. That there's the Department of Public Health, the Ministry of Health. And if that's the case, then the question is, do we sometimes act like drunk billionaires? If it is in the jurisdiction of the town of Chabra, if it is located in the Primorje-Gorski County, if the School of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County knew all this, knows these facts and knows the problems of those close to 2000 people in the area, why is nothing taken? At the same time, this same county, which according to this bill, whose funds are compensated for that part of the funds called melioration funds for the purpose of imagining a accumulation lake in the Platak Mountain so that they can make artificial snow. So the population of Gorski kotar drinks broken water, nothing is done, not for 2 months or a month as much as it has been going on in the media for 10 and over years. And it's a fact and it's a reality and it's the life of our citizens. Among other things, it's something that should be prescribed by this law and bound by someone to do it. Here we have an example, again you've all heard, again we're talking about the Gorski kotar, that famous new Swiss business when it provided the Gorski kotar with the funds for this particular purpose, the construction of water supply, draining and all that sort of stuff. One wonderful piece of information, the village of Crnni Lug in Gorski Kotar numbers only a few dozen inhabitants. According to our megalomaniac plans, agglomerations or I don't know what we're going to call it all was planned to create a sewer system and everything else that we would normally need. When the Swiss came, they said, "Are you guys crazy?" These few inhabitants must have septic caves impermeable and you arrange for transport with tanks monthly or already as much as there is a need for the right system. I am saying this for a reason because I am now descending from the Gorski kotar towards the Croatian coast, and even today we have villages and parts of the settlement that do not have proper drinking water, which have no water at all. An example of a move between Fužinski Benkovec towards the settlement of Zlobin Brdo and Draga has no drinking water. The projects are here, the building permit is here, but someone has determined that it's a priority upgrade. Because here we have this article of the 10th that is positive, in which it is detailedly elaborated and discussed the compensation for development. In 2009 to 2010, the development fee was the original income of the unit of local self-government in the area where it was collected. So the citizens of one city, municipality or already in the price of their services paid development fees. These were dedicated funds exclusively for those water supply needs or system upgrades in their area. That's changed, now it's the public delivery company's income. This law introduces a category of solidarity. And what's good, which I say hello, and the big one won't agree to is this new decision-making model where it goes to a double majority, which is now prescribed and recognised in this law. And then again, when it comes to paying, there's always a question from our citizens on the ground, why we pay for the water, why we pay for such a water contribution. Well, I'm asking a question now that I know why we pay for it and why it needs it. For example, with me, on my field, there is an obvious example, and it probably happens that way and in Croatia there is a water contribution. So Croatian waters, they calculated millions and 200 thousand kunas of water contribution to the preparation of the terrain to build something on it. And then, at the same time, when the investor came and went to build their own facility on that ground when the permit was issued, they recharged him with a water contribution. And that's some things that can't happen, can't happen. And when a remark is delivered, that is to say, when this problem is to be resolved in a way that is corrected, it must not last on the ministries or on state institutions for years because it is live money that needs to be returned to the economy or re-occurred to the population in the construction and upgrade of the infrastructure in order for that particular population to live in the area. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Development fees, I am also on the board and later and at the meeting spoke a lot about this article, as stated acceptable, can be accepted because it was developed in paragraph 2 in those three sub-paragraphs where the fee for development in the price of water service is spoken of. So it serves in the first part the part relating to devices and facilities used by all in the service area. So water stations, purification devices and everything else and that's OK. The second part, the one that refers to something that units of local self-government can set upon their own request, according to their plan. And a third part called solidarity. Now this is where we come to this double-majority model in the decision-making plan, and in that part, I thought we might need to change. However, as stated in that section of solidarity, if this is the case in the realisation of the law itself on the ground, it will be conducted OK. But here I see another significant key in the decision-making process and it is just contained in that paragraph 7 and here I call both the Government and the Ministry when it comes to this regulation. A regulation which will define the methods and models in which those funds will be able to be used or distributed to water serviceable, in the field of service. So this package of laws just like it was listed especially in this now French edition after the first reading where a number of changes were incorporated I think we can all accept together. With the fact that I am really, here I am calling for, I appeal, regardless of whether in the jurisdiction of this ministry or of that ministry, and among other things I am using this position as Parliament's representative to get to know all of you, to invite the authorities in the Primorje-Gorski County to face the problem of this mountainous village of Chabar, because today in our time, we should all be ashamed that people have been drinking sanitaryally incorrect water for 10 years and that we all know that. At the same time, to build some accumulations for snowing, while spending a great deal of resources in some agglomerations and upgrades in certain parts of Croatia, and not to go to new investments to preserve both the population and their health. In any case, I'm going to use the last seconds, the caution never enough and in this part that applies to these very agglomerations, the designs, the inventions of which of any devices and modern technologies, the rounding of agglomerations with some kind of a purification device when now, technology has so advanced that practically after cleaning up in... You can drink water on the sphincter, let's do some megalomanic expensive systems that don't actually bring anything new, and the best example is that even though it's not part of this law, and such and some outdated technologies and reckless moves, this famous Mariščina in the Primorje-Gorski County where there's a lot of money being beaten, and it's practically unusable and it hasn't received the results that we've all demanded. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143365	Thank you, Mr. Klaric. We've got a replica, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143366	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here, colleague Klaric, I'm going to refer a little bit to this last part of your debate where you've actually well noticed that we have one pre-named and complete water utility infrastructure that, in my future, can lead to certain privatisation pressures. So, there will be a rise in maintenance costs and despite the fact that we now have the principle of the anti-privatization character of this law, it may in the future affect that we have certain privatisation pressures precisely because of the rise in these maintenance costs. So, I don't think we had that one general plan, about water supply okay, there's quite clear that every house should have, wherever that resident lives, should have available water, but around the drain I don't think we've done it well and that it's threatening us in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143367	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143368	A fellow Squishy... in these things operational, as well as Mr. Prelec and all of our colleagues, here's Davor, agreeing because we know well how to do it on the ground, how to prepare the project and how the implementation of the project is going. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The absurd examples that happen in my city that based on some 80-year-old Adriatic project, I have to pump water from 12 settlements on the coast of the sea, that the same water from the sea, from the coast of the sea, the pumping station over the hills to the other coast of the sea, where one central device will be built there. Today, when there is a small device, when each of these settlements can have its own device that costs three times cheaper and that the absurd would be larger, 15g. They are already doing project documentation for me in order to implement this sewerage system project in my city at all, and there are many such cities throughout the Republic of Croatia. Here's this example I mentioned earlier when the Swiss came to the Black Lug, they asked if you guys were crazy, works for 10 houses sewer system, and it all leads to the Delnices, not a device about cleaning pipes, what's wrong with you, buy a tanker, drive it there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143369	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143370	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues, today here we have the final proposal for water economic laws, two months ago we discussed the draft of these laws in the first reading and I can say that I am grateful to the promoter because in the Final Proposal of the Law he included indeed most of the remarks of us MPs. Of course, I am also pleased that 3 of my suggestions are included, the first proposal is that the one-member water service provider's administration is chosen by a double majority, which will allow a more democratic form of appointment, or the selection of directors of public water service providers, so that it enjoys wider trust and can reconcile the different interests of the company's stakeholders. Secondly, the Proposer accepted the remarks made by us by a number of representatives who requested a longer deadline for the implementation of the accession, given that it was a complex procedure, instead of a 90-day period of 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Service Areas Regulation. And third, to enable the start of the uniting of the supplier in 2019. for the reference date of financial and other reports, it was adopted on 31 December 2018 when all official reports were drawn up, not on 1 January 2019, as originally proposed. On the other hand, I must draw attention again to the proposal which is not accepted in the final proposal of the Water Services Act, and I believe that water service suppliers should be set up as a limited liability society, not to leave the possibility of being formed as a shareholder society, so I will repeat what I said and in the debate in the first reading, that before the association of society should be transformed into d.o.o. Since, in terms of changes in ownership, it is easier to implement and control the anti-privatisation nature of this law, and in the event that it is necessary to know that shares are freely traded, which is not in the spirit of this law and this form of society opens up the possibility of possible abuses, and that here is the integrity of the purchase possible contracts, should not be corrected afterwards in courts and prove which law is older, whether the Law on Commercial Companies or the Waters Act, I believe that the form of a company is d.o.o. more appropriate. Furthermore, the final draft law introduces an exception to the basic criteria set out in Article. 7th century 2 for the establishment of a service area, this exception refers to the possibility of establishing a service area and according to other criteria, which is the supply of water for human consumption of between 800 000 and million m3 per year, with meeting the natural criteria of affordability of current and future water prices. The aim of that provision is to enable exceptional institutional independence for a small part of the medium-sized public delivery company which at the moment demonstrates the technical and financial strength for self-sustainability and are not undertakings of the acquirer in that area. This provision introduces a small confusion in the law, but does not explain why a service area exists for those who create 800 to a million cubic metres, it is not clear why it would not be determined, why this provision does not apply to other societies that satisfy the current and future price of water, and they deliver, for example, a million, 300 cubic metres a year because those who do not read the law carefully, think it implies it. As I have already mentioned, it should be pointed out that I do not have a clear decision to set up a water institute, at least not in the form of amendments to the final proposal of the Water Law, according to this proposal, the Institute should be set up by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide scientific support for water management in accordance with the Water Management Strategy and would be financed from the compensation for the revenue of Croatian Waters. So if this is the institution's activity, I think its founder would be more appropriate if it were Croatian waters and if he were to do some other business which is likely to be the statute and foreseeable, then it should certainly be arranged for Croatia's leaders to give prior consent to the business plan of the institute which concerns monitoring for their needs and, as far as I've heard from both the Minister and you State Secretary, that part will be regulated by the regulation establishing the institute. Finally, the debate on these three mentioned laws puts into focus the net income of the household as a reference parameter for sustainability or for the financing of EU projects. Namely, the National Institute for Statistics in Cooperation with the World Bank carried out a project called Maping and estimating the geographical distribution of risk of poverty and social exclusion for small areas of the Republic of Croatia. This activity stems from initiatives launched by the European Commission in cooperation with the World Bank for the Risk Assessment of Poverty for lower territorial areas such as territorial levels, NUC2 and NUC3 regions. Looking at county-level estimates, they range from 9.8% to 35.9%. The lowest risk assessment of poverty rates is of course recorded in the city of Zagreb since 9.8, the Primorje-Gorski County, for example 11.9 and the highest ones are recorded in Brod-Posaviska 35.9 and Virovitica-Podravska County 33.4%. What does that mean for today's debate on the subject of water, so it means something like this. One of the reference parameters for the possibility of using non-refundable European and national funds through the financing of works within agglomerations is the affordability of the water price after the completion of the investment. And this final investment, meaning we should meet the objectives of two European directives, a directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and a directive on water for human consumption. In this respect, the water price after the investment has been completed must be affordable and it is affordable if it is not higher than 3% of the net available household income for a specific NUC free region or county. We know that agglomeration projects at country level are now funded by 70% of the EU formula and 10 Croatian waters, 10% of the state budget and the remaining 10% local component. And all three of these sources, these are grants and the procedures are equal at the level of the entire state, regardless of the net available income of the household of some environment, we also know that richer environments can easily finance project documentation, solve property-legal relations, hire experts, certain law firms that will prepare tenders, conduct public competition, select performers and ultimately implement the whole project so as not to have inconsistencies that neither here subsidise the pension additionally, often high costs that go to investors' burden. All these costs will be included in the price of water and will be within the limits of affordability in part and due to the large net income of the household while the environment with significantly lower net household income will be more difficult to achieve and, due to the high cost of investment, will become a problem with the self-sustainability of the system or affordability of the water price to a maximum of 3% of the net income available. I think that this way of financing agglomeration projects is not implemented in line with the cohesion policy on equal regional development, I believe that the national component should be different for those environments that are below and above the average of the net available income of the household at country level, so that the environments with the highest risk assessment of poverty have zero local financing components and would only really help less developed regions to comply with the commitments of the EU directive, achieve the affordability of the water price and the self-sustainability of the system, and which would certainly have a particular impact on the rapid development of these environments. This law regulates these parameters, but if we want to and really strive to develop our country evenly, it has to be different, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143371	Thank you, fellow Cosic. We move on to the next debate on behalf of, or individual debate of, a respected colleague, Marko Vedligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143372	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague and fellow MPs, here's what I'm going to say at the beginning when we're discussing these laws, when we're making them, maybe we should think a little bit outside of some frameworks that we've all been given especially because it's something that's very sensitive, something that citizens are particularly sensitive about, and that's definitely water. I will refer to the Water Services Act in my debate because I do not share the opinion of the majority here that he is so good, that it is so good that this rounding that this law plans, despite that it is part of the policy that I am going to say even independently about some changes of power, it must have happened sooner or later, but I think that whenever we do such laws, there must be some exceptions, he is probably for most good but for a certain minority he is not. And now we are in this second reading and we have made some exceptions, he is a fruit here, we have heard through the debate itself, and certain initiatives that colleagues had on board and on the committees and on reading here at the plenary session when it was the first reading of this law and me on the one hand, and it's nice to see that you as a ministry have also admitted that here you can be these middle suppliers, I don't know how you've just determined this amount of 800,000 to a million cc's of water delivered that they can possibly be economical and that they can be self-sustainable. I am now interested in why they could not be small suppliers because I have a concrete example, I will now give some information that a small supplier, a supplier who delivers 200,000 cubic metres is actually quite sustainable that it can work, that it constantly invests, which is why we would not go to one exception, it is really a water supply system, or a company that deals with water supply in the city where I am mayor, in Pregrad, but we have a few more examples in the Krapina-Zagorje County area, because the past is of course about the organisation of these water supply systems is different and some units are thanks to, of course, the first and resources they had and these are primarily sources but thanks to one of their own so I will also tell them that they have managed to build this system relatively well, and they are very well functioning, so today one of course has been asked what they are, first and the citizens are asking whether to raise the price. Let's say now for the water supply system in the area of the town of Pregrada, the supplier... So we have, it covers 95% of the population in the area of the town of Pregrada, affects the water from 2 springs, so it has a total of 14 facilities, it has a network that is 197 km long and distributes them to some 2600 connections, it affects more edge parts of some other local units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say that there are only 8 employees, total revenues of 4.8 million kuna, the value of the company 45 million kuna, here in 2014 to 2018 is realised a total of 8.8 million kuna, in 2019 additional 2.5 million kuna were agreed and another project di is soon expected to make a final decision from the EU of 100% of the funding amounting to 4.7 million kuna. So there's a price of water that's the lowest in Krapina-Zagorje County, of course under this new law, it's going to need if there's a connection with some larger system and it's going to come by law, the price of water will have to be equal in the service area. And now from all this data when you compare it, we can actually conclude all of what you're saying in the law, all of these reasons why the law is being passed, which is why we're going to round up that we already have it in this little system. So he's self-sustaining, he's financially stable, he's an effective water service provider, he's constantly developing, he's successfully maintaining his water supply area, and he's becoming positive even though he doesn't meet this condition, and I'm sorry to make an exception for someone and in this case he couldn't make an exception. This is an indicator that you've actually been running some numbers and that you haven't been buried below the surface because I'm sure there are still such examples in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and these are smaller environments, but people are and emotionally I'm going to say about it because it's something that's actually grown in front of their eyes, this system has been developing from year to year, and it's the fruit of a number of generations, so there's a uncertainty in front of us, so I can't support this law because I don't think that for such small systems it's just going in the right direction. I'll say for the end of this, to end that we always have to do what I said and at first be very, very careful, there's one saying that Benjamin Franklin said that when the waters dry, only then do we realize its importance. Not of course, Croatia has very good water resources and will certainly not dry them in Croatia but we are going in one direction to centralisation of the system, we are going to go to one rounding and this can in the future really lead to that, despite the anti-privatisation character that contains this law in principle, to report some pressures due to the cost of maintaining such a dimensioned system and that we will have to ić in privatisation. Smaller systems, it's proven in practice are sometimes more efficient, more tough, more flexible, and in this case unfortunately we haven't considered it at all, little has changed since the first reading, so this law cannot be supported, here thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143373	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143374	Thank you. Before us is the law, three packages of law, the Water Services Financing Act, the Water Services Act and the Water Act. What we are pleased to see is that after the first reading, our proposal has entered, which respects the fact that the current use or enables the continued use of the development fee, because when this package came as a proposal, everyone was already considering the areas of water service suppliers and, of course, justifiably since the Water Service Act provides criteria for the same, it is certain that the areas of water service suppliers in the future will change and that is of course what first intrigues all water service suppliers and representatives of local self-government units on them. In this whole debate, he loses sight of this part that tells us whether or not any area will change, everyone will have to work under the new law and what is key, as we have also talked to representatives of local self-government units in the area of the water supplyer Makarska, i.e. Brela, Baška Voda, Makarska, Podgora, Tučepi and part of the Municipality of Gradac is to certainly be respected and leave this development fee paid by residents of one or more units of local self-government and for a special purpose or for investing in water utility and systems in that area and it is very important that it remains because without it it would be unimaginable future work of water service suppliers both in our area, so in other areas whether the area of water supplying water services is expanding or not and we thank you for having entered the law. Of course, we will try to talk and other amendments to more implementing acts so that this development fee is better used and that, in practice, the application of these laws is better, so we will try to integrate it into the other amendments. In particular, it means, as regards the Water Services Act, in Art. 24. Of course, since it is the funds collected in the area of one or more units of local self-government, it must be amortised to all the options of the blockade and of the suppliers of such water services, so we propose that, if they are not taken by double vote, since it is the means of a unit of local self-government, that one-thirds of the ordinary majority, i.e. the ordinary majority to make, not only the decision on the development compensation, but the basis of the representative body of the local self-government unit, to adopt a specific building plan, the borrowing plan and all other supporting acts that have not been defined so far, and I believe that this will be adopted. As far as art is concerned. 26, there we certainly support the changes after the first reading that the director is brought by a double majority, but of course, if blockages occur, it is very important to apply Art. 4. 24. As far as art is concerned. In 89, there is a reference to the introduction of core capital. Although the law envisioned that by 2013, local self-government units would transfer ownership from all water utility to suppliers. We, since our units of local self-government have already done so, of course, have become concerned that the rest of the surrounding area will be pumped by core capital, etc., but since I personally know that at certain times local self-government units have been responsible for financing, EU funds and other funds being owned by, and after 2013, it is certainly understandable that such capital is being introduced. There are already limits you've provided for by law. What we suggest is that the assessment of such properties is carried out by the public supplier, that it is commissioned, that all units of local self-government in the area of the new supplier are equally evaluated by the real estate and, of course, on the basis of such a uniform assessment to increase the underlying capital rather than having one estimate for similar or equal real estate in different areas, and we believe that it is very important. As far as the Third Law is concerned, we are already in the first reading of this area, or we have accepted this request for development compensation. I have here, we're making a proposal for new amendments to the Water Services Act, and as for the Water Act, we, in our area, have this problem that one part of the buildings, the objects, that they illegally join the coastal waters and when the larger rains and rainfalls, simply happen to floods and the task of controlling who illegally joined the coastal waters, so far it's been on the inspector who was in the county or the communal directors partially doing it, but it wasn't defined which are all their powers. We propose here in art. 77 that this is now being done by a water inspector within a water service company because it is very important that such problems can be dealt with on the ground, because the best person who violates the decision of a water company, the best such supervision can also be done by his inspector, because I do not know what is in the other areas, but only one person has been in charge of our area so far and it has not been convenient to solve it, so we have a proposal for this third law, small corrections that we have sent through the amendment. So, I repeat once again, although it is not the subject of this law, of course, that everyone is talking about new areas of water service suppliers, about a company of entrepreneurs and other companies that would enter into one society, but regardless of which, by this law, if we remain within the same limits, or if society remains within the same limits, they must operate under this law, and it would be unimaginable to operate without these development fees which, of course, can be decided by the representative bodies of the local self-government unit. We agree and feel that it is very important that ownership of such assets is carried out by water companies, that it is very important that the already existing suppliers are water service providers, not that they are free on the market and that the properties or water utility buildings are the owners of local self-government units that then choose any supplier on the free market, so that we consider it very important, but of course with all these restrictions and suspensions and compromises so that we do not enter into another extreme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143375	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vranesh. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, is not present. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143376	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. Here, we have discussed these three laws and these amendments several times, and I think that, in the context of both EU funds and the possibility of withdrawing and editing systems, it is extremely important that these laws be passed. We are witnessing that given the large number of municipalities, small municipalities and cities that do not have fiscal capacity enough to implement certain large projects, the basis of the recommendations and directives, it is possible to form certain agglomerations that can thus create preconditions in order for certain environments to be able to make quality solutions both waterways and sewerages. As one of the Frisce examples I have from my field is, for example, the agglomeration that takes place in the city of Zadar and all the units involved in this project and in this way in fact and through this mechanism can and will be able to make huge steps not only for this purpose but also for many other purposes which the mechanism allows. However, also on the example of my county, the example of the city of Nina, Vrsi and Privlaka is also done and signed, and in the end it is already in the process of building a large system that is valuable, the sewer system over 346 million kuna, it is without VAT and when we know the scale of what it means, which is the area and how much it actually covers the problem of water or sewerage, then I have to say that it is 102km of gravity and pressure sewers, 34 pump stations, 32km of water treatment, and that is a submarine discharge over 4.4 km, etc., so all of this should be done by 2022. This project lasted and the intention of such a project was created for about 10 years, but I say, none of these municipalities or the city were able to handle it on its own and accept such a bite financially or have had the opportunity to even start it, let alone lead to the end. That is why through European funds and all that can be achieved through quality projects where 85% are grants, so one big problem will be solved, given that this area is extremely important touristic, we know that in this area several significant tourist facilities and also very high concentration of residents, especially during the season period, much more, but thus enables quality development to continue since otherwise everything else would lead to the destruction of the natural environment and could not further develop quality in the tourism sense. When we talk about development fees, I came from the city when we introduced this development fee, then there was a project through the World Bank or the Adriatic project that we achieved the construction of a large mechanical and biological purifier for 100,000 equivalent residents and I think that the first city that we solved and biological and waste water so that the release into the sea was actually technical water and in this way we made a major step as far as the city itself was concerned, but we see it not enough because then it was not enough, the value of that project was about 11 million euros, however, as a large city that had a large water consumption, then it was possible from 1.63 kn/m3 to finance but certain parts of the city could not be quality solved and covered by that project, however, it was very specific in the first mentioned, it was possible right through this agglomeration system which would cover then and the other parts of the western part of the city, but it was primarily related to the main part of the city, the capital of the capital, which is also important to the capital of the capital, which was the capital of the capital, which was the capital of the capital of the capital, which was the capital, and the key part of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital, and the capital of the capital of the capital, and the capital, and the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital, that the capital of the capital, and the capital of the capital of the capital. So this way we see that, with these amendments to the law, with the application of it, it will really be able to cover the entire area of the city in a broader way, so also agglomerations beyond, and in this way it will be achieved that really this coastal part where it was very pronounced, that we stopped being a city on black pits, which is very important, so since '94. The year it started, we basically picked up over 90% of all wastewaters in the drain system. So we welcome all these changes and those proposals that you have appreciated by discussing these laws, and I hope that most cities and municipalities, along with this, will really be able to achieve as high-quality development as possible, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143377	I thank my colleague, Peric. Next debate, respected counterpart Josip Križanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143378	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. This Water Act prescribes the management of water, which is made up of all operations undertaken by the Republic of Croatia, the local and regional self-government units to achieve the water management objectives. Ensuring sufficient amounts of healthable water for human consumption, for different economic persons the needs or protection of people, their property from floods and other forms of harmful action. I thank the Ministry and the Croatian Waters for understanding and respecting a lot of proposals and remarks by parliamentary representatives of the public between the two readings that have now been implemented in the final proposals of all three of these water laws, and in particular the proposals of the Commission for the assessment of damages from elementary disasters. However, let me, as chairman of the commission, have my own few observations that should be mentioned and related to this law, so because of the threat of human life and property due to floods in the Republic of Croatia, it was important to manage the risks of floods through legislation and to mitigate adverse consequences. It was also necessary to implement measures to protect or prevent the use of future prevention and spilling of rivers from their troughs. The goal of regular maintenance and maintenance of water flow and the formation of loads of application is to change the flow of the river and increase the erosion of the coast. The work of maintaining the depth of the waterway covers the removal of excess application at individual locations. The exploitation of sand and gravel has so far been minimal because, in accordance with the Nature Protection Act, it was necessary to establish the consent of the competent authorities, to conduct an impact study on nature, while respecting the conditions and measures of nature protection, in other words, was not allowed. I again thank the legislation for respecting the proposals of the Committee on Agriculture and the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters and for the possibility of exploiting sand and gravel now. The provision has been reformed so that now the permission to exploit gravel and sand is prescribed as a rule and the prohibition as an exception. This removes the public perception of the general ban on exploitation as a rule and the main interference with legal exploitation... and the law is exactly the opposite of allowing the exploitation of gravel and sand, especially where it ensures the flow of water flow-side profiles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is proposed that public water goods which make up the area where the source of water is intended for human consumption of betrayal at least 10 m3 as well as the space necessary for its physical protection be managed by the public water service provider. In addition, the work of Croatian Waters is prescribed, the management of projects for the construction of regulatory and security buildings and the management of construction and construction projects for the foundations of melioration disposal, since they are the same unquestionably part of the basic activities of Croatian waters. I also welcome the provision of legislation which has so far been changed to the provision that the Institute is now established as a scientific water institution. The Institute will have the powers of monitoring and laboratory analysis as well as the upgrade of Croatian Waters for additional safety of the population, so we must not forget certain gaps that occurred before, so right now there is the role of the institute to miss out on them precisely because of its upgrade. He will make strategies, water management plans as well as flood risk management plans, will carry out scientific research from the area and will be financed from the Croatian Water budget, from the burden of water compensation revenues. The Water Services Act regulates the establishment of service areas by delivery of 2 million cubic units whose JLS founders are in the service area, thus achieving the investment capacity of the supplier as well as financial and technical stability, so the integration of 190 small local water pipelines from 30 unique suppliers is prescribed. The amendment of the law in the second reading provides for an exception to the basic criteria for the establishment of a service area, the exception concerns the possibility of establishing a service area and, by other criteria, the annual supply of water from 800 to million m3 of water and meeting the affordability criteria at the present maximum 1.5% and the future water prices of up to 3%. The aim of that provision is to enable exceptional institutionalisation and independence for a small part of medium size public suppliers. A change has been made that allows for the free integration of public water service suppliers, this legal possibility will eventually lead to further integration of the production of more powerful public suppliers covering larger service areas. So it wasn't a good situation so far when we had about 130 small local water lines, they couldn't manage the area well because of weak financial capacity and very little or nothing were invested in infrastructure development, it wasn't normal for the local self-government unit, for example, to pave the street with a new layer of asphalt after the construction of the coastal sanitary sewerage without replacing the depletional water pipe that shot each month. The water supplier was never financially willing to replace such a pipe located in its core assets but sent an offer to the local self-government unit by which JLS should finance 80% of the pipe replacement and 20% of the supplier from the jLS development fee, so JLS financed all 100%. After that, if JLS didn't accept it, the water supplier then, after the asphalting, cut a new asphalt and patched the pipe every month without a problem, so I'm curious who's crazy. It allows access to all JLSs to the core capital of a public supplier in the service area and it is also good that all important decisions will be made by a double majority in the public delivery parliaments, thus guaranteeing evenly the development of all JLS by changing the way the administration is appointed in a long reading and by a double majority due to greater democracy in the elections. And it's better than it's ever been before, not like it's been so long since one big city has over 50% stakes, it's got a monopoly on all the other JLSs in the whole county. Correction of the time limit for the charge for illegal connection to public water supply and disposal systems from 10 to 5 years ago has also been made in order to comply with the rules of the general law for obtaining without a base. As regards the Water Economy Financing Act, the most important newspaper between the two readings is that the public water service provider can choose whether to introduce a development fee at the same level or at different heights in the service area but there is no possibility of that choice if one or more JLS in writing makes a reasoned statement of the compensation management initiative. In this case, the compensation must be introduced in 3 parts as a common part of the development fee, a specific part of the development fee and a solid part of the development fee. I'm asking the Secretary of State again, I didn't get the answer, I don't get it, I'm left with a dilemma, can rich local self-government units ask for this solidarity part of the fee to be reduced to a minimum? So he doesn't need it, he won't need this development fee, but it's for others, designed for other units of local self-government, and if it's going to go down to a minimum, then I'm wondering if in that case the effect of such a solidarity fee makes any sense because big ones pay for small ones. This law and between the two readings has experienced many positive changes and numerous remarks and suggestions have been respected, thanks to it, for all, including all our remarks and laws are good and I will support them, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143379	Thank you. There's a replica on your exhibit, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143380	Thank you. Coli Križanić, you stated in your debate that a water institute will be formed whose obligation will be to deal with scientific research, the adoption of a strategy and water management plans. How important water tells us the following information, say for the production or cultivation of kilograms of tomatoes, it takes 1,000 liters of water, 4600 liters of water for a kilo of chicken, how vulnerable water tells us that one liter of oil or gram of pesticide can pollute one million liters of water, water consumption per country, per day per person in Gambia is 4.5 liters, in Croatia 150 liters, in the US 500 liters, and the assumption is that it takes 50 liters per person per day. In the 20th century, water consumption increased 10 times, and all this data tells us how important the water is and therefore... to take care of them all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143381	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143382	I thank you for this information you have brought, but the Institute of Water will be a scientific institution which, we have heard here already some debates, which will not take over the role of this part of the work from Croatian Waters, but will only be an upgrade to Croatian Waters and will work a step above that and most importantly this scientific part, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143383	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, following is counterpart Josip Djakic, please welcome fellow Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Today, when we talk about the final proposal of the Water Act, it is necessary to say that it is a good thing that, in Article 110 of the same law, a changed formulation and erasure is an explicit ban in the very chapter on the exploitation of gravel and sand, a ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand, but it has only been transferred to Article 3 where that ban is defined as prohibiting the exploitation of gravel and sand from non-renewable beds in water streams and other surface water bodies in orderly inundation areas, in unedited inland areas unless the rules on mining are regulated differently. What am I saying? That Article 3 of Article 110, I would agree to prohibit the exploitation of gravel and sand only in orderly inundated areas and I will give for example our Jarun in Zagreb, Bundek or some accumulations that are now arranged and which can no longer be subject to any exploitation or further editing. All unsettled areas need to be arranged and brought to the point that it would be a tourist attraction especially in rural areas, in areas along our rivers where life is actually forgotten, and nature guards found it appropriate to protect butterflies, bugs, snails and who knows everything they don't. This kind of protection of nature is causing indescribable damage, a 10-year ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand from our rivers has contributed in many ways to what the conclusion of the State Commission on damages to elementary disasters has contributed to us in many flooded areas and the suffering of the population and their property. In order to allow for the exploitation of gravel and sand, an appropriate assessment of environmental impact or an assessment of the acceptability of the ecological network should be carried out in accordance with specific regulations, except in cases of protection of human, animal, material and cultural goods and the environment in flooded areas, the removal of the effects of floods in cases of haste and irresponsible enforcement measures against flood defence. So it's excluded that an environmental impact study must be done according to special measures and regulations only when floods occur and have been made. Instead of acting preventively to prevent floods from happening, to clean up 2 metres of piles or 3 metres of piles in our rivers and to realize the absorption potential of our riverbeds. With this we open the waterways, and I'll only tell you that once the wateriness of the Drava River was from Danube to Botov in Koprivnica. The waterway was all the way along, today it is 16 km from Danube to Osijek, even the winter port of sand and gravel piles is closed and hardly any tourist cruise can sail into Osijek port. The gravel that was being transferred to free the port in Osijek was being worked in such a way as to extract from one place and transfer it to the same river so that water would bring it back to where it was removed. And these are the Croatian absurds that we have allowed and for 10 years we have allowed that there is no economic activity exploiting gravel and sand from our rivers, and we have imported it from Republika Srpska i.e. from BiH, our gravel and sand, from Serbia, from the Danube and from Hungary. So 3 neighbouring states on the Sava, the Uni, in the Drava sold Croatian gravel and sand and the price of it all in 10 years exceeds 5 billion kuna and it is a disaster for the Croatian state. If they took the customs crossings of the trucks that drove the gravel on corridor 5C, then they would really see the economic effects of destroying the law that prevented the exploitation and cleaning of the troughs of our rivers. Are we going to call it exploiting gravel and sand or are we going to call by cleaning up our application baskets that have come? No matter what they call it, whether they combine it with an economic activity that fills the state budget through concessions, through the sale of gravel and sand, through VAT, through construction into buildings that are built, into the roads that are built, into waterways and sewers that must have a sandy background and.../incomprehensible/... and therefore there is not enough sand in Osijek to be introduced from Serbia. Imagine what damage we have done to the Croatian state and budget of the Republic of Croatia for 10 years. And today, when we decided by intervention in the first reading that there was no ban in the first paragraph of Article 110, we put it in article 3, we put it in article 2, that an environmental impact study must be made by special regulations except in cases of protection, except for cases of protection when you are already filling sand bags imported from Albania or Austria, and I don't know where or when the haiaries came from, then you don't need a study when you're cleaning up what's left behind the flood in that area. Well, it's a disaster. The amendment I have prepared and instructed to remove it, since there is not one protection of nature or environmental protection that would be a hindrance to saving human lives and property and cultural goods in the preventive action of cleaning up the troughs of our rivers, means millions of cubics of water fit in the crusts of our rivers when the gravel is removed. If it had been cleaned these 10 years, it would have been dry water and Drava to Botov and Sava would have been all the way across the water, and Una would have been watery and Neretva would have been watery. The economic activity on all these rivers would be huge, billions of kuna would be committed to the Croatian state budget, so we damaged it by our inaction. And that's what I absolutely can't accept, that even now, hiding under other forms again forbids the purification of the crusts of our rivers and bans the waterway which is clearly defined by last year's convention as it must look, in which times must last and how it must be maintained. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Liaison has an explicit task of implementation, maintenance of the waterways and without nature protectors should issue an order and an order on the cleaning of waterways such as giving a road-cleaning order when snow-based applications are large then 5cm on certain parts of the road can begin cleaning, so the cleaning of our rivers without specific regulations and rules, without studying environmental impacts that actually prevent economic activity, prevents the development of the economy, prevents the development of shipping on rivers, prevents the development and endangers life on our rivers, all residents who live alongside them. Both in Metkovic and Virovitica and in Jasenovac and in any place on Sava, Uni, Drava, Neretva. This law unless the amendments that we have prepared are accepted, unless the most favourable solutions are found, remove obstacles that are terribly difficult and cost a fortune. Where an entrepreneur would require an environmental impact study, i.e. an assessment of the acceptability to the ecological network would never have been done by any radio and should therefore not be applied to the maintenance of the waterways, it must not be applied to the cleaning of the troughs in order to increase the absorption of our rivers in the reception of the coastal waters in elemental disasters. This must not stand in this law otherwise we have not taken a positive step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143385	Thank you, too. We have replicas. First up, she's a colleague of Jelkovac's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I absolutely agree with your debate, I come from the state of Karlovac, which is on four rivers where we have suffered a number of flood damage over the past few years. And the fact is that in those years the rivers were bluer than that, in smaller rainfalls than they were in earlier years, which means that the problem is that the rivers are not being cleaned. I think that even though I am in favour of environmental protection, the principle of proportionality should be applied whether it is greater benefit or harm than not to clean up the riverbeds. We're also aware, and we've brought here the Law on the Construction of the Cruises in the area, the land area of the Kupa River, and I think these projects are huge in terms of finance, and this would be much less.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143387	Thank you, thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143388	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. You have well defined that the construction of the embankment and flood protection must first of all be the cleaning of the trough. The cord of consciousness in the nominal that it was in before it grew a meter, two or three. In order for these dikes to be built, the financial resources of the state budget or Croatian waters are necessary. They can be derived from this material, which has been sold and from which the concession has been charged to finance in the construction of the embankment but never to the sky. If the bottom grows and you can't build a rash that will be, the river will go higher than the nominal plane of the upper part of the trough. I guess that doesn't come to anybody's mind. We're not going to build a dikes to the sky, so there's going to be a river above the settlement. I mean, that's the logic of what I mean. I believe you have terrible problems because you live on four rivers, which are our pearls but we hope there will be a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143389	Thank you. Here you go, pal Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143390	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakic, I agree fully with your debate because I am just coming from Požeko-Slavonska County, which has major flood problems. And these are exactly the obstacles in both the rivers and other places that simply if there is no cleaning, we have exactly what we have so far. Many times I've said exactly what's more valuable, whether they're more valuable human lives, property or protection of certain butterflies, I don't know everything that's happening to us in the rivers. And so I'm asking the question, and I'm also asking that in this law that we are finally making a final solution, the right solution, and not only to do something half-way, because we are witnessing that we are currently suffering huge damage both in cities and in our villages by jeopardizing property and human lives, and so far it's been 10 years that we really haven't done anything. Let's try to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143391	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have well noticed, fellow Lucic, that there is no greater value than human life and their property. They can only be saved if we do what is necessary and necessary, and that is to clean up the troughs of our rivers and be areas where birds and butterflies will dwell. But imagine when nature guards lift up so much heat and want to protect everything, they don't bring out any nests by boat and move to another area, hide in a mouse hole, they're nowhere to be found. They don't save people or animals. And who do they lecture? Whoever finances them and dares to do that only when it's low water in summer, then they're on the beaches, then they shoot and paint birds, and when the floods come, they're gone. Where are the boats they got from the ministry? Where are the equipment they need to save?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143393	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143394	Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Djakic, is the worst when many like to make more Catholics than the Pope. So on the river, the sands were bought for years, there were lives, people lived on that river, but now the people of Letovanić and even in a certain way my Uncle's Fields, when the heavy rains are afraid of coastal waters. Why didn't these coastal waters get blue before? Or, let's say, we're all driving around this Zagreb bypass, there's that sprawl on Savi near Ivanja Rijeka, in the summer months, that Sava can be walked there. For years there was always a large pile of a few hundred or thousands of cc's of gravel, in the end with that gravel was made a section of this highway towards Varazdin to Huma na Sutla, so all this could have worked out, so I was more interested in Zagreb on Sava and sailing ships on that Sava than looking at some sand sprawl on which these flying rats are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143395	Thank you. Thank you, to the Feast Hum. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143396	Thank you very much. Well, you've defined your colleague Shuker well, in all our rivers, the level of our troughs has risen everywhere except for four kilometers on Savi where the level of the trough is lower by 2 meters than it was before. And you know why? Because half of New Zagreb was made with this gravel and sand, exploitation from the trough, and there is no such thing as a big spring, it is almost finished, the trough is now arranged and standing as it is. That's how it is in all our rivers. There's something happening that people probably don't see from the office, people haven't come to the field, they haven't looked at what islands they're like, they've been talking about in 10 years, they're turning the river, they haven't come to Neretva and they've seen what mouth is clogged and how ships can't sail anymore, and the sand in Neretva is imported from Albania.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143397	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, following is counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143398	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what I want to say about these three laws, about a package of laws that are trying to establish a new system of thinking that leads to the Republic of Croatia, and what should be done with them during the period ahead of us because the fact is that water is the foundation of life and that without water it is hard to live, and the way we've had the same in the last 30 but many years clearly shows that these three laws are definitely necessary. Already early in the morning, the debate on this law began and before, the very debate on the laws, and we heard some former ministers objecting to these laws, and the same ones, three of them here, forgot what they were doing when they were ministers. So let's say I'm also interested in how it's possible that we have a regulation on service areas that has been in place since 2014 I think that no one has abolished it, which provides for 20 service areas in which nothing has happened. How they did it is enough to look at what the text and graphic card they put on it as part of the story of service areas so you'll see here my municipality and my island are on the map in 14 service areas, and texted at 13. And for that, the ministers raised their hands and it was their responsibility. And today, of course, they've forgotten everything and everything is wrong with them and, of course, all these laws are as unnecessary. It's not like that, gentlemen, and we really need to take care of the waters in the best possible way, and I think that this ministry through these three drafts or draft laws has done what can be done at the moment, and if the system, I would say, doesn't shake to the end. Because the fact is that trying to get into what the government then wanted with these service areas and the famous Minister Jakovina was clear that when it started to form service areas, a year before some of the elections that they had some good intention and knew that something had to be done because the fact that 180 water lines of local councils or smaller ones simply cannot accomplish the tasks and tasks given to them in terms of development, in terms of water delivery and in terms of contributing to themselves and others. And of course, when they saw that it was quite a difficult ground, that there needed a lot of talks and negotiations, especially since it was about local self-government, and then it got into the space of politics and it wasn't very simple, then it was enough to bring some kind of regulation, put it out in the National Journal to publish and do nothing further waiting for others. And this government came, and with this problem, which has been tackled by one, in my opinion, a much more appropriate and better way and has tried through this Water Services Act, but also by funding the water economy, to make the most of what can be observed by the specificities of the water supply that we have on the ground. Some of us who are already part of certain regional water lines have certain experiences and can say that these intentions are good. To come up with unified solutions at the level of certain service areas, respecting both the specificities of continental Croatia and the islands and the coasts, while respecting that water is being drawn somewhere, and delivers several places and that the system needs a certain kind of cost-effectiveness so that it can upgrade itself and that it can develop. And here, through the first reading, but now and through the second reading, there have been some doubts that I think the ministry still needs to clarify a certain situation so that what happened to the government in 2015 does not happen in the application of the law. Because if it comes to this, then our debate today won't make much sense, because this is the same debate we had in 2014, at least I remember Minister Jakovina, the famous Minister of Jakovina, who strongly defended it and explained it all nicely, but he did nothing, absolutely nothing. And in this respect we don't have such a possibility, this government doesn't have such a possibility, it really has to reform this part of the law and the application of it on the ground, and there will be problems, because what local patriotism at local level is mixed with politics often leads to solutions that aren't perhaps the best then. And of course everyone wants to be with someone, but everyone likes to be in good company, and there will be water and service areas where there will be problems with those who aren't good, who can't function or who need to whisper behind them all who are bad. And of course, there will be a huge role played by local self-governments who through this law have been given the opportunity to influence the formation of service areas, to influence the policy on which such waterways will operate and to make certain decisions through the double majority system. We are already passing through the regional waterway, at least when I talk about my island Rab and the municipalities from which I come, through the regional waterway of the Croatian Primorje, the southern branch. And so far, we have done a lot with such a regional water pipeline having a very small budget even smaller than all the smaller ones that he will now unite because he had nothing to finance and he had to carry on investments, especially those financed from eu funds. And such a possibility that we are given through this law to strengthen all together is good. But we have to take care of the water lines that remain parts of that big water line. Are we going to have the same favor? Will we be able to solve the quickly determined problems that will arise for us? Will we have employees who will know? What about co-financing? We see here the story of fees, development fees, the special part, the joint and the solidarity that it brings us and how to set it right. What about all those problems that are daily followed by local operatives, which is usually the crack of water on some street or road or with some connection to the house, etc., how much will it be possible to do on such things, will these facilities continue to operate within these waterways or will everything be centralized again at the breadth of a large service area? Therefore, through this water service story, it is necessary to see first and foremost positive in the sense that it really has a good intention and that the water price is levelled and that in some ways we can achieve all those projects that are important to us in the water supply and disposal systems but that we do not happen to start or start imposing our solutions on those who will not be the majority and this system of double majority brings a certain level of problem, because who tried it, and I think we are already in the experience when we talk about this regional plumbing, clearly knows that there may be some problems. And I'm not saying out of my sight that a lot of what's written in theory doesn't have to mean exactly the same thing as solutions. As far as this section is concerned about which colleagues really spoke about the exploitation of gravel, it is necessary to achieve the airworthiness of Croatian rivers and waterways because it is not normal for another country to have a deeper crust on the same river than the troughs that affect our coasts in the same river, and that should be dealt with in some way. And I think it goes in the direction that in this respect after many, many years when it was forbidden to try to find an acceptable solution and not yet devastate nature itself or to protect the environment as much as possible. As for all these others, I say the proposals that these three laws make, I think all praises are valuable but the accent is certainly on fees, in service areas and, of course, in this extraction of gravel, with everything that allows these three billings. And I think that after the same adoption, there's a period of implementation. We've seen that after this regulation five years ago, we didn't implement it, we raised it here from 90 days to 6 months, I'm not sure 6 months will be enough, 6 months isn't small, but it's not much. And these five years have been kind of a warning to us that we really don't have that since we're already, we have a regulation in force, we have to bring back the next one that's going to stand again for a while and nothing's going to happen. There must be the ministry's activity large but also the thinking of local leaders in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143399	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143400	Comrade Boric, when you have no arguments, then you always mention the former government, you will probably still remember the former Racan government. But what is the fact that this law establishes the Institute of Water and extracts from Croatian waters a laboratory in which Croatian waters have invested significant resources is extracting scientific potential which will definitely impoverish Croatian waters. And my question was why is it done and who is trying to get caught up in the position of the director of that institute. And all of this contrary to what your government and your prime minister say you've reduced the number of agencies, that you've reduced this and that you're establishing something new now that is not necessary because in Croatian waters it has been and should have continued. Especially what happened between the two readings saying HDZ is doing the same thing again, making love to its people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143401	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143402	Thank you very much. Dear Mrsic, we have already responded to this part of the Water Institute, I think he has been in law for ten years. Whether it will continue to form or remain in the status of the regulation as you have brought in as a minister, which for five years means in force, I don't know, it's at the ministry, that's what I said I expect to implement what's written in the law and not the law theoretically only with exist. And as the former ministers think, your example is very obvious, the 67-year-old means that you've called for a referendum now, in 2014, you've made such a provision to retire at 67 years of age and you've signed without a problem at your current request for a referendum. Or maybe you wanted to, I don't know if you signed but mostly... Okay, then I apologize if you haven't, but you're certainly against it now given everything we've said over the past few months. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that forgetting, amnesia and everything else is up to you, it's not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143403	Thank you. The next replica is counterpart Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143404	Dear colleague, you mentioned water, plumbing, regional water lines. For example, in our country where the water supply draws more than 30 million cc's of water a year, we have 60% of our losses. So I hope this will contribute to these losses being greatly reduced, because how can we expect to have a lower price of water if it actually draws so much, and the loss is too much. So I hope this encourages everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143405	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143406	Thank you very much. My colleagues Perić, as well as this law, all three actually have the intention to introduce several order meanings in the whole water management system and one of the intention is to establish the same level of service in large service areas as much as possible, but in order for that level to be reduced and these problems that you have listed, means great water losses because the fact is that we have well-functioning water pipelines and can achieve cost-effectiveness, one of them is from my island that crosses this level of 800 to millions of water cubes delivered, and now I'm not sure if it falls under this bill, given that it delivers 1,200,000 no, or we'll continue to leave some doubts that we have to clear here so that it would be clear to me that the secretary of state would answer that question, and it's precisely a good intention for us to support the government but also to implement it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143407	Thank you. Next is colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143408	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Boric, 2013, 2014 and 2015 was passed a law to establish.../incomprehensible/... amount for water management on unbuilt building land. Do you think that, personally, it's not right for all of us who have building land and that the coefficient for not building land is 50 limes per metre square. Here, please, just for a little while, what do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143410	Thank you very much. That was the concern of these governments back then, unfortunately this government has to fix it too and I hope you'll fix it. The construction land that is not built 50 limes per square really gives large amounts to many companies who wanted to or wanted to invest and we come into the fact or the problem that local self-governments have a municipal fee of 0.28, or much less, that they change these relationships from situation to situation, that we have a story with taxes on unencumbered agricultural land and that these provisions are interpreted each in their own way, but in the main ones go to the economy and the owners. And there's a good attitude to be taken, and I hope here's what I'm saying is that the ministry, that the secretary of state, too, has noted it to see what to do with such fees, because we're neatly being sent this fee for the payment of the water contribution, and it's not really supposed to be like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143411	Thank you. Next is counterpart Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143412	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Boric, well, you've elaborated all three laws, but here I am, the Water Act of Interest, and you yourself have concluded that neighboring countries are pulling out gravel and sand and I have to stress selling it to us. And ours, our gravel and the sand that comes into the holes that they pull out, they sell to us. And it's absurd of the absurds that happens in our country, that both Serbia in the Danube and BiH and the Union and the Sava and Hungary in the Drava equally work meters from the border of the vacuum gets to the hole, what happens, what goes on in the hole, so that extra material on our side goes in there, it's out again, and it's sold to us again. And so 10 years in a row and we don't see it. Our professional public, our services, our Croatian waters, our ministries have all been blind for 10 years, 5 billion kunas across the border are carrying our gravel and nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143413	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143414	My colleague Djakić agrees with you and this is a problem that this government has caught up with and I see that they have made and there is still a little bit to be fixed, but I think we are coming to the conclusion that in 10 years we have all been under the pressure of many associations dealing with environmental protection, but not just on this problem, anything that you go anywhere to touch in nature comes to you at some point to become inexhaustible. And I can understand governments that are under such pressure, but a reform like this reform in the water economy must have the power to implement, and I hope that here is the Secretary of State and Minister, but the government as a whole will implement what it says here, but even with the addition of what you've given as an amendment. So, to be clear, because it's not normal for a neighbouring country to have a deeper trough on the same river, it doesn't harm the environment, and we don't know 20, 50 or 100 m difference in our shallows. I think we should welcome that from this government as a solution, but still with the work done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143415	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143416	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with my colleague Borić that it is a great illogical that the river brings gravel and sand we cannot extract it, we have a problem with floods, we have to defend from floods bring gravel and sand from other parts. The 5C corridor was built with gravel and sand from Sava, and it was imported from Bosnia. There's a lot of money spilled over because of some illogicality in the law that no one's going to change. And what's done now is a little shift, which I welcome, but it's still not enough, because you have a series of craftsmen from Stara Gradiška, Orubica, Davor, Slavonski Šamec, who had 5.6 employees, who had machines and now it stands, the mockery is there, failed instead of allowing the name on those microlocations to continue to extract gravel and sand, to have its gravel and sand and that people have salaries. That way we just drive people out of these border areas, I don't think we should do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143417	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143418	Thank you very much. You will not believe this, but I agree with you, and I think that we have established a communication debate on laws and that the government or the ministry understood what it would do to them, no matter what the problem would be, no matter what happens after the law is passed, claiming that we do not know what we are doing and what we are destroying, etc., because it has proved to date what the cost is, how much income is lost, and how much damage it is to people's lives, health and everything else that needs to be dealt with in the way that the nature of the laws and the will of those who are operatives, and these are ministers, assistants, state secretaries and all of them, that those people you talk about finally have their jobs and that they are doing their job for the benefit of everyone and of course to themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143419	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143420	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about very important laws which, in three laws, means that we have united from water-service areas, development fees, new institutions within, for water, means very important laws and should be discussed and any legislative shift, of course it is acceptable if it facilitates investment, water-based, water-service areas why it does not accept this if it means good. But then there are other questions that I would like to talk about, and here's my colleague Djakic now talking about the use of the gravel we import, which affects both the meanings of river flows and floods and maintenance, so these are the things we need to talk about. But when we talk about water, with everything we say, we must not forget that the first thing we need to do is protect water, we must preserve it. Here's a little earlier when my colleague Djakic and colleague were talking about gravel, now the minister would say you're talking nonsense, so he told me when I said we needed water to protect. You know, to him when he says Neretva has the poison, that there's an increase in the number of tumors down there, that there's a sign of pollution in Mostar he says I can't do it, I don't care. But he does care very much when we have a problem with national employment, Krka, we have a competition where it's very simple to solve this problem where the person with professional experience is Dr. Science, two years defender on the first line of defense, but get to the HNS and HDZ person who has two IDs at the same time. So I wouldn't talk about it, I'd go back to the water. Waters are public good, we are the richest in the EU with drinking water over 27 thousand square meters per capita per year we have water, we have to protect them. We got into trouble, we're not protecting the karst areas, we're working against them like they're dumps. So let's say I mention the Lečevica Waste Management Center, which is in the karst area. Wherever there's a drop of fat and anything that ends up in the river. So we have a problem with the Adriatic, which we are witnessing to the area of the Split swimming pool or Žrnovnica which we must use these capacities and other sources. The problem is that the Adriatic is polluted whenever it rains and I don't understand the criteria that set out why it will be in the middle of the karst area of the Waste Management Center. We must protect by law, Slovenia has gone the farthest. First of all, we must make it possible for us to have clean water and to keep it safe. So we gave four of the strongest sources in the concession. The government was silenced when the concession law was changed here I warned that it was not changing, that it could be transferred to a concession law without a new competition to another company or institution. That's what's been done now, so it went to our source's side, very important. Before Cetina left. So a lot's gone. Here I am looking at the source of Cetina went to the side of the hand. However, I would talk about water protection and water rights. It has, it must not be the right means so much commercialized that the state raises its hands from it as it gave 50 years of concession in 2015 to the government of Zoran Milanovic, a full 37 seconds after he left, offshore to some company from the US source of Cetina, for 50 years. Five thousand kunas pay that amount annually. We need to preserve that water and it has to be common, I mean it has to be public good, there's no exception, there can be no one privileged to have, if there's money he'll have water and he'll get a big extra profit and someone else will be, he won't have a right to water. We are now public, Mrs. Vidovic is, she held the stands where 6% of the people in the Republic of Croatia were indicated then, the household does not have drinking water. So we have in the Dalmatian Zagora, looking at Cetina, looking at the Krk that we don't keep, because what happens to Krka is a disaster, I mean I was literally motor oil or anything that doesn't get into that river that affects the National Park of Krka, and with Plitvice Lakes where the sewerage is open, we don't store water for future generations. We can't take the future of our children, we can't give someone a concession for 100 years for 5,000 kuna a month. And a liter of water in a bottle is more expensive than a liter of gasoline at the gas stations. So we have to, it doesn't have to be the exclusive right of individuals and the commercial use of water, we have to protect every man's right to water. I'd like to ask you once again that the VAT on the delivery of water from China, if there was no VAT. You're so much, I know by this law, now you're going to say like there's no gravel, you're going to say don't speak. I have a duty and a right to warn that the VAT on water delivery, that it is an urgent must by the Government and you are a respected secretary if you can through the Government that it is a human right and water we must exclusively have all citizens' rights. I'm sorry, here's a number of messages I got this morning because people are angry about reacting from that area of the minister and from the Neretva area down, from the Ploca where he came from, probably from the Ploč, as it's called, that they're angry with him and his, there's an increase in the number of tumors in that area. And warn him, secretaries, you're more in that ecological sphere about gas, nitrogen and these toxic things, about the refrigerator, about the waste, and so you can warn the minister to protect people, that his duty is to protect people and the environment. And if there's poison in the Neretva River, the poison of any kind that it's a disaster if he says I can't do anything, there's nothing in Mostar and there's bilateral relations, there are reactions, there must be an answer, he has to look for opportunities but he says here to his colleagues that I can influence you, right, ordinary citizens, which is a bad message because there's an increased number of tumors in that area. Once again, Minister, i.e. Secretary, tell the minister, I'm sorry what he's gone for, I'm going to speak on behalf of the club, but I'm going to only say messages, and we colleagues and colleagues, that's what I started today, here's what constitutional legal experts, people who deal with the waters, are going to make a proposal that has to sign 1/5 parliamentary deputies to come into the process of amending the Constitution, if Slovenia could protect the water as a public good and through other sublegal acts to regulate it, I don't see why it wouldn't make it much richer, Slovenia is richer by water but it's 5, 6, we're the richest in the EU by drinking waters. I call upon you that it is our obligation to change the Constitution and make drinking water public and not exclusively the right of individuals. Otherwise, millions and 600,000 signatures have been collected in the EU, parliament has accepted this as a public good rather than a commercial good. Here I would ask my fellow MPs to be unique about this proposal and ask you to preserve the karst areas, protect the rivers from isor to mouth and not be a karst area if my Dalmatian Zagora, a waste disposal can. And we will oppose Lečevica to infinity. A large part of the island won't be able to use the drinking water, if it's poisoned, see what the Marine is, tell us here, dear secretary, what about the Marines? It's the same CGO in Lečevica, which people have problems with. I would once again warn you, distinguished secretary of... The caves from the highway that directly affect the Adriatic, which is drunk by the Splits, hey, half a million people, of 300,000 in the season in a million people drinking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Adhesive pits from the highway enter the Adriatic directly. There's been an increase in the number of diseases because that's probably the reason. There is no water in Split every month for several days. Drinks of water to use for a drink. Let's protect first what we have, these legislative changes may bring good things or when running for EU projects because many less water-based areas of service do not have enough money or resources of their own income, this is probably how they will. So what's good is to change and accept but it's crucial to protect water, drinking water.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143421	Thank you. The next individual debate is a debate from counterpart Arsen Bauk, please welcome colleague Buk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. These three laws have seen some changes on the basis of the proposal in the first reading of which the MPs have also made, even a few proposals from opposition MPs, which can be welcomed. Among those proposals that were not accepted, unfortunately and perhaps not unfortunately, is my proposal concerning the definition of the island as a service area. Although, of course, I am not satisfied that this proposal has not been accepted, I must say that I am satisfied with the argument, namely the government's argument that they are greater service areas, that it is easier in this case to ensure that water prices are affordable, which I would, of course, understand as an indirect promise of reducing the water price when it is done on Brač and on Hvar and on other islands and from the speech of the body of the proposing representatives, then I can accept it in such a way, and then here is one good news and I will closely monitor the implementation of it. I'm not some particular advocate of the structure in local water lines now if they don't have some good arguments and some of the events that happened a few years ago even give for the right to be a little more careful and not to accept all the proposals that come from the local level entirely. Therefore, it is something that I can support and accept as an explanation if it is done and respected. Secondly, due to the need for water, due to the special need in the tourist season, because of the great tourist facilities we have on those islands that are users of the river Cetina, as colleagues of Bulj mentioned, this ecological problem and we are concerned, so from land and from Omis to the island of Brač, having 4 pipes, they continue to the island of Hvar. Talks with local self-government leaders often mention the need and laying the fifth water pipe across the Brač canal due to the need remains also for Hvar, of course, because of the increased needs involved and meeting the needs of the tourist season. I absolutely hope that this will be taken into account and that the fifth pipe will find its place in the priorities of the competent institutions involved. Given that the explanation I received from the government in writing here at the plenary session right now, I will not submit an amendment to Article 7, I will only follow the fulfillment of that promise, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143423	Thank you, too. The next colleague, Miro Bulj, is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, finally, please welcome fellow Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143424	Thank you very much to the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary with his associates. It's about three important laws. This morning we actively participated in the name of the club, I'm sorry that it's not the minister here, what was only in the morning when the cameras were here so that you could not respond to what the parliamentary representatives were looking for, and not ask for it, and I'd say a lot if I'm sorry about what the Minister of the Environment was doing, we have to protect the environment from the Minister of the Environment, in this way his arrogance, his arrogance, and we all know that we have a huge problem with these three laws that have good things, and that's what I've said, and I've mostly said these areas that are increasing now. which reduces their number, but is increasing, mainly in EU projects' bids, reduces the number of employees, so that in those areas, their own component of EU candidateing means, projects are likely to be positive, but if negative, it is variable and, of course, the issue will be seen. However, it is my pleasure exclusively because the minister does not show the will to protect the environment, and it is mainly in the case of very, very important issues that have occurred in Herzegovina, in Mostar, this waste that appears, which of course reaches into the valley of Neretva where, where the minister's answer was unreasonable to me, raised his hands, simply attached itself, and said that it is not his problem, that he cannot solve it, and we know that the increase and number of tumors, I have followed it, I read, experts warn of this poison that has appeared, pointed out that Mr. Dobrović, however, obviously the minister does not care, he does not need to see the chairs or opposition, but I do not think that the Minister of the environment must be heard, the Minister of the environment must be the one who is fighting for sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia, and especially when it comes to the Waters, then the Minister should not look at the chairs or opposition is simply the opposition to hear what the question. Here I have been for the past months, years, warning of harmful projects in the areas, meaning Dalmatian Burn, the karst area, and I think we're tribbing, I suggest we look at Slovenia that has gone further into the protection of the karst area, in the protection of rivers from sources to mouth, in the protection of water to, of course, lead to public well-being of drinking water, does nothing exclusively right, so I am expressing dissatisfaction with so far, so I will literally tell the privatisations of our sources, the Law on concessions that here last year transferred one concession right to another concession company, which meant it was targeted to become strangers of the owner of and of this source, Cetina, the Holy Rock and other sources that have gone, we simply have to protect our waters, and above all ecologically preserve them. I mean, I'm a witness to how many splendor pits from the highways that affect the Adriatic directly, I'd ask you to look at it when there's no minister who doesn't care at all about the subject, he's important to have cameras here and that he shows too much of his knowledge is that he, but I'd like to take a little walk out of the tower of light, so I'm that, I know exactly the wild dumps, and you won't let Lečevica pass what you think we're going to do, unfortunately the secretary liked to tell you if the minister has a tail he's got no cameras, so I'm not going to let you go this way to what's on Mariščina, to endanger the water, and then these laws are unnecessary if we pollinate, he has to protect, every drop in Poddinarje, Dalmatian Zagora, Skradina, Ravni Kotar, straight Cotari is coming back in the water and now we's out of the Spanish. Look at the Split swimming pool, so we have to protect Cetina, we have to protect Krka, we have to protect those sources because these laws are pointless if we don't protect and preserve our waters, so who wants to keep it from being preserved, to be the economic center in the sred of the debris, we have to pass the Break Protection Act. I repeat, every drop that pops into the debris ends up in the water ends in our glass. If we have anything And if we can [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Bit... [[Intruder:...kolea Bulj]] It's water. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143425	Thank you. And now, on behalf of Mr. Mario Shiljeg, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President HS, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, above all, I would like to thank everyone together for a very constructive debate and, at the outset, to point out that I am pleased to have a public opinion on this debate that welcomed the necessity of reform in the water services sector. I am particularly pleased with the announcements of parts of the parliamentary clubs that have been retained so far, and today they have joined the majority, or expressed their will to support the adoption of this package of laws. He would refer briefly to a few questions that have been raised in today's debate. First of all, the right to water and its definition as constitutional law should be stressed that the right to water in our applicable legislation is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as an integral part of the right to life per Article. 20. and rights to a healthy environment by art. 70. The courts in the Republic of Croatia recognise the right to water as an executive of these two rights, so protect and so protect the courts, and ultimately, so the right to water is interpreted by the authorities of the state administration. However, the right to water-respected MPs and MPs should not be uncritically recognised as the right to free water service. In such a case, and the risks are not small, the whole water service model based on a complex and expensive infrastructure which has its maintenance costs and its depreciation and for which an economic price must be paid, the whole system would collapse under good intentions. However, the Water Services Act also determines the minimum amount of water to be made available, which is 50 liters per capita and per day even when the water service is not available. It is also important to note that the real problems of socially sensitive and vulnerable groups are solved through the social price of water services and the Water Services Act, which is at least 60% of the full tariff. Today there has been a lot of talk about the losses in the water supply system, yes, it is one of the biggest problems facing the ministry and Croatian water today, and these losses have reached a level of 50 and 50%, respectively. It should be pointed out that they are not only due to the non-accounting of system depletion and generally technical reasons, but also the consequences of the unlawful association that generally took place in the environments where public delivery employees were accomplices to illegal accession and where this was widely and tactfully tolerated. Resolve that part of the loss is a major challenge. The Water Services Act provides compensation for an illegal connection which amounts to a water price of 1.5 for 5 years back. The protection of water in the karst area was also spoken, karst areas are not mentioned separately in the Waters Act, but it should be said that the law quite successfully regulates the issue of sanitary protection zone under Article 103 and also gives authority to the regulations of ministers and decisions of units of local self-government on the protection of water origins for drinking specific offices of issues related to infringements. The question has been asked, will the Water Services Act automatically lead to the full rationalisation of the system? Of course not, but we believe that this law is the first step towards achieving this rationalization. The proposer opposed attempts to enable a multi-member public delivery administration that would then burden the price of water. We also opposed attempts to create a water rental to use the source in favour of the local self-government home unit because this would also lead to an increase in water prices, and this is not the goal of this law, but as we clearly pointed out the water price affordability. The rationalisation will depend heavily on the awareness of public suppliers to establish a rational internal structure and that is, in their autonomous decision, but once the benchmarking or measurement of business efficiency is established and a new methodology for determining the price of water services through an independent regulator is adopted, this same independent regulator will be able to act to keep the water price within the limits of rational business. A few more words about the service areas. In individual debates, a large amount of 2 million cubic cubic metres as the lower limit of establishing service areas is quite problematic. This border of 2 million cubic metres is adapted to opportunities in Croatia, why, because 4/5 of the water is delivered by suppliers that have 2 million cubic meters and more. With regard to the exceptions we proposed, the exception of 800,000 to a million m3 of water was guided by three principles. First, the number of exceptions should be reduced to the minimum possible measure. Not more than 5 of them, that supplier already today, means that which enters this criterion has a affordable water price, which is up to 1.5 of the net income available and the third condition was that tomorrow after the construction of the water-communal infrastructure through projects that are now being implemented will also have a affordable water service price, up to 3% of the net income available. Expansion beyond the millions of cubic metres of water would bring down the financial capacity for integration in larger service areas, and on the other hand, the descent of the border below 800,000 cubic metres would lead to a new 14 public suppliers that would be the exception to integration. The comparisons for Hungary, our neighbouring and friendly country, which by population number, means there are approximately 2%, 2 times more inhabitants than Croatia has, after the implementation of their reform there are 42 water service suppliers, and we with twice as many inhabitants should not allow us to have more than our neighbours have. The question has also been asked by the Water Institute, so it should be both clearly and loudly highlighted. No phantom institute, provisions of the 2009 Water Act on the possibility of setting up a water institute, is set up by this law to take over the first step activities of monitoring surface groundwater for which so far not all the capacities that Croatia has at its disposal are exploited. In this sense, the main water-economic laboratory of Croatian Waters becomes the core of the institute. In the second round, the Institute will take over the work of developing expert bases for strategic water management planning. The business of the institute is very important to stress, it will not burden the state budget at all. It is intended to provide for the financing of the institute by internal redistribution of revenue from water charges that are normally collected for the purposes of carrying out the activities undertaken by this Institute. Let me say from the position of a university teacher who teaches in environmental studies, to say that it is a noble intention that goes towards greater efficiency in protecting our waters, and to ensure greater efficiency in protecting our waters, especially the karst waters we are talking about today, the first assumption is to establish a quality monitoring of these waters. We need to know what's going on in our underground, what's going on in our underground, what's going on in our underground, what's going on in our water quality so that in time we can prevent us from being a country that can say that the third country in Europe is by the amount of available quality drinking water per capita. And in conclusion, this package of laws is a reaction essentially to the challenges brought by the implementation of EU dictated projects and a period after the implementation of these projects as identified problems that are chronically plagued by the water services sector in Croatia. We are aware that the current organisational framework of fragmented water service suppliers has unfortunately exhausted its capabilities and reached its limit. On behalf of ensuring the availability of water services to all citizens and business users in the Republic of Croatia that, in the name of the social affordability of the future price of water, the financial self-sustainability of water suppliers and our future in the sustainable use of water, we together recognise the values this package of laws offers and support it in a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143427	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague of Bulj, and the second is a colleague of Vlaovic. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143428	Comrade Shileg, dear secretary. Water is the source of life and without water, of course, there is no life. Croatia is rich in water, however, and this government took a decision at a session a month ago from May to transfer our source's concession. Sources must be available to all. And it's the state that has to guarantee it, and that's the only thing that can guarantee it with the Constitution. If Slovenia could, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't. That's the first one. So the water is publicly good, not commercially good. That should be repeated. It is not exclusively the right of commercial companies and foreign multinational companies and offshore companies. And we need to protect the meanings through the Constitution and bring sublaws, and protect the karst area, not introduce us, i.e. You bring, you work from us a trash can... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143429	Thanks, buddy Bull. Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143430	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. In my debate on behalf of the club, I said that this part where you said that the regulation would define public water suppliers, 34, 40 or 45. We are against this, and we suggest that, when it is not already coming here in a parliamentary debate, that at least before it goes to the government, the debate of the parent council, the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Agriculture, that we have information on how it will be established, that it is not political according to where HDZ is and that there will remain public water suppliers, and where it is not, it will not, but that we have which, apart from the amount of water delivered, there will still be arguments for it. Whether it will be sustainable and whether what is crucial, why I ask this, you yourself said that the price will grow from 1.5% to 3% of the net income available. This should also be said to citizens to prevent the price from growing because they would politically define public water suppliers. We are opposed to the rise in the price of water for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143431	Thank you, too. This concluded the debate on the final proposal of the Water Act and the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act as well as the final proposal of the Water Services Act. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you to the Secretary of State for your presence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143432	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day, we will move to a statement on amendments as announced for the Final Proposal of the Water Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 606, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Dragica Vranjš and representatives Josip Djakić, Vesna Bedeković, Željko Lacković, Branko Hrg and Stevo Culej. I would like a representative of the motionary, secretary of state at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr. Maria Šiljeg, to be shown about the amendments submitted, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143433	Dear Parliamentarians and MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143434	Just a moment, Mr. Secretary of State, we're moving on to the amendment of the honourable representative, Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143435	So the amendment is accepted in the modified form This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[/Intrudica Brkić: What form, say?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143436	Thank you, here you go, obvious MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143437	I accept the amendments, given that nothing is fundamentally changing and I thank you for the changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143438	Thank you. We move on to amendments from respected colleagues Josip Djakic, Vesna Bedekovic, Željko Lackovic, Branko Hrg and Steve Culej. First amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143439	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143440	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143441	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143442	It's becoming an integral part of the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143443	We're going to vote now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143444	Mr. President of the Parliament, I have no other way, somehow in this way to express great dissatisfaction that for 215 days on average I have been waiting for answers to my parliamentary questions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143445	Comrade Lovrinović, I ask you to sit down, get a warning, first because you abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143446	.../ Intruder: I've been talking to you with a few rushes, you haven't made it possible for me./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143447	I'm asking you to sit down, you're getting a second warning and please sit down. You can't do that, it's just not allowed Please sit down. [[Intruder: You've cut us all off.]] We're going to the vote. Final proposal of the Water Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 606, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Dragica Vranjš and representatives Josip Djakić, Vesna Bedeković, Željko Lacković, Branko Hrg and Stevo Culej. I see a colleague of Grumo's is on the way, please. Wait a minute. Now turn it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143448	There he is. Thank you. So, here, I'm looking on behalf of the MOST Club to consult means ahead of the vote. I think it is very important to talk about water protection in the Republic of Croatia, but to talk about this constitutional initiative or amendments to the Constitution for which we have begun to collect signatures today, I hope we will do so next week because most colleagues have already given signatures, refer to the procedure for the water to be protected as, so in the Republic of Croatia in the Constitution, as a basic human right. So we have a situation to lead and threaten, and we are not aware of this important resource that we are very rich in, but we are not aware enough of it, nor do we have a responsibility to protect water and the fact that we must provide all our citizens with access to drinking water. Some other European countries, such as Slovenia, have done so, and the Most will now launch it as an initiative. Also, I would like all MPs to vote today on very important laws, where we are looking for amendments to the law on HBOR, we want all HBOR loans to be publicly available. To whom these funds have been allocated, and it is the public funds, the funds from the budget, and we also have, I pray for peace in the assembly, stick to the subject. Are you a colleague of yours, perhaps? Are you the new president of the Parliament? Well, then don't get into the word. I see there's some turbulence inside HDZ. You may be the new president, but we don't know that yet. [[Intruder: colleagues and colleagues.]] So we have this law, we also have the Heat Act. [[Please... colleague Plazonic, please leave your colleague Grmoy as he speaks.]] I ask my colleagues from HDZ to vote in favour of a law that will abolish the obligation to build a divisor imposed by Mr., known as Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak, it is also today at the vote and here, if you do not support such a HNS policy, I ask you and everyone else to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143449	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue at 10 o'clock 52 minutes. It's 10.42 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] The amendment statement was made earlier in the session and the applicant accepted the amendments, with the amendment of Dragice Vranjš being accepted in the amended form with which the MP agreed. It therefore puts the final proposal of the Water Act to the vote. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes 71 for, 19 against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Water Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143799	We continue with the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, second reading, P.Z. No. 620; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 620. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Mr. Juro Martinović, please welcome colleague Martinović, i.e. Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143800	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, honourable MPs and MPs. So before you there is the Law on Amendments and Complementary Procedures, a second reading. Therefore, the Law on a litigation procedure is a fundamental source of litigative procedural law in the Republic of Croatia. Since its adoption, the law has been amended several times, and the need for these amendments and additions stems from the need to amend certain legal institutes which slow down the litigation process, i.e. to introduce new solutions that will provide assumptions for greater efficiency, faster and more economical management of the procedure with the preservation of legal certainty and rule of law. Basically, it is necessary to amend the rules on the revision and to introduce a new Institute of the View Dispute as a new way of resolving disputes in which the decision depends on resolving the same legal issue which is important for ensuring the uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application or for the development of rights through judicial practice. Disputes that are more or more likely to be initiated in a shorter period of time. According to the new way of regulating the revision, as an exceptional legal remedy, the parties can only submit it if the Supreme Court permits it before or if it is permitted by law, and the law is allowed in working disputes, the Media Act, the prevention of discrimination and the establishment of paternity and motherhood. The proposed amendments and additions also propose to prescribe the way in which the court should calculate costs in the event of partial success of the parties in the dispute, in order to facilitate judicial work in the part of the cost calculation, but also to form a uniform caselaw. More powers are given to judges in achieving a peaceful dispute settlement, electronic communication is introduced in municipal courts, therefore, the state attorney's office, lawyer, public notary, court expert, judicial assessors, court interpreter, bankruptcy administrator and legal person are required to submit submissions in electronic form after a new solution. In relation to the text of the draft law you had before you, the text of the final draft law has been set out in this technical sense in order to specify the statement in relation to the provisions relating to electronic communication and the possibility of the court, in the light of the judgments, to present the requests of the parties, the facts which they have presented and the evidence they have proposed. The decision of the audit in the text of the final draft of the law was arranged somewhat differently in a way that the proposal for the authorisation of an audit was decided by the Council of 3 Judges, before 5 three judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and regulated the provisions on the presumption that the investigation brought by the Prosecutor on the basis of the accounts was most frequently established if the defendant used the right to deduct before tax unless the defendant proved otherwise and in respect of the obligation of the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration to supply data on the deduction before tax. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore, this was the most important reason for the changes, for this procedure in amending and supplementing the Law on Procedural Procedure, and these are the most important newspapers in one shortened version, and we are here to make this thing even better at this stage, or to hear your remarks, even if it is another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143801	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, we have three replicas, first is a colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This kind of revision will lead to a reduced number of decisions in audit cases but at the same time lead to two things. First, an increase in the number of requests to the Supreme Court as now, in all proceedings where the party is not satisfied with the decision, it will request the possibility of a declaration of audits. Secondly, when it is rejected, it will lead to an increase in proceedings before the Constitutional Court. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2006 in case U-1-1-569/04, the Constitutional Court, in due time, has increased the number of cases before the Constitutional Court because a limited revision has abolished the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure, if you are not afraid that such a thing will happen now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143803	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143804	So every procedure in the process solution has its own dilemmas. So that your thinking would eventually be if you cut the number of case files that will end up at the Supreme Court level so that it could increase the pressure on the Constitutional Court is real. However, according to the way I see these changes, so we'll have two degrees, first we'll ask for the Supreme Court's permission and then a possible revision. I believe this will be treated as a procedural decision and will not be a constitutional action against a decision on a request for approval of an audit, but only a metric matter. So they will be able to go to a constitutional lawsuit for a decision of power but no, not this because, therefore, in a decision of power they will be all and all of these irregularities that they are trying to make through the audit. And today, we have this solution, so we have, we go with the review and the constitutional suit. So the Constitutional Court stops until the audit is resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143805	Thank you. You'll have it, you'll be able to do it later. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143806	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I've only been asked one question, I've seen here... the law that something has changed in Article 66, where it is merely taxed that certain amendments relate to the previous procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My question is, in fact, given that I read well that it did not actually go here to amend these provisions on the previous procedure especially as regards deadlines and I think that, that deadlines for the proposals for proof and delay hearings etc., I am only interested in that view and you as a proposing whether in the future something will change around the deadline... Or this status that I'm getting a lot of information about is people, that maybe we should approach that review? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143807	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143808	To be honest, I didn't understand what direction your question was heading. So we have a previous question, it's an old institute that exists in a litigation procedure since the legal procedure. So we in this one already, but now that's better done, we have a delay in the process when we ask the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg to interpret the standards of European law. And here we were sorting things out in a pragmatic way so that we wouldn't have to do it too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143809	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143810	... According to the ruling, it is referred to the audit, the revision annuls the verdict, and there is no one to charge that amount, let's say 4.5 million kuna, as paid to a party according to a powerful verdict. [[Specially enabled.]] Have you considered how such a party would be defiled? And the damage was caused by a long trial, by high interest, by all that stems from such a trial. And the review was successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143811	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143812	It is therefore difficult to talk about specific cases, Your Honor, so litigation procedures are such that they always lead to one party losing the dispute. So for such situations it is envisaged that the Institute postpones the execution. It is provided for the institute, whether the particular party has failed in its intention, therefore, and the delay can be allowed at the principle level, the courts allow it to threaten that, in the event of the legal remedy and after the power to audit an extraordinary remedy, when it threatens that, if it does not delay, such consequences will arise and these are the consequences. I find it difficult to get in. As a rule, no delay is allowed against the state, against Croatia, against insurance companies because they are always powerful and there is no danger that in 5 years they will go bankrupt. And in situations where it is certain that someone could in such a way lose his means, there are courts in general... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143813	Thank you. Does the chairman of the Legislative Committee want one? Okay. Then I'm opening a debate. The first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go, fellow Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143814	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, dear secretary of state for your associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I try to briefly present on behalf of the club about the final proposal of the Law on the Prosecution Procedure (PPP). The CAP is a fundamental source of litigative procedural law and has been changed several times so far with the aim of solving the identified problems in practice, and to improve the system of civil law protection, in particular by speeding up the process and reducing the costs of the process itself. The aim of these amendments is also to improve the functioning of the judicial system, to accelerate and reduce the duration of court proceedings, and thus to reduce the costs themselves. I will highlight two basic papers in these amendments to the law, which is the new arrangement of the audit institute, and the introduction of a new institute called the so-called Institute. the examination procedure. According to the new proposal, the review as an emergency medicinal product may be submitted only if the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has previously authorised it or is permitted to do so by law. The proposal for a revision could be submitted within 30 days of the date of receipt of the second-degree ruling, and the proposal must state a specific legal question for which it is proposed to allow the revision and the reasons for which it is important to ensure uniform application of the law. The audit is decided by the Council of, according to the final draft of the law, by 3 judges and in the first reading, in the proposal of 5 judges on the proposal of the Justice Committee, we now have in the final proposal that the Council of 3 Judges will decide on that solution against which the legal remedy is not allowed. This narrows down the possibility of putting up with the so-called. regular audits, which should lead to the speed-up of the completion of the procedure and the discharging of the courts. The introduction of a new Institute of View Procedure will speed up the conduct in all those procedures in which things are of the same legal nature, which are launched in a larger number or are expected to be launched in a shorter period. Secondly, the decision taken by the Supreme Court on this legal issue guarantees the uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application and thus develops right through judicial practice, which is the constitutional task of the Supreme Court. The review procedure shall begin in the court of the first instance which shall request a session of the judicial department and, depending on the conclusion of the session, the proposal for a matter relevant for the uniform application of the law with the case file shall be submitted to the Supreme Court in order to take a legal position on the matter. The Supreme Court shall decide within 30 days on the authorisation of the proposal. It is proposed to further lay down the way in which the court should account for costs in the event of partial success of the parties in the dispute, in order to facilitate the work of the court in the part of the cost calculation. A single 15-day appeal deadline is also prescribed. In order to encourage peaceful settlement of the dispute with the proposed amendments and additions, it is proposed to give more power to the judges themselves in the decision on the costs of the proceedings which then become also dependent on the party's efforts to resolve the dispute peacefully. The proposed amendments and additions also leave the record recording of the hearing where conditions exist, and introduces the possibility of holding a hearing at remote audiovisual devices and provides for the possibility of sanctioning parties for late submissions, so that late submissions would not be taken into account. In order to speed up the proceedings, greater powers shall also be imposed on court advisers by prescribing that the proceedings before the commercial courts of the judicial advisers are authorised to take decisions to suspend the proceedings, continue the suspended proceedings and suspend the proceedings for the reasons set out in that law. Here, what is also important is that the applicant observed the comments made in the first reading and the Legislative Committee, and this Final Proposal has been no-technically improved, as I have already said, and some of the comments were not accepted in the first reading, but were explained by the applicant, the reasons why he did not accept those proposals and comments. The final draft law will also not require new budgetary resources in its application and the HDZ Club will support the adoption of such a final proposal for a CAP law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143815	Thank you, too. Next is counterpart Goran Aleksic, in front of the Living Walls Club and SNAGA, please welcome colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143816	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a very important law before us that the SNAGA party will support. I have several amendments to that law, regardless of whether you accept these amendments or not, I will support this law, primarily because of the institute of the review procedure which is very important and which was supposed to be proposed and adopted yesterday, but unfortunately no one thought of it, and it would be great if it did. I have to say, I'm assuming that the review procedure is actually proposed because of the Franak case. The Franak case has opened a series of legal issues concerning thousands and thousands of similar cases, and I believe it is the first time in the history of the Croatian judiciary that such a thing is happening, and then I believe that is why it is actually proposing this review process. The Franak case has opened a series of new situations, it has for the first time raised consumer protection to one higher level in Croatia, and here because of the Franak case, the ZPP is changing and it is very good and it is a pity that we did not remember before. So what amendments will I have? One of the amendments concerns the situation relating to the amendment of the case. Why should it actually be possible to change the case in cases where the proceedings are already pending, but some new facts are subsequently established by some court practice? That is why, because it is meaningful, and I will therefore propose that the amendment of the case is certainly made possible in any situation where, during the conduct of a judicial procedure, we come to a new factual situation relating to the procedure and then, although otherwise, it is not possible, it would be appropriate for the change to be made possible. I'll give you a concrete example, someone for example. He sued the bank because the bank had agreed with him an illegal contractual provision on a variable interest rate and therefore required the bank to pay back all the amounts of interest paid and the corresponding tight interest. In the meantime, a powerful verdict in the case of Franak has been found to have been legally found to be, in addition to the zero interest rate, the contracted and the zero currency clause CHF. And now, if the procedure has not yet been completed, if it is still pending at the first stage, if it is returned to the first stage after the appeal procedure, it would be appropriate to allow a change of suit to be made in such a way as to include in the claim also a request for payment of the course paid. Why would someone have to file another lawsuit, if, in the meantime, it was legally found that the currency clause was also invaluable, that would be meaningful, and that would allow whoever sued to get all the rights that defacto has. The second thing I propose is that instead of entering into force on September 1st, the law enters into force on the eighth day following its publication in the National Journal because this review procedure, which is very important, has no reason to wait, should be put into action immediately and immediately allowed to launch the review procedure. There are still a whole series of unresolved legal issues from the Franak case, which I will also talk about, and there is no reason not to allow the review procedures to take place immediately on these issues that have not yet been resolved. And the next thing I suggest through the amendment is that the review procedure should be applied to all procedures in progress. There is no reason why if we have 1000, 2000, 5000, 10000 similar procedures under way, there is no reason that in these procedures that have the same object, it does not allow for problems to be solved through the examination procedure, it would be meaningful and it would be in the spirit of law, it would allow all those people who have initiated similar proceedings to be able to resolve their actions much faster and have legal certainty in terms of resolving a particular procedure, they would know if the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia took the view that this should be settled according to variant 1, 2 or 3, which the variant is applicable and all would then apply that variant which the Supreme Court found applicable. Therefore, I see no reason not to apply this to ongoing proceedings. Well, I'd like to go back to the history of the Franak case because the Franak case is, in my opinion, the reason for this institute's review process. Unfortunately, the case is not yet closed, there are still a number of unresolved legal issues, it was launched in April 2012, and we are here in June 2019, still not finished with the review at the Supreme Court, at the Supreme Court still deciding on the audits of banks that require the abolition of the judicial verdict and still the debtors of consumers do not have legal certainty, but ultimately they do not have a bank and they should know what they are on. This legal certainty is extremely important because of the costs that any party involved in the litigation may cause. Here I am personally, with the help of the Franak Association, campaigning last half of the year where we have defacto urged people to sue because, on the basis of a final judgment, they have the right to sue banks, based on a judicial verdict, collective judgments, all these consumers have the right to claim overpaid interest, overpaid exchange rate, which belongs to a tight interest, at this point it is legally established and at this point consumers have the right to overpaid amounts. Meanwhile, according to one revision, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has decided that people who have converted their loans have a legal interest in establishing their rights, so they have the right to sue and claim their rights. The limitation of claims on these rights as regards the interest rate at 14.6., meaning 13.6. is the last day to press charges and people simply had to sue despite still not having absolute legal certainty. I think there is one particular responsibility here and at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that should have decided before on the Franak case, before it should have decided on bank audits and people would know what they were on, this is how people had to just sue because they had to go into antiquity of claims, and when they got into antiquity they no longer have the right to demand what the banks unfairly charged them with. And now these people still have legal uncertainty because it wasn't decided on the audits. These audits are not a review process, but in some ways they are. Why? Because of the 125,000 cases, therefore, the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on bank audits concerns 150,000 potential court cases, and I can say that the campaign was partially successful at this time, in order to make it a total of 25,000 lawsuits, but this number of 20,000 I assume has been achieved, is a good success of the campaign on the one hand, me and Franak have taken on one big responsibility because we told people that they should sue and we have warned them that there was also this risk called the bank audit, which we warned them about, but despite that, we ran one campaign because we wanted people to get their money. Other legal issues that have not been resolved other than the audit of banks which do not fall under the review procedure, but other legal issues that are very important, e.g. the method of calculating the amounts overpaid for converted loans. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has decided that debtors who have converted their loans have the right to establish their rights, to have a legal interest. However, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has not decided which variant of the calculation is acceptable, mathematically we have already publicly shown what actually happened in the conversion and what happens in the verdict. In the conversion, consumers received a reduction in the mains, some consumers had to pay because they did not pay enough through their CHF facilities to reach the main one that is reached through the euro simulation, and some consumers again overpaid that amount for a certain amount of kuna because they paid more by annuities from CHF loans than by simulated annuities from the EUR-o credit, so that someone has a deficit, someone overpayment from the conversion. What was not obtained by conversion was overpaid amounts of interest, overpaid rates and associated tight interest rates. The banks will say but we've admitted it to you through conversion. No, you didn't admit it to us through conversion because your reduction was not consistent with the worthless CHF course. First, the zero CHF course causes an even smaller principal than what happened through the conversion of CHF credit, and secondly, the overpaid amounts that have not been obtained through conversion, and then in the court of art, it is necessary to determine the exact difference between what is obtained by conversion and what is obtained by judgment. In order to achieve this, it is likely that it will be necessary to carry out exactly one review procedure unless an extraordinary review of the Supreme Court comes before that, in which case the Supreme Court will decide whether the method of calculation for the converted credit has been properly carried out. However, an even more important issue before this decision on calculations is the issue of bank audit, so the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia must first decide on bank audits, and only then will it be able to decide on calculations from converted loans because it is closely linked. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has announced that the audits of banks will be decided by the end of July, if it decides by the end of July, it means that already in August some review procedure could be initiated for converted loans, and therefore it would be good for the law to enter into force on the eighth day following its publication in the National Journal, not September 1st, because there is no time to wait, it is necessary for people to get legal certainty and for all those who have sued to know what they are on, to know how to modify their claims in accordance with what the Supreme Court decides, and to finally have certain legal certainty which they do not have at the moment. The second issue being raised as an important issue in the case of Franak is the question of the integrity of the CHF contract. A large number of consumers have sued or will sue the bank with a request that its CHF contract be declared worthless. Whether or not it will pass, depends on the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, because there will be strong rulings that the contracts are worthless, there will be powerful rulings that the contracts are not null and the Supreme Court will have to decide on this issue on the basis of some of the audits. Since I still don't know about any valid verdict on this issue, I believe that the easiest and simplest way to answer that question would have been the way to start a review procedure with the question of whether CHF contract is because it has a zero price, and that's the interest and because it has a zero main object, which is the course, is it because the price is zero and the main object, is that it's a zero and CHF contract? Therefore, this could also be resolved through the review procedure, and accordingly, I have again an argument that the law should be put into effect as soon as possible or that it should take effect on the eighth day following the publication in the National Journal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143817	Thank you, fellow Alexic. After you, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS colleague Stjepan Curaj, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143818	I thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, so the HNS Club very briefly now that we do not repeat ourselves, I will only sum up these most important items, in fact this is about two very important items, these are amendments to the rules on the revision and so on. the examination procedure. It is unnecessary to have four basic conditions again when and why legal review is allowed, or if it is a legal issue in which decision is deviating from practice, if there is no practice of the audit court, or if it is not uniform, further if that is the case... The understanding and judgment that the second-degree court is based on this understanding but for some reasonable reasons, in fact, for some particular reasons, during the previous procedure, or first-degree court could mean that changes in the system, in fact, would be a change in the system in the legislation and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] international agreements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So very clearly four basic reasons that should actually improve both here and functionalization and the justice system itself to be more efficient and economical than we all swear, which we all say, and we all know that cancer is our own country's wounds above all. So and therefore trust in the legal system, in any business, etc. I don't think we should talk about it too much right now. What is important to me in the review procedure, which is kind of new in the Croatian judicial practice that we absolutely welcome, is that it's kind of a little bit of an open door in a presidential decision-making way where we really do achieve this efficiency, speed up procedures, of course it's the Supreme Court that its interpretation and actually the decision it takes in a particular legal matter and the issue must be important for the application of a single one, for the uniform application of the right, in fact it is guaranteed that this uniform application of the right will be applied everywhere and applied to it and that everyone will get equality because not a small number of times we've had situations where, in that mild example, two different courts on the same decision differently, and then in a slightly smaller number that one court decides otherwise. And even my colleagues told me that one judge made the same decision, the same judge made two different judgments. I'm not saying that these are all candidates for the viewing example, but certainly, for the viewing process, I'm sorry, but certainly it's a good step and that it will certainly bring what we need to be unique, to ensure the uniform application of rights, equality, assurance and speed up procedures, and indeed bring this additional legal certainty. That's what I mean to everyone. What I would certainly like to point out this way is that tomorrow is the final deadline for filing an action related to the integrity of the provision for, or so on. Swiss franc, therefore, provisions on the unilateral possibility of changing interest rates, of course and currency clauses. And given that the limitation period is 5 years, however, by decision of 2014. The Supreme Court is believed to have re-started that limitation period, and so he performs tomorrow. And this way, I invite all citizens to file a lawsuit. Because I just think that and that is the key question that this is a unique example of whether what my colleague Alexic was saying, whether this law can also be applied to these disputes. In my opinion, from that interpretation of how I see here where in the very procedural way, how, what becomes a visual dispute, and that is, in the first instance, the process itself, the process itself, moves by pressing charges, is the first step. The second step is before determining the first hearing, Judge, according to what I was able to read, to decide and see if it falls under theory, or under the possibility of insurance... the uniform application of the law, i.e. the so-called the examination procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that means if he didn't do it until September 1st, does that apply to all these proceedings, if that's when he sees that the existing law is in force, or we go forward in the process under that part of the law and the Law on litigation at the time of the lawsuit, that's now a key issue. I've been reading something here, if I'm not wrong about the 502th amendment of the law, so I'd like to pray for that additional clarification about the part where even if I'm not mistaken, it says it's a little bit possible, but I'd like to consult, I'd like it to be consulted because I think it's clear to everyone that it would make it very fast. However, there are now some estimates that these proceedings about francs to power will take a few years, a year, two, three, I don't know, it's possible. This would absolutely reduce it, of course, simplifies but that would be a smaller cost for the specifically sued, or banks as regards the issue of tight interest on the value of the procedure itself, to that principal who is in suing. So, that leaves me as a question which is so legal, we always know that there is no retroactive action but this might reveal the door actually that it is possible if the first hearing was neither called or decided, because right here in the procedural provisions it is said that it must take place and recognize this procedure as seen before calling the first hearing because it is then going in the other direction. And, of course, I welcome here on behalf of the club, which prescribes greater powers to court advisers, so that, especially before commercial courts, the authority to make decisions to suspend the proceedings, continue to interrupt the proceedings, suspend the proceedings for the reasons set out in the law, hence further discharging the judges themselves and facilitate what must be important to us and cancer wounds, and that is efficiency. And the conclusion of what I have already said in the replica is, in fact, related to the previous, i.e. the provisions on the previous procedure, namely, they are not covered by this, although the practice so far has actually shown, i.e. in the application that the purpose of these provisions may be reconsidered in particular with the terms of the proposal of evidence and the delay of the preparatory hearing, so... Just once, it means whether in these parts it's meaningful and that way in practice what it looks like and what it's actually like and what it's causing problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the conclusion, I think it just actually answers this key question about the possibility of example for those who haven't started with the first hearings that we've commented on, whether it opens the door and to them because I think maybe even it should be interpreted on the two sides, one of course, to welcome it to be good, but secondly, if we're opening up some possibility of a constitutional lawsuit, if something is doing retroactively, if it's legally allowed, there should be smart not to actually have all these lawsuits standing by and having even bigger problems. Here's the HNS club, of course, will accept these changes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143819	Thank you. Next colleague, Peja Grbin, is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law on litigation is one of the most important laws for the functioning of the rule of law. Some may question this thesis, but all of us who have applied it in practice, and that means in every civil-legal procedure between legal persons and natural persons in the Republic of Croatia, we know how many citizens of this country are affected. Many of them are not even aware of it, but at least once very convenient during their lives, for this reason or for that reason, they will find themselves in court in some civil dispute that will be led precisely by the rules of this procedure that we are working on today. And so for years I was extremely happy that, with all the disadvantages and advantages that we should have had so far, this law was always adopted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament. There was a high consensus around him, and if I'm not mistaken, he was mostly adopted unanimously. However, this time this will not be the case because the SDP Representatives' Club for the reasons that I will continue to present this debate will not be able to support this law, but let us turn in turn. Yeah, there's a lot of newspaper in the law. They're good, they're bad. Yes, the view dispute is a good solution, it could have been even better if you had accepted our proposal to make it possible by modelling Article 267 here in addition to the view dispute. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU asks the previous question but you are not, but good. Yes, we are pleased that you have accepted certain proposals that we have made in committee discussions, such as, for example, that in the case of an audit permit, the procedure does not have to be conducted in front of a council of five judges, but we are sorry that you have not adopted other proposals that are much more important and decided, I would say, not on the functionality itself, but also on the constitutionality of this law. Let me explain what these problems are. First and foremost, the revision, this law restricts the possibility of a declaration of review. To clarify the case, the review is an extraordinary legal remedy that the parties in the civil proceedings can use after the procedure has been legally completed. Until now, the submission of the audit has been subject to certain conditions which were the same for all regardless of what was subject to the dispute. The audit was conditioned by the value of the case of the dispute, it could be a dispute over whether it was justified, it could be discussed and the Constitutional Court raised this question in a decision I previously mentioned in the 2006 U-1569/04 but it worked in practice. You are changing this today in a way that the revision will be able to be declared in any dispute provided that this audit is allowed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. What's that gonna mean in practice? A lawyer's profession has certain legality, one of these legalitys is that a lawyer is obliged to do everything in his power to protect his party's interests. Lawyers often use it the way they should and often the provision, that rule of attorney's ethics, interprets in a way that they will do everything to protect themselves from the potential persecution of a party dissatisfied with the success of the dispute. In particular, this means that most of my colleagues, most of my fellow Secretary of State, will, in a situation where their parties fail with the dispute, go to the Supreme Court with a request for revision. And even when he will be fully aware that such a request has not been established. Why? So for the simple reason that they would protect themselves from possible persecution because their noses were properly represented by the party and because they did not use all the means at their disposal. What does that mean? This means that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia will find itself buried in more cases than it has ever been before and watch the paradox. In criminal cases where the Supreme Court reduces the inflow of cases, where the Supreme Court, with a reduction in the inflow of cases, increases the alertness leading to a dramatic reduction of the backlogs that are measured in hundreds, the laggings in the Supreme Court in the criminal court are measured in hundreds and in civil court in thousands, we will establish a High Criminal Court which will take over part of the Supreme Court burden which is objectively burdened by the Supreme Court, a criminal trial. Some will say it's to secure Mr. Turudich's place, I'll say maybe. On the other hand, in a civil trial, where we have a far larger inflow of cases at the Supreme Court, where we have far greater backlogs, where in working disputes on the Supreme Court's decision is waiting for years, I personally know about cases where the audit decision on the case relating to the cancellation of the order contract is pending for 4 years, 4 years, so when it is decided for the benefit of the workers, the employer must pay millions of amounts and that the worker would sooner be protected and the employer would not be so sanctioned, there we do what? With these legal changes, we ensure that a far greater number of people will address the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia with a request for revision. So far we've known, you've got a lawsuit for damage compensation, the VPS procedure is 20,000 kuna, you've lost power, in county there's no further, but now you're going under the pressure of what I was saying, you're going to have to go to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will be buried with cases that are of little value. One of the fundamental principles of Roman law was that “de minis non leak praetor, ” the smallest things are not judged by the court. We're going the other way now. At least 1000, 2.5 will ultimately be decided by the Supreme Court because it will be preceded by a request for review in a specific case. And what happens when that request is rejected? Well, we'll go to the Constitutional Court and we'll actually generate an increase in the number of cases both before the Supreme Court and before the Constitutional Court. I don't think that's good, and I think this solution to the legal order and legal security of the Republic of Croatia is not good. And it's ironic that in one law you make an excellent solution that will ultimately reduce the number of cases such as the view dispute while at the same time adopting a catastrophic solution that will undo all the positive effects. Another problem in this law that we have pointed to is the issue of its entry into force in previous discussions. So it's a political decision to get along right now. The issue of review is a legal issue but the question of the entry into force of this law is a political question, why? It is precisely because of what my predecessors have been talking about, and this is a large number of cases that our citizens are moving towards the issue of the Swiss franc where the Supreme Court has not yet taken a final position and in some it is not, because a more massive launch is yet to be expected. So let me get this straight. When we talk about retroactiveness, when we talk about retroactivity, it's a controversial retroactivity that refers to material provisions. It is a retroactivity that should be avoided at all costs, although in the legal order it is not always possible. Sometimes it is necessary to correct certain injustices, and that seems to be and it will not be necessary to run from it, but it should be done relatively, however, procedural issues do not have the same meaning when we talk about retroactiveness as others do. If we change the course of the proceedings, so we put the Supreme Court at the beginning of the proceedings and not at the end of what is proposed by the review dispute and what is good, we do not reduce the rights of the parties, we do not reduce the rights of the parties, the rights of the parties will be decided by that material law which should be applied regardless of whether the Supreme Court decided at the beginning or at the end but we will get a faster trial and the faster trial is in the interest of all and look at the situation now, I am convinced that this would be so, if the Supreme Court through the review dispute would solve the issue of the franc by the end of this year, if it were resolved by our citizens of consumers, then it is evident that the banks would have any legal and financial interest to settle in other cases which would lead to a reduction in the number of cases before the courts. We are now not just talking about protecting the interests of Croatian citizens, we are also talking about protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia and reducing the number of cases before the courts is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia for several reasons, from financial to legal nature because we want our proceedings to be conducted faster. On the other hand, if the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the banks, then our citizens would know what awaits them in these proceedings and withdraw the charges, reduce the cost for themselves, reduce the burden that will be caused by the potential loss of the dispute and yet another positive effect for the Republic of Croatia, and reduce the number of cases. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Article 117 provides for the provisions of this law to be applied and the procedures under way. Therefore, we are already defining that certain procedural provisions will apply to procedures that are under way and there is nothing disputed in this, we are merely deciding whether or not we will apply to the proceedings that are under way and the provision in the review dispute. We in the SDP are firmly convinced that this would be meaningful and that, and I will even use that word, necessary to ensure legal certainty but also to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in order to allow them to know as soon as possible what the fate of their demands will be in such difficult and financially expensive cases. The SDP representative club submitted two amendments. One amendment proposing that the provision of Article 107, therefore, of the review procedure, applies also to the proceedings pending and secondly to amend the provisions on the entry into force of this law in a way that will allow the provisions of the law concerning the view dispute to enter into force on a larger and eighth day after the date of publication of this law in the National Journal, whereas for all other provisions of this law, the entry into force would be as provided for by the Proposer, so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in order to ensure exactly what is stated in the light of this proposal of the law on page 52, i.e. to ensure that the legislation is brought into force so that those who apply this law may be familiar with it. I note that this should not be a problem with the review dispute is ultimately the one that must apply the grotesque provisions of this law in the review dispute and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and if one court, based on the experience and knowledge of the judges sitting in it, should guarantee that it can be prepared quickly for the application of this law, then it is the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll be done. The SDP advocates' club submitted these amendments. We call on you to support them, and we call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to review the provisions of this law regarding the revision. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia had intervened with its amendment in the provisions concerning the revision in such a way as to tie it to a certain value of the dispute, it would, however, extend the circle of those situations in which the audit was always allowed, counterpart Miljanic, when he spoke of it, pulled the parallel between bankruptcy and cancellation of the worker. Because in bankruptcy, you know, he quits all workers in one company, such as we unfortunately had opportunities to see in Uljanika and 3. May, and this decision cannot come under musk before the Supreme Court but must be requested approval, and you can always come to the Supreme Court for cancellation. If such illogicalities were corrected, the SDP Club would certainly support this law, but in this form, as it is now before us, unfortunately, I repeat, unfortunately, we will not be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143821	Thank you, too. We're done arguing on behalf of the MPs' club. Now we're starting an individual debate. He is the first colleague of Goran Aleksic, after which he has a colleague, Alexic, has a final. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143822	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Justice, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I said a few words as to why it is important to apply the review dispute to ongoing procedures. I said why it was necessary for the law to come into effect as soon as possible. I would now once again argue with another legal question as to why it is necessary, why it is important that the review dispute be conducted as soon as possible for certain procedures. It is a matter of limitation of claims on the basis of zero contractual provisions or of zero contracts. I think that the outdated claims, if not already, will soon come to the agenda of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will soon have to decide again on its old position. At the moment, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has an opinion on the limitation of claims relating to the integrity of the contractual provisions, i.e. the nullity of the contract. It has the view that antiquity of claims begins to flow from the day the acquisition without a basis arose. We have a very disproportionate dilemma, in fact where on the one hand we have a situation where we can call on nothing forever, so if anything is harmful, we can find out that it's worthless forever, after 100 years, some heir may demand that something in a contract was worthless. However, the limitation of claims begins from the moment that something has become worthless, that is, when it did not even arise, and from the moment this acquisition without a basis arose. Because actually, when something is harmful, then the return of certain claims is done on the basis of the acquisition without a basis. And now we have this one so completely illogical situation where you can forever call for nothingness, but you can't get claims based on this corruption, so the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, for example. So, on the basis of one revision, he did somewhat change his view on statutes where, on the basis of the revision, 2245/17, he found that the appeal in the case of Franak had suspended the limitation of the claim and that the judgment in the case of Franak had begun to start over. However, this applies to only one particular segment of those contracts negotiated between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2008 in the case of Franak. There's a doubt among judges, I know that. Does this also relate to euro and kuna loans, in the interest rate sphere? So then I have, for example, in the judgment of the High Court of Commerce, unequivocally delivered on page 44, meaning a powerful verdict, 6632/17, at station 44, and the verdict clearly states that that part of the ruling concerning interest dispute applies to all currencies and to all types of consumer credits. It certainly says so, but the judges don't judge it that way. Some judge that there is no statute of limitations for Euro-cun loans, some judge that there is. Well, then, for those where there's no outdated claims, people who had the euro or the kuna credit and then file a lawsuit, they get the full amount of overpaid interest and the corresponding tight interest, and if the judge thinks he's out of date, then he can only get five years from the day of the lawsuit. No logic, EU law is very clear in this regard. The EU's law says that in the event of any unfair and harmless contractual provisions being established, the consumer then has a subjective right to obtain a full restitution. And that is exactly the position of the EU court, that rule, EU law is applied in the revision 2245/17. But it only applies to one limited segment. At this point, I know that. It is in the Supreme Court of Audit on a verdict by the County Court in Rijeka. The GS in Rijeka is one of the courts in the Republic of Croatia who does not accept the position of the Supreme Court on the limitation of claims on the basis of the worthless contractual provisions, i.e. the zero contracts and the FC in Rijeka, has the view that this position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the limitation of the claim is worth the institute of integrity. And I think that the river's JS is absolutely right. It doesn't make any sense that you were robbed 15 years ago by someone to find out about it after 15 years, that at that moment when you find out, sue and then the court tells you no, you have no right to do that because it was 15 years ago, you have the right to the last five years alone. I didn't know I was robbed, I just found out today, how is it possible that I don't have the right to get that money that someone robbed me of? It's not in line with, it's not in the spirit of law. It's not in the spirit of justice. I also have here a summary of one verdict of the Court of Human Rights in the case of Moore and others against Switzerland. In the case of Moore and others against Switzerland, the man is Hans Moore, Hans Moore's name is, worked with asbestos in '65. until '78. He was diagnosed with cancer in 2004, died in 2005. The heiress sued the firm and sought immaterial damage. And the court in Switzerland has found that there has been an limitation of claims because cancer is due to the work with asbestos, it is a professional disease, the disease occurred between '65. And in '78, it's the cause of the disease, it was found in 2004. And the court said 10 years since '78. You had every right to ask for it, and you didn't ask for it, and now you have no right to do it. However, when the European Court of Human Rights liked the case, the European Court of Human Rights found that the law of Switzerland did not comply with the Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has said this, he said, in the context of exceptional circumstances in this case, that the application of limitation periods has violated the right of the applicant to access the court contrary to Article 6(1). Since the Court considers that in cases where it has been scientifically demonstrated that a person could not have known that he was suffering from a particular disease, that fact should be taken into account when calculating the limitation period. I'm pulling the parallel now with the Franak case, it's very, very similar, seemingly not but actually it is. This man didn't know he was sick and because he didn't know he was sick and because he didn't know he was sick and he was sick, he couldn't sue the company. When the disease was established, it was too late and he was already near the end of his life, with cancer he ate it completely. It's the same thing in the Franak case, the net contracted a loan in 2003, it doesn't have to be a franc, it can be a euro, it can be a kuna loan, it can be a loan, and it's agreed on a unfair interest rate in that loan, it's an interest rate that's changed by the bank's decision. When he negotiated that loan, he did not know that such an interest rate should not be negotiated. An ordinary man, and not only "ordinary", even the lawyers didn't know it, they didn't read it well, the judges didn't know it, they didn't know it, they didn't know it, they only knew it, they only knew it and they deliberately placed it, they deliberately placed the interest rate that was changed by the bank's decision so that they could then manipulate the interest later as they remembered it. And so in 2003, if someone agreed on an interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision, he did not know that such an interest rate should not be negotiated, only by a powerful verdict in the case of Franak, 2014, we find that such an interest rate is nothing, and it is only there that our right to seek something because that is where we get this knowledge, so it is very similar to this knowledge of the disease. There's no statute of limitations before we know it's harmful. It's only when we find out that it's a waste of time, and that's a powerful verdict, that should only start counting the limitation period ever since. Such a way of seeking and such a way of calculating outdated deadlines has, say, one Serbia, we might as well have. I hope that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia will change that in some of the controversies, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143823	Here you go, buddy, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143824	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Justice, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In short, I would like to conclude what I was talking about, so the SNAGA Party will support the amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedure, I have proposed 3 amendments, with one amendment I propose that the amendments be made compulsory in the procedures in which it is established during the proceedings that the case-law of law has been effectively amended, or by reviewing the Supreme Court, and that, in that case, a certain claim can be changed to more although this is not possible now. I also propose that the law enter into force on the eighth day of publication because it is meaningful in line with many unresolved legal issues in the case of Franak, where all of this could then be resolved much faster and finally that the review procedure is applied to ongoing proceedings, first and foremost because of the Franak case because there are a whole series of unresolved legal issues that need to be resolved as soon as possible, so I will repeat what legal issues have not been resolved. One legal question is not part of the review dispute but I will say that it is a very important legal issue, it is a matter of reviewing banks in the Supreme Court where banks have demanded that the ruling of the High Court of Commerce be abolished that the currency clause is CHF, this is already under review at the Supreme Court, this will be settled in the context of the collective litigation until the end of July, but after that we are left with unresolved legal questions, the legal question of the variations of the amounts of the converted loans, for converted CHF credits, there are several dilemmas in this regard, there are several different rulings, the majority of judgments are in favour of consumers but they are exactly equal and the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia would have to level that practice, so the way of calculating the amounts paid, interest, the amounts paid, the amount of exchanges, the difference of judgments made in the principals from the converted credits, which have to the same amount, which have to the same amount of money, which have been paid to the same amount, and the same amount of money, which the same amount of money, which are not paid, which the same amount, which are not paid, which are paid, which the same amount of money, which the same amount, which are paid, which the same amount, which the same amount, which the same amount, which the same amount, which the same amount, which are paid, which is paid, which are paid, which are paid, which are paid, which are paid, which the same amount of money, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which they paid, which are paid, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which are not paid, which are not paid, which are not paid, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which they have paid, which are not paid, which are not paid, which are not paid, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which the banks, which are not paid, which the banks, which the banks, which are not paid, which are not paid, which are not paid, which are not paid, which are not paid, which are not paid, which they, which The next legal issue to be decided by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and will be decided on at some time is the question whether the contracts with the CHF currency clause in which the change in interest rate is agreed at the same time, which is changed by the decision of the Bank, therefore those are contracts in which the main object is damaged, that is the exchange rate and the price is zero, and that is interest. Are such contracts harmful or can they survive without the main object and at no cost? The EU court has already concluded by its judgment C-118/17 that contracts in which a zero rate should be damaged should be decided by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Well, just because a large number of consumers have sued or sued banks with a request that their contracts be declared worthless, I'm one of them, I also sued the bank and asked that my contract be declared worthless. It is important for the legal certainty of all such consumers, that the Supreme Court decide whether these contracts are harmful. I'll just tell you one example. My claim is at 511 thousand kuna. My every legal store costs five thousand kunas. I need to know if I'm going to win that dispute or not. I need to know if I need to remove that high claim not to be burdened by costs or if I need to leave the lower one, which is 101 thousand kuna, which refers only to the exchange rate and the currency, and not to a complete zero contract. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia must also provide legal certainty for me and all others who sue in such a way as to continue the proceedings. And finally, the question of an old-fashioned claim related to the value of contract provisions and the value of contracts. That is a very important question, the position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on that matter has become obsolete. That attitude is back on the test. The County Court in Rijeka has reached a verdict that is different from that and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has to make a new decision as soon as possible. If it is not to be adopted on the basis of some of the audits, it is necessary to implement the review dispute as soon as possible and to re-determin the position on an old-fashioned claim on the basis of the zero contractual provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143825	Thank you both and now on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Mr. Juro Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143826	... and MPs. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So thank you all for participating in this space, therefore, in the space of the Law on Procedural Procedure, we arrange it in the best possible way. I must say that members of the working group, and it consists, for those who do not know, of the top practitioners, so the judges of the Supreme Court, the county courts, the deputy state attorney and the scientific community of university professors together with lawyers, experienced lawyers of the Ministry of Justice are given the task of making some changes, as in this case, in this sphere of the Law on Prosecution. We, like when we do it on behalf of the Government, to bring to you, the parliamentary representatives, the best solution that we consider to be, we are handling the best interests of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We can never observe anything through the prism of one party, one litigation party, and I'd say, maybe it's our handicap, but it's just our obligation. So, we've done these procedures in the Law of Prosecution in my court of law a few good things. We are certainly better equipped with the audit space, so we have made great progress in reducing the number of cases, the institute, the new institute in the litigation process, and this is a visual dispute. We, therefore, by electronic delivery speeded up all litigation procedures and thus certainly contributed to a significant reduction in litigation proceedings in front of Croatian courts, but as Government, as responsible people, as lawyers who worked on it, we are aware that we cannot guess, therefore and meet all expectations of all litigation parties. We are aware, as a lawyer practitioner, that each litigation one party loses and that side is dissatisfied and things then criticize. So, all these proposals coming from a position primarily viewed by a single litigator party are overly focused on the party's interest. We simply need to manage that we are a democratic structure, that we are a democratic state, that the rule of law is a high-ranking institute in the constitutional values of the Croatian legal order, and the rule of law implies legal certainty for all. It is difficult to accept the advocating of retroactive validity and procedural rules, even if there is a more liberal position of legal science than material regulations, but we need to know that the parties that have initiated litigation have legitimate expectations, as the Court of Human Rights likes to say, therefore, legitimate expectations that their match should be completed according to the rules that applied at the beginning of the litigation process. We managed it when we talked about transitional and final provisions, so we left the thing at this level. So, it also advocated the possibility of a shorter vacating of the legions, so a shorter period of entry into force of certain provisions, we also consider it unnecessary to make any exceptions since for those months or two, that is, for some two months, nothing will be obtained, no one will essentially lose any rights. We will eventually get to the Supreme Court's ruling on one of the possible visual disputes. So to go to a breach of the institute, a breach of principle, just to get us a little sooner, a decision of the Supreme Court, I don't think it's principled and it's not legally correct. That is why we remain in this legal proposal well enough balanced and that is why in this form, with this content we have proposed to HS to adopt it after this second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143827	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, the second reading of P.Z. No. 620. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143828	We move on to the following: - Declaration on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, I thank the State Secretary. Second reading P.Z. Number 620. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP MPs' club, MP Goran Aleksic and the HDZ Representatives' Club. We are moving on to the amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the first amendment, please Mr. Secretary of State Kristian Turkalj to take note of this first amendment to SDP's Club of Representatives, please welcome fellow Turkish.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143829	The President-in-Office, therefore the first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is rejected because it is not accepted because the procedures are at different stages of resolution, which would result in the adoption of such an amendment leading to legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143830	Thank you. Is it obvious someone from the club? No, we'll vote. Second amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club, please welcome State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143831	The President-in-Office, he is also rejected as we bind the entry into force to 1.9 in order to prepare everything necessary for the preparation of the law's entry into force, i.e. the implementation of the law. There are a number of newspapers in this proposal itself, so a transitional period is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143832	Thank you. Dear colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143833	I've been on the board so far. Is this the Law of Prosecution? Can I explain? So, the amendments in question have been submitted for a very simple reason. We have submitted the subject-matter amendments only to allow the review dispute to be applied to the procedures currently under way. As I suppose we all know in front of Croatian courts there are a number of procedures related to Swiss francs, currency clauses, interest rates etc. We believe that there would be more than an opportunised procedural institute, so I repeat once again, a procedural institute, not a material legal institute, such as a viewable dispute applied to all of these procedures that are under way to speed up their resolution and to allow the Supreme Court's decision and in these proceedings to be obtained now at the beginning, and not to wait years to decide after the appeals possibly by county courts and only then the audits before the Supreme Court on them. At the same time, we have proposed that these provisions, only those provisions relating to the review dispute, enter into force immediately, and the rest of the Law on the litigation procedure within the deadlines proposed by the applicant. We believe that it does not take so long to prepare for the application of the review dispute in practice because it should be applied before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, so before the highest judicial instance in this country where judges who can begin to apply it immediately, and since the judiciary has participated in working groups for the construction of this law, the Supreme Court is also aware of the ways in which the views will be called the dispute will operate in practice. Given the above, I am sorry that the amendments are not accepted and I request a natural vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143834	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for this statement. We move on to the First Amendment submitted by the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143835	The Honorable Chairman does not accept the First Amendment. The amendment is not accepted because the case-law in the Republic of Croatia is not considered to be a formal source of law, given that it is necessary, in any particular case, to review the court which conducts a specific case, we believe that the current provisions represent a sufficiently wide-ranging framework which allows the court to then respect the situation if the Supreme Court's decision is taken to allow for reasons of purpose the amendment of the action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143836	Thank you. I'd like a statement from my colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143837	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary, this is about the following: we have a situation where we have a big collective dispute that ended with a verdict in favour of consumers. In the case of Franak, it was found firstly in 2014 that the interest rate was zero, and in 2018 it was found to be zero and the currency clause. It is precisely because people have started litigation over the interest rate and are still leading these disputes, and in the meantime there has been a new verdict that is a powerful one, which is enforceable, against which litigation can be conducted, and accordingly I have suggested that in such disputes, the lawsuit can be changed and the currency clause should be added so that the consumer does not have to press another suit. Because the fact is, all those who filed a damage interest suit and are looking for their overpaid interest have to sue once more for the currency clause to get the exchange rate difference. Accordingly, I suggested that the change be accepted because this change is not such a terrible thing in this particular case. Before it was possible and possible, we changed it in the meantime, so we decided that it could not increase the claim, because it is primarily related to the increase in the claim. That's why I'm asking to vote on that proposal, on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143838	Thank you, colleague Alexic. We move on to the Second Amendment of Honored Fellow Goran Aleksic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143839	The Honorable Chairman, respected MPs, so the Second Amendment of Honored Representative Goran Aleksic is also not accepted for the same reasons why the SDP amendment was not accepted, and it refers to the preparation of proceedings under way at different stages of resolution, so we think that from the moment when the proceedings are allowed, so only when we have a situation before the preparatory hearing or if the preparatory hearing is held, if it is not concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143840	I thank the Secretary of State. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143841	Thank you. In the case of Franak again, it is still a matter of a few unresolved real issues, the legal issue of the statute still remains fully resolved. EU law states that there is no statute of limitations in the case of unfair contractual provisions. Then there is the question of zero contracts, the question of whether CHF contracts are harmful, because the subject and price are worthless and the Supreme Court will have to decide at some point and because of what the issue needs to be allowed to see the dispute also for proceedings in progress. In addition, there are procedures in progress for converted loans where the exact way of determining the amounts overpaid has not yet been established. So these are as many as 3 outstanding legal questions in the Franak case for ongoing proceedings and to which the review procedure should be applied despite the ongoing proceedings. However, I have seen that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an amendment which is essentially a modified amendment to this amendment of my amendment, so I hope that this amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be accepted and I thank you, in fact, for accepting this proposal in some way, so I am not asking for a vote because I expect that amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be accepted, and this amendment is precisely on the basis of my proposal to apply the examination dispute to proceedings in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143842	I thank my colleague, Alexic, whether it means you're giving up your Second Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143843	Yes, to give up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143844	So you're withdrawing the Second Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143845	So, I take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143846	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the Third Amendment of Honored Fellow Goran Aleksic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143847	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. As far as the third amendment is concerned, it is not accepted. So, regarding the entry into force of this law, the same reasons that we have already stated regarding the SDP amendment, the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143848	Thank you. Dear fellow Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143849	I believe that the law should be released in the application of the 8th day after the entry, after publication in the National Journal and therefore request a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143850	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143851	The President-in-Office of this proposal is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143852	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of the amendments submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143853	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 620. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 199. Rules of Procedure. The amendment submitted must be agreed by the majority of the present representatives. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 106 for and 7 abstentions have been decided to hold the debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to ask the Honorable Christian Turkal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to explain the amendment submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143854	Honorable MPs, respected MPs. Before you is the proposal for an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 117. The final proposal of the Law extending the application of the review dispute to, as provided for in the draft Law on the litigation procedure and to all proceedings pending, in which the preparatory hearing is not completed, or which has a specific preparatory hearing but has not concluded the previous procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143855	I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. A fellow coat of arms, on behalf of the club, of course you can only speak like everyone else who possibly wants to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143856	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We conducted two readings on the Law of Prosecution. During both readings, the SDP's Club of Representatives, but also our colleague, Alexic, warned of the fact that there is no reason why the review dispute should not be applied to the ongoing procedures. For what? Well precisely because of the already known problems surrounding the currency clause, which is about interest rates related to many credit agreements in Swiss francs, there is a need to apply the view dispute. We regret that it was necessary to insist so much, we regret that this proposal only happened at this late stage, so we cannot specifically discuss and point out the shortcomings of the Government's proposal but we are still glad that the Government has caved in and accepted that the view dispute can be applied to part of the procedures under way. A message to all citizens who are conducting such proceedings to seek the exploitation of this possibility, to insist on courts and to come to the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible so that, after a successful conversion, and that part of the problem of the Swiss franc not covered by the conversion can finally be solved successfully. The SDP representative club will support this amendment, however, we also insist on accepting our amendments for several reasons. First because they are more comprehensive and because they offer a complete solution to the application of the view dispute to the procedures under way and secondly, I would say perhaps even more important because it allows the application of the view dispute to begin immediately after the entry into force of this law and not to wait a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143857	Is there anyone else here to discuss this? If I don't close the debate and put the amendments to the government to vote. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 116 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against the adopted amendment of the Government and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. We now move to a decision on the other amendments submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Goran Aleksic and HDZ Representatives' Club. The statement was made earlier in the session, so we will only vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. We are taking the order of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Amendment 1. The government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2 of the same club the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 1st Representative of the Upper Aleksic Government does not accept, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Two is withdrawn, so we don't have to vote. And Amendment No. 3 The government does not accept, so please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We have another amendment to the HDZ Club of Representatives he has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. So now we move to a vote on the final draft of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on litigation, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 80 for and 44 abstentions, have been passed a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143858	The following item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Council for Electronic Media; The Proposer is the Government under Article. 68. The law on electronic media. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Designation, Information and Media. We have Mr. Ivica Poljičak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, so if you would like to further explain the proposal, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143859	Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Very summed up. The Council for Electronic Media shall have 7 members, as referred to in Article. 68. Law on electronic media, members of the Electronic Media Council shall appoint and resolve HS on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the process of proposing members of the Council, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall initiate the procedure for the appointment of members of the Council for Electronic Media by publication of a public call. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a public invitation has been made to propose a candidate for the appointment of one member of the Council for the purpose of a request for discharge of the President of the Council, Mr Damir Hajduk, in August 2018. At the call in question, 21 candidates applied, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to HS to appoint Katju Kusec to the members of the Council. Please support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143860	Thank you, too. We have the committee's rapporteur with us, ma'am. Sunhead. Okay. Then I'm opening a debate. First, my colleague Miro Bulj enlisted. His colleagues are gone, so he loses his right to debate at this point in the agenda. The next one is a colleague of Suncana Glavak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome colleague Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As you heard in the introduction, a public invitation was called for the appointment of a member of the Council for Electronic Media. 21 applications have been received at the invitation to tender, and Mrs President-in-Office has been proposed from the proposed candidates. Katja Kusec. Just a few words on the work of members of the Electronic Media Council. Therefore, it is about people who apply to a competition that can only be citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who have expertise, skills and experience in the activities of radio or television or in publishing cultural or similar activities. The electronic media council is an independent regulatory body in the field of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia whose tasks are prescribed by the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on HRT. Among other things, the Council for Electronic Media shall carry out concession procedures, i.e. taking concession decisions and authorising the implementation of authorisation procedures for the provision of audio and/or audiovisual media services on request, and for satellite, internet, cable and other forms of audiovisual and/or radio transmission. They make warnings in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the laws and sublaws. In its work, the Council for Electronic Media shall be governed by legal and sub-legislative acts and, of course, the contribution to the development of society by the protection of pluralism of electronic media and the diversity of content in such a way as to ensure equal conditions for the competition for all media service providers and by encouraging production and publication of content from public value in such a way as to make it available to as many users as possible in the Republic of Croatia. The Council shall have 7 members, presidents and members of the Council for Electronic Media. It shall appoint and resolve HS on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as with the member proposed today. The president of the council is also the director of the agency, and the mandate of the council is 5 years, with them being re-appointed. The Council shall take its decisions at meetings regularly and publicly available and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council for Electronic Media. The members of the Council shall also act in accordance with the Ethics Code, in this way their work is prescribed and therefore, when appointed as members of the Council, they shall act in accordance with the applicable Ethics Code. The Council normally manages the Electronic Media Agency. Council members should be employees who in their lives, in public life, have stood out for respect for democratic principles and the rule of law, building and improving the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, the development of civil society, the defence of human rights and freedoms, as well as the protection of freedom of expression. What the Council of Electronic Media is doing among other things is that it also has the resources to promote pluralism in the equal amounts of the Council to deploy for the diversity of audiovisual and radio programmes according to the criteria set out in the sublaw. The Pluralism Fund, I'll just remind you of the variety of electronic media, is the agency, and the fund's financial resources are secured by the HRT Act, in a way that is allocated to the 3% of the income from the RTD tax paid to HRT. Speaking of which, I would just like to remind myself that it is about local, regional level, publishers of any radio, any television, non-profit publishers, non-profit media providers, electronic media, non-profit providers of electronic publications and non-profit producers and audiovisual and/or radio programmes. The fund has been living for several years and without it, we could say that all these publishers, especially the local level, could not actually achieve their public function, which is very significant, especially in the local environments. The audiovisual media space in Croatia consists of a public broadcasting service. We have 11 national channels, 4 national radio stations, 23 local TV stations and 141 local radio stations. We have 13 audio and audiovisual media services on request, 96 satellite and internet and cable transmissions of audiovisual and radio programs of non-profit producers 47 and even 335 electronic publications. The Council, I will remind myself, was founded in 2004 and since then, has been acting independently in the media space of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the arrival of the candidacy, i.e. as regards the proposal sent by the Government to HS, Ms. Katja Kusec is a longtime journalist, an HRT employee with 32 years of training. In her professional and public life, she noted her commitment to respecting democratic principles and rule of law, building the highest standards in journalism, for which she also won the 2002 ASS Award for the management of the Croatian Information Programme. In addition to proven journalistic qualities, she proved her managerial and management skills, she was head of the HRT Centre working unit, which included organising and managing people and news tasks with 500 employees at the time, and currently acts as editor of the first HTV channel, which means managing and coordinating the creative and organisational part of the programme for all viewers. The first channel of HTV is also a window channel, a kind of premium channel of HRT, a graduate not a lawyer, and was also a member of a parallel study at the Faculty of Philosophy at the same university. Her résumé, of course, got you in the materials. - Mrs. Crescent. Katja Kusec, if elected, which is supported by the HDZ Committee on Information, Information and Media, also made a statement that the members of the Committee took note of and received at the meeting of the Committee confirming that, after being appointed and certified by the Parliament as a member of the Council for Electronic Media, they would end their working relationship with HRT because, of course, they would be in conflict of interest, and also, since they are professional behaviour of a member of the Council, they cannot be in two incompatible duties. What I would like to say from the section of the work of the Council for Electronic Media, the Council held on 22 May and its final session at which decisions were taken precisely on the allocation of funds relating to the media incentive and pluralism fund, so that all data, of course, is also available on the Council's website. We believe that the council is doing its job well, and equally, I must say that the council as a regulatory body has done well, for example, by following, or by doing monitoring on the protection of minors, on the protection of personal data, so, here, I want to draw attention, that the council has also reacted to a recent case of domestic violence on Pag, where some warnings have been made, or measures, in accordance with the law of publishers who have acted in accordance with the law, or did not respect the protection of the rights of minors. We will, of course, discuss the part-round of the Council when it will be for that time, when a report will be submitted to the HS, which I first said, proposes and confirms and, of course, oversees the work of the Council for Electronic Media or the Agency. The HDZ Club will support Mrs. Katju Kušec for a member of the Council for Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143862	Thank you, too. Since his colleagues Milosevic and his colleagues are gone, they are also losing their right to debate. That's how I close the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, we will continue tomorrow at 9:00 and 30 minutes with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Restriction Measures, second reading, P.Z. No. 622. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session adjourned at 3:56 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-12-0.u143863	The proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Council for Electronic Media, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council for Electronic Media, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 74 for, 6 abstentions and 29 against the decision to appoint members of the Electronic Media Council is in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to work. The first point today is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on International Restriction Measures, second reading, P.Z. No. 622 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Foreign Policy and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Andreja Metelko Zgombić, State Secretary, please.
