ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u124030	Dear President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, today I will talk about how we have a banking system that will keep us at the bottom of the EU until further notice. Why? First of all, I want to say that the accumulation of citizens, the total savings of Croatian citizens in banks in Croatia, is 200 billion kuna, of which 164 billion in foreign exchanges, 36 billion in kunas. So Croatian citizens have a huge accumulation of savings compared to GDP of around 365 billion kuna. It is set up, the thesis can be placed that Croatia can be financed only from its accumulation, not by acting here as a poor woman and asking the European Funds what the policy of this government is about. But what are the interest rates of gentlemen in Croatian banks, what are interest rates, they are miserable from 0.20% to one year and 0.40 0.50% over two years. But what are the interest rates on the loans the banks approve? They're from 3% to 7%, so the question is whether it's worth saving citizens in banks, it's not worth it. If the banks are paid to grant loans on the basis of such accumulated savings and how it is paid. Why? Because interest on loans granted by banks to businesses and citizens relative to interest rates on deposits they receive from 15 to 30 times that. I repeat, not 15 to 30% but 15 to 30 times higher than the interest rates you can get on savings. Such banking cannot develop Croatia and such banking will keep us at the bottom of the EU. What is the distribution of credits, which is actually credited by banks, I do not speak Croatian banks because we Croatian banks have only a few, these are foreign banks in Croatia. This is the distribution of 47% of all bank loans to citizens, watch out for 47%, 33% to businesses only, 16% to the state. What kind of banking system is this? It is a banking system which means most favours citizens who buy the most import goods. Therefore, the banking system in Croatia is financing the development of other countries, addressing unemployment problems in other countries, and it is drinking the branch on which we are sitting in Croatia, it prevents development. 33% to businesses only, 16% to the state. In that sense, what happens, if you finance first of all import means you increase the balance of payments deficit, you increase external debt, and we have problems in which we are. Croatia therefore has a huge accumulation that is not used for development, for GDP growth, but for foreign imports and financing. When we add that Croatia has an foreign reserve of EUR 17 billion, which is about 125 billion, that money is 100% abroad and we finance foreign economies and foreign countries. Therefore, we have a financial system that will never develop Croatia, and you who run economic policy are still heating and supporting it. In this sense, we can say that we have a typical neocolonial anti-development model, or financial system that is of no use. We've got a new phenomenon that's cash loans that are on the rise. Why do people increase credit in cash? So many return old loans that are even more expensive and they really make this general situation worse. The CNB doesn't take steps, it has to limit these loans because it's a new trap for citizens, from this place I'm telling you dear citizens, it's a new trap for new blocked, for new purposes. I'll have a press conference tomorrow, and I'll talk more specifically. And to conclude, the Party will change Croatia constantly warns that in such a financial mechanism, Croatia's financial system will never develop, we will remain in the high-indebted zone and last place in the EU. What are the suggestions? The introduction of negative interest rates on the free money of banks that amount to about 30 billion kuna on the other side of the country must form a development fund, issue bonds to be purchased by citizens. Never before could the citizens, be allowed to buy state bonds And they earn more than the pockets of the banks. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Enough of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u124031	We are going to the fifth debate, now will speak independent representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u124032	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens. The CNB is the biggest problem in the Croatian economy and society. Moreover, it is the cause of the collapse of all our shipyards, both the Oilies and the Third May, which is the cause of the collapse of Petrokemia and of Agrokor and all other exporters, hundreds of whom have already disappeared from the market. This issue and problem must finally be opened here in Parliament and no plenary session has ever been held whose topic would be the way the CNB function. For all of this, about a month ago, I collected 34 signatures and I thank all of you who gave your signatures at the request I submitted to the president of the Parliament and the chairmans of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget to invite the governor of the CNB here to the Assembly to answer some difficult and important questions for us and for the citizens. What are the important questions? So here's the next one. Why in 2017, the first half of 2018 made a loss of 3 billion kuna instead of paying in the state budget and thus helping the state and the economy and society, it records losses. What's the other reason? The CNB increased Croatia's total and external debt by 2 billion euros, and until just a few years ago it owed 10m euros, negligible. What's the third reason? The governor met several times with representatives of the investment vulture fund, in the case of Agrokor, and did not answer questions about what he was talking to them. These issues and issues that I have raised require a public hearing and cannot be the subject of regular template reports submitted by the People's Bank here. The public hearing is an institute that is also applied by the European Central Bank, the national central bank, the American one, but the institute is envisaged, gentlemen, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Croatian Parliament and our committees. However, the President of the Parliament, Jandrokovic and the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Peric, rejected my request signed, imagine, 34 MPs and will not put it on the agenda, Mr. President, you will not put it on the agenda because some other things that will cheer the people, or the media, above all are more important. But these most important topics, they won't. What's he saying? Well, that says that both the government and this parliamentary majority, you are gentlemen in the power of the monetary institution, the CNB and the banks. It's real power, you're under their authority. That's why you're acting like one, and these are forbidden topics. You protect the interests of banks, bankers, importers and other stakeholders. On the other hand, you are behaving arrogantly, interpreting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament. Time, we'll put an end to it in the next election. I've said it countless times here, as long as we have a CNB like this, there's no front for us. And there will be no higher growth rates. Why is that? So let's be specific. Well, the cause of the collapse of both the Oilies and the 3rd. May and Petrochemia and the entire economy are too high interest. You'll agree to that. For 20 years, an unreal exchange rate. This has put these companies on their knees and we now see that some parties, whether national or regional, then shed tears over them, and they supported it. We'll never get out of this crisis until we have a CNB like this. And we'll never have democracy, you understand that. We still have the currency clause, the bonds without cover, the unintended growth of non-intentional cash loans, etc., etc. The Zagreb Economic Institute declared the CNB the most neuterant central bank in the EU 2 years ago. And what do you say in the end? This is for the party Let's change Croatia's essential question. We will also talk about the euro, which is about which the government is running a propaganda campaign together with the CNB, which is why it is supported by the governor, we will seek a referendum on the euro and we call on all opposition parties and all citizens who understand what it is because most are against, to say no. If you do not change all of this and do not intend to change the CNB, then remove the board from that building and write there instead of the Croatian National Bank that it is a currency exchange office or, if you will, another record, that it is an association of banks and importers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u124033	I only owe one explanation, since my colleague Lovrinovic called me. So, the hearing institute is not and is not intended for the Rules of Procedure of the HS, that it happens at the plenary session, but only at the resolution board, so I pointed out that, as far as I'm concerned, this initiative can be directed towards the resolution board, I'm no hostage of the banks or the banking system, and it would be fair if you were then presenting what I have told you, and not in such a way as to casually accuse someone who isn't responsible for what you're saying. Here, what do you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u124034	Mr. President of the Parliament, you're the president, so you're taking the right to comment on free performances, so I made it very clear why you refused. In your Rules of Procedure, read Art. 52nd, 52nd, the institute exists, but you don't want it. Why? Because that touches the interests of those groups that are around you, therefore, things are completely clear, we here need to start speaking openly and therefore, you are a participant.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u124035	All right, show the public my memo and then the public will judge. This brings us to the end of free debates, so let's now move on to the agenda, the first point is: - The final draft law amending the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 566; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 566. 85 Constitution and Art. 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected Drazen Bosnjakovic, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126895	Mr. President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. You are facing today the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers and the aim of this law is to actually increase salaries in the judiciary, and our judges and state lawyers because we must say that in 2013-2014 as well as others, pay bases went down 3% first, after that by 6%. Today we're actually in a situation with this one stability budget that we have, that we're actually trying to get the wages back to some more decent level. We have implemented, as you know, right here in this home, the procedure and we have adopted 6 laws that regulate certain relations with both the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, but crucially, what we did with 1.1, we have a reform that lives, so it's joined up with municipal and criminal courts, and in this way we've created actually larger units, instead of a total of 46 hundred municipal cases of criminal courts, we have 34 courts in the system today in the Republic of Croatia, and that's the first degree, which actually brought together both the violations and these competencies of municipal courts. One part of it I was able to visit and I saw on the ground that it actually gives the expected results that are pretty good, but what we wanted to do, we kind of evenly burden the judges in the trial. So here, wherever we were, that part of the judges who tried until yesterday's offense, there are possibilities and are actually already being deployed to some other cases and what we expect in this year, an even greater reduction in the number of pending cases. This in a certain way this burden of old unsolved objects has been bothering us for many years, however, trends and what would be said, the figures we have in the system are from year to year better. Before, I don't know, 10 years ago, it was a million and 600 thousand unsolved items, we're now here at some 350 grand. From year to year, we solve more than we receive and we think that in a few years' time, with all the measures we anticipate, so the digitisation of the judiciary and all those processes that we can digitise, will also lead to a reduction in the number of pending cases to a decent level, but also to the acceleration of the procedures that we are conducting. Here, one of the measures after we've brought the courts together and created a bigger way to say units and greater territorial jurisdiction through 34 courts, do we think it's necessary to go to, as far as possible, the return of that base that was reduced in 2013-2014 by a total of 9%. As you know, in the past year, we've returned the basics to 6%, this year it's 3+2%, so here and on the other hand, I think this trend that would follow means both the foundations of judges and other judicial officials, that it's actually in the spirit of all of what's going on at the whole, in the broadest, broadest sense of looking at public administrations. This law also wants to resolve an imbalance in the system, which is, we have a serious difference in the salaries of municipal judges and judges of commercial and administrative courts, where there is actually no reason for such difference because both are judges of the first degree, so this way we want to even it out. Therefore, we are also introducing coefficients so that tomorrow we can account for salaries and the High Criminal Court, the President of the High Criminal Court, who is due to live 01.01.2020. This year we've got all the prep shops left for it. Here, the law is in emergency procedure because this reform has come to life since 01.01. We've been joined by courts, in our budget we've provided funds for this, and we think the law should go into emergency procedures. Here, after the debate, I suggest we pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126896	I thank the minister. We have eight replicas. The first is an esteemed colleague of Ante Bacic's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126897	Thank you, President HS, dear ministers with a co-worker. First of all, thank you for coming here to defend this package with another law of justice in the House and congratulations on increasing the foundations and making the judges' salaries grow. Looking at statistics now lately, our courts are getting better, especially with this reform that you are doing, but we must stress that since that age of ban on employment, there has been no more serious employment of young and judges, but there are no new employment in the state's attorney's office, which I think we have been losing a quality fit that comes out of our law school, especially our young lawyers who have no access to court and state's attorneyship, so I think we should do a little better there and systematization and future employment plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126898	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126899	Your Honor, Croatia is the country that actually has the most judges and we have one trend of really reducing and number of judges and is particularly happy that with such a reduced number of judges, we are solving and reducing that number of backlogs. As you have seen, we have here and the Law on trainees and this Law on trainees, so we have kind of spread out that whole base, and besides the trainees to the primate courts and those other persons who are actually going to acquire certain knowledge in order to pass a judicial exam and from that base that we get quality, educated, professional, we will be able to fill these new personnel but in the long run I don't think that the solution in the judiciary is an increase in the number of judges and judicial officials, I think that the long-term solution is digitisation and that the judges have advisers with themselves, a small team. I think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126900	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126901	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you've come here as a true minister to ask for some more money for your men. I, as a representative, have nothing against in principle, should always reward those who work. There's one catch, though. Let me put it this way, you've come as a construction manager, you've told the investor, give us a little more money, know-how guys are neither fast nor high-quality, but at least let them be expensive. In other words, this bill doesn't show the award of those better-quality judges than those who aren't because there's a lot of backlogs, you say yourself now something like that, some houses don't finish any less, right, there are fewer cases that aren't finished, so it would be convenient for you to tell the judges in that picture, as the master said, come on while you're resting, bring bricks. So let's do a little bit more, let's get it to a decent level, let's speed up the process, and let's make it as few unsolved items as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126902	Answer, don't you want to? Thank you. Then let's go to a colleague of Alexic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126903	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Bošnjakovic, I would like to ask you something about the courts, not directly related to the subject, but it is particularly important. Recently in the media, we have had the opportunity to see that a solution is being prepared or a solution is being proposed to introduce a review procedure so that some things can be resolved much faster than they are now, that we don't have to wait for an audit, so I would ask you if it's working on that solution and if it could go public? And the second question regarding the limitation of claims on the basis of nothingness, nothing depreciates, but obsolescence of claims. From the Supreme Court judges, I've heard that they're not quite satisfied with such a solution and that we should work on new solutions regarding the limitation of claims that are linked to the damages of contract provisions and the worthless contracts and have any new directions in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126904	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126905	Your Honor, as far as this first issue and the review dispute are concerned, the procedure is under way and, in fact, an amendment to the Law on Prosecution. One of the topics of the Law on the Procedural Procedure is the introduction and better classification of provisions seen in a dispute that could greatly contribute to acceleration, there is actually a set of litigations, both factually and legally, looking at materially and through one accelerated procedure of resolving one dispute, this practice would be passed on to all others, and in fact they would quickly solve it. This is what we foresee by amending the Law on Prosecution. I would very much like to come here in a position to pass both readings by summer and change that law that way. As for the limitation of claims relating to zero contracts, the value of the contract means that there was no contract. The fundamental rule is that each party returns what it has received and here also in certain situations that have arisen to problems in practice, must be answered by the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126906	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126907	Minister, one of the biggest problems. The brakes of the development of the Republic of Croatia is the meaning of the judiciary, it is according to all the research. The most trusted people are in the judiciary and pay increases would have to be some criteria, but there would still be some criteria for those who do their job or do not work but it is a minor problem. I believe that in your reform, the reconstruction of municipal courts and state's attorneys could have saved a lot more money than the citizens, and justice like that. Community court in Sinj. The Dalmatian Zagora from Neretva to Krka has no court. And I repeat, Sinj is the center of the Dalmatian fire. It was targeted by the SDP in 2015, you continued no matter what you increased the number of courts. These are huge losses to travel and our citizens, as well as judges towards Split, they are over 200 km in both directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126908	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126909	Sinj has a very strong permanent service outside the seat of the court which is in Split and therefore the citizens of Sinj can do most of their and most of their judicial needs in Sinj. And this particular reform we have carried out, it has one provision in the Law on Courts, which says that all those acts in cases relating to permanent service have to be carried out in permanent service. So that's exactly what we want to save our citizens that they don't have to travel from certain environments to the center, but that means there are spaces in these permanent services that can work. There is a great space in Sinj, and there are judges, given the size of the meanings of space, they are constantly situated, so in Sinj we have no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126910	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126911	Dear Ministers, Croatia is in an excellent place of trust in the judiciary, 120th, between Mozambique and Cambodia while Serbia is 107th and Slovenia is 84th, and we can only dream of being in one better place. You as the most responsible justice man would like to answer one very simple question, how do you comment on the situation where the judiciary condemns the son of a general who had a lot of drugs, scales and money to work with a general good and a man who is sick, who uses cannabis oil for the cure, condemns him to jail? And these salaries that are now going to increase will not lead to things changing. In addition, you should have taken other measures that would lead to the absence of this and that citizens have more confidence in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126912	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126913	Trust will come with results. As I've told you from year to year, the number of backlogs actually decreases and I think that trust will come with it. This chart that you were talking about that we're in an excellent m and that place, it's about independence. We're going to ask for an interpretation, because we're big steps and our government, but your government that was made us to strengthen independence. And so, I don't think those scales match and they're not really an image of independence. The Croatian judiciary is independence, and this I think, if I didn't need to comment on these individual cases, every single subject is a story to myself and I would really be fenced there and that's actually a thing for the judiciary itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126914	Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126915	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, public perceptions about the judiciary are bad and we at the National Council to monitor the implemented anti-corruption strategy often talk about it, and I agree, every shift is good, and due to such shifts and reduction of the number of cases, wages should be increased by judges and judicial officials, municipal and state attorneys. But, say, is it any thought of how to discipline, say, those judges, who make, both users and society damage, for example, how it is possible that in a first degree appeal procedure, an object in the second degree is not solved for 2 or more years. How is that possible? How to discipline such judges, is that what you're thinking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126916	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126917	As far as discipline is concerned, there is no instrument there, but in the context of judicial independence, there is a State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council, which works in strict procedures, in relation to judges who do not do their job, who do not comply with the norm, which drags on cases unwarrantedly, open procedures and express measures. So I would say that perhaps even more effective than in some other segments, the judiciary reacts to such judges and ultimately these judges are very difficult and progressing if they have poor statistics. These situations you said are no longer a rule, and ultimately this number of cases that are being solved year after year. But I agree with you that the State Judiciary Council needs to sanction all of these situations and, by looking at statistics, it certainly does.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126918	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126919	Thank you very much. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed ministers, therefore, this is in one part of the law that you are dealing with that reform you have made or if we call it court-related reforms, and in one part and what has been delayed several times, i.e. the increase in the base that has been delayed several times. Very interesting today we have as 5 points of the agenda, one bill that we put on behalf of GLAS and HSU in the procedure, which has one single provision, which is how to increase the salaries of judges referred to last year, which means, depending on the number of cases solved in the previous year, there is a possibility of an increase between 10% and 30%. I'll faint if you accept it and expect it not to be accepted. But I don't even have a problem that you won't accept, let's think about it, let's think about being a model, and in some other change of law, if you decide to do something like that, it's really stimulating the work of judges, to refer to the number of cases solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126920	Thank you. Answer. Nothing. Then let's go to the last line, Comrade Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126921	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, it is good that after these reform moves in the judiciary, she is raised and paid. Because one of the preconditions for independence, for efficiency should be rewarding work. However, what is not good, that if you pay out of the same register wages to have a few basics and perhaps in the future you should think about judicial officials, and these would be judges and those who are... to the judiciary and where certain specificities of this job would be taken and to enable rewarding those who work well and also in a certain way to stay at the same pay level as those who are not effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because simply by law on paying classes, which needs to be solved by civil servants and tenants, we must also think about this sector to ensure that these people are independent, because the independent and effective judiciary is the wealth of every democratic state. Therefore, if that is our goal, then we must determine how we will reach that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126922	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126923	I agree with you, Reverend Schucker, what you've opened is actually a much broader question than what we are proposing today to these amendments to the law. The whole system should be arranged, in a way to stimulate those who work more and better, although we in the justice system have through certain other instruments, instruments of progress and all of this have certain incentives. But I'm gradually agreeing with you that we should actually look at the base, we have three basics today, one for the judiciary, one for the other officials, and the third base is for civil servants. I would be very happy to have officers working in the very judiciary that our judicial advisors are also involved in, but I would also like to raise their salaries, but they were on that basis, which last year, raised by 6%, and they are this year in the basics that were raised by 5%. But indeed, the problem is evident and needs to be worked more widely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126924	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then we will go to the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of HDZ and counterpart Marko Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126925	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with fellow respected colleagues and colleagues. In the next minutes, I will speak the name of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the draft Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, with the final proposal of the Emergency Procedure Act, which is based on Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Croatian Parliament, was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 23 January 2019, as part of the three-way government in the Republic of Croatia, the judicial authority is the third branch of government in the state and the judges are its holders. One of the basic assumptions of each democratic society is the professional and independent judicial authority. One of the preconditions of such a authority is the protection of the leaders of the judicial authorities against any kind of pressure because it is the only way that they can carry out their work in the manner of the law, which is independent, independent and effective. When we look back a few years, the causes of ineffectiveness of the judiciary could be found primarily in the existing structure of the courts. The 2017 Organizational Reform of Justice brings us 6 organisational laws that work almost a whole new network of courts. The measure of reorganisation and rationalisation of courts and state attorneys is within the Justice Reform Strategy adopted on 20 September 2005 in the light of a complete document with precise adaptation and judicial reform measures. The reorganisation of the judicial system has led to the merger of criminal courts with municipal courts, mergers and municipal criminal courts to ensure optimal use of personnel in courts and infringement courts to become departments within municipal courts i.e. Infringement department. Namely, due to the reform measures previously implemented, the number of infringement cases has dropped drastically in the criminal courts, which we can read from the figures where we see that in 2015, the number of pending cases was 69 thousand 547. At the end of 2016 56 thousand 519, at the end of 2017 was 40 thousand 737. That these reform measures are bringing results, and in other areas of the trial, it can be read from the figures that tell us next. The number of pending cases at the end of 2014 was over 600,000. The number decreased by more than 200 thousand pending cases on the day of 2018. The main objective of the merger was to ensure a more uniform burden on judges in the first degree and to strengthen capacity in the most burdensome courts, resulting in a reduction in the length of court proceedings and a reduction in the number of pending cases that we have seen happen. It has also led to the creation of new judicial areas, changes to the Constitution, the rights and responsibilities of leaders, judicial authorities and judicial officials. One of these rights is also the material rights we're talking about today. The efficiency of the judiciary has become a political and professional problem. The material strategy, i.e. the material protection of all judicial officials, is rarely affected by efficiency itself. The salary is one of the most important factors that guarantees the judge security, especially social security, and thus leads to its independence and the possibility of carrying out its duty knowingly, honestly, with dignity and honor. A regulation regulating the salaries of judges in the Republic of Croatia by the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers of 1999, which has been passed through numerous amendments and additions. I will go through chronology briefly, so not only of this law but also of the way in which the basis for calculating the salaries of judicial officials is defined. Thus, by 2009, the basis for the calculation of the salaries of judicial officials was decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and was 4873.83. Later, in 2013, the government's decision reduced the pay base by 3%. In 2014, the Constitutional Court decided, therefore, that all pay elements must be laid down by law. 2014 The government of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament, is passing a law which therefore reduces the salary base by an additional 6%. So despite the fact that this base stands for today, I'll also read the nominal amount 4443.985. Therefore, despite a significant increase in the scope of the work due to the reorganisation of the salaries of judicial officials, they have not been increased for years, therefore they have been reduced, with the salaries of municipal and criminal judges remaining lower than the salaries of judges of commercial and administrative courts. We believe that the same criteria should be set and that there should be an adequate social and material position for all the leaders of the judicial authorities and other judicial officials. According to Justice Minister Bošnjakovic, who on several occasions is also in his address, I will paraphrasise that the salaries are in the judiciary, that the salaries in the judiciary are not about judges at a satisfactory level, and also from the speech of the Prime Minister on this subject we can conclude that the salaries are not therefore high enough and that the impartiality and independence of work can only be achieved by strengthening trust in the Croatian judiciary and one such confidence-building measure is certainly both material stability and independence of judges. So in view of these two statements, we can see that the direction of the government's policy is in fact to pursue and seek to increase the basis for the calculation of salaries, thus increasing wages. I remind myself that I remind myself of the international Charter of Judges, the UN, therefore, of independence that judges must receive enough compensation for their work to ensure their real economic independence that judges in the current crisis can bear the same burden as all other citizens but that such pay must be appropriate to the duties that judges perform. As part of the CEPA research and evaluation of the European judicial system, data on the lowest judicial salary related to the gross annual salary of a first-degree judge working full-time at the start of a judicial career have been presented. The countries are grouped into 6 groups and Croatia with 21 thousand euros is in the fourth group alongside Slovenia, which has 22 thousand euros, France 24, Austria 28, Malta, Portugal, Italy, Germany and Spain. The rights and duties of judges and judicial officials are laid down by law. A systematic and multi-annual wage reduction violates the rights and duties of judges. In order to protect the material position of judges, the salaries of judges and other judicial officials should be regulated and maintained at an appropriate level. This is one proactive approach to providing material resources and a high-quality spending of funds in line with the judicial system reform process. The HDZ advocates' club will accept such a legislative proposal from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126926	We're going to the SDP representative club, dear colleague Orsat Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126927	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ma'am. Novosel, all of you nice colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. So, what? Introductoryly, of course, we support every salary increase and I'm glad that the economic indicators in the country are such that it could have come to this and that's a good thing because, especially when we talk about the judges of municipal courts, this primarily applies to them because of equality with others. So far, you've had people who've tried up to 12 years in prison, who've tried in disputes worth billions of kunas and who've done it for some 9.000,00 kn, there's a salary somewhere. So this is certainly a good step and I repeat, I'm glad it came to him and I absolutely support it. But what I think and what I'm sorry may have been missed, but maybe this was the first good step, so you can talk about it in step two, which is installing a different system of progress and a different way of paying in the judiciary. Why am I saying that? We here have a linear pay raise and still pay will remain the same to all. So radio, no radio, no radio, no radio, no radio, no radio, no radio, no pay will be the same. It's just, wherever it's applied, it's not a good system. I have already talked here several times about the need to introduce ranks in the judiciary, ranks that allow people to progress in line with the internship and the results of the work and towards which people would have, who enter the judiciary, talk about judicial officials here, have perspective and the possibility of progress. We'll have a one-time effect here because people will be happy, of course, because their salary is gone. However, we are still going back to the same problem we have today. If you're a judge or a state attorney, deputy state attorney at first degree, your salary will remain the same all your life because you don't have a chance of progress except for a senior court. So, worked, didn't work, if you don't advance to a higher court, you'll be left with the same pay, and that's the problem, because the Croatian perspective will be and must be, and it's the only logical and reduction of the number of county courts, and through that reduction of the possibility of advancement and so, you'll have people who will enter the system at 25, 26, 27 years and if they don't go to a higher court, they'll have a salary of up to 70 and so I'm going back to that before the only and the right approach is to allow the introduction of the ranks where you can advance through your career, so you don't have to move to a higher court of law, so you can do what you want to do, if you like to be in a debate, you'll be a judge, but you're going through your career and at the end of your career to get to a higher court. So that's something I'm afraid that when we miss now, there'll be no more opportunities. So whatever we're saying, the RH is going towards the crisis, it's not about the judiciary now, but the crisis is going to come. Nothing in this country, unfortunately, has started to work differently and better to justify future wage growth. That's not gonna happen. The situation in the Republic of Croatia is increasingly similar to that in 2008, and we are now somewhere in 2007, and let's not expect that there will be room for further growth. We are simply not ready for the crisis, and when it comes to it, and it will come, then the wages will come down and then what is missed now, built into a different system of wages, which, even in the event of a crisis, would give the opportunity to advance and give people the opportunity to still value their work, we missed because it is simply something that will happen to us. Look around you, the better we are or the different that when the crisis comes, when the interest increases that power will keep this pay level, we won't. So let's compare ourselves to the neighboring countries. There's a fellow Simic talking, here, we're talking about judges, we're probably going to enter the third category with this, we're talking about the salaries of beginners in the judiciary. So, beginners will have a salary like that in Slovenia or a little higher, somewhere similar to Austria, France. Let us compare the Croatian economy and the economy of these countries and consider how realistic this is in the long term. So I'm saying, I'd be a lot happier for the system if it were going with a system of rankings that would allow progress where you could actually have an initial basis for beginners now and then simply push people up, reward them and encourage them to do better work because this is justifiable, what I said, lucky that we have money now, but when the money isn't there, and that's going to happen, it's all going to go down again. I mean, let's be realistic, we're not ready for the crisis, it's going to happen to everyone, it's something that's ahead of us, whether it's coming in a year, two or three, but the crisis is going to come, there's no more consumption growth, and so, but let's let it go now, I'm going back to this. So the only good and healthy system is the one where you people kind of encourage that if they work better or more, they have more in their pocket. It's in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, we've never had that before. It's not a criticism to you now because I say we've never had it before. That's something we need to bring to the judiciary sooner or later. If we don't introduce it, you know what it's like, pay goes up, you learn about it, and that's it. So, please, think about going towards judicial ranks in the perspective not only of the judicial but of the judicial officials at all, this also applies to the state's attorneys, and that it will be paid through it related to the quality of the work. If we don't do it, we'll raise the wages, which is good for people who work, but the gunmen will still be unhappy, that's not the point. It's not the point that what you're doing, you're actually changing the normative framework, you're improving the work processes, what you're working on, you've mentioned yourself some things that will follow, but if they don't come true that all these people around us when you go outside tell you that I feel better now that I feel better, we haven't done anything. Neither you nor we here nor you in the executive power, nor us in the legislative. So that's the thing, here we're talking about judicial officials, but it's a thing everywhere and wherever we can install a mechanism, and I'm sorry that it's missed here, so at least you put it in place, so with some degree of force over time, the mechanism for knowing, working harder, you're gonna get better pay, you're going to work less, you're going to be left with this or even lower. It's just that if we don't do it, it won't be forward. And all that you've drawn up and all the laws you've passed, I'm telling you from my own experience, it won't make you the progress you want, that tomorrow as a minister, the word is better than it was. You'll be able to say it statistically, but you won't be able to affect the feeling of a citizen who won't feel it in real life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126928	Now I would like to invite my colleague Tomislav Zhagar on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club to address the assembly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126929	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so as is said in the introduction, the minister explained this in view of the reorganization of the judicial system, given the merger of courts, there was a need to even the salary of the coefficients in fact for those judges who are now increasing the amount of work, on the one hand and on the other hand because of the reductions we had in history first 3%, and then 6% of the salaries, in some ways the law seeks to pay judges back to the level they had before the name was reduced due to lack of wages. And in this sense there are no specific remarks, in this direction this legislative proposal needs to be supported and, of course, from experience, and in this assembly there has been a regular report by the state's attorney on the work, and there has been this very picture showing that the state's attorney has for years warned that his people, therefore state's attorneys, have neither adequate wages nor resources to work so they can't do their job properly. It is similar with judges, there is no stronger pressure or more pressure than economic pressure, i.e. of the few, underpaid or underpaid officials who must, and we heard here and in the introduction, I think that the discussion was mentioned by my colleague Miljanic, who makes very serious decisions, so decisions concerning both the lives and the fate of other people. What we also need to say is that every man has a sense of injustice within him, but less of those who have a sense of justice, and therefore we need justice, a judiciary that is strong and will act not by political principles, not by clientelistic but by the principles of justice and justice, and treat all citizens equally. What's today is the case we have to make it clear, it's not like that. The perception of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia is bad. This perception, as it came to it, may be that we can look for historical reasons, perhaps the current reasons, although the minister said in the introduction that the number of pending cases is reduced, as it works better, better quality, we see I followed the indexes of the work reports as here in Virovitica. So that's the county I come from, and the CR so-called. The CR index is good and that DT index about the length of the process, these are good indicators, some counties are better, some are worse, but generally the perception is that the situation in the judiciary is bad, and that, for the right to give us great affairs that occur in the media and trials that last too long and that ultimately do not have an epilogue and in fact it all comes down to the public where convicts are brought to light cameras, and then nothing happens and then people lose faith in society. Since the '90s on this issue we have been inheriting and, of course, not guilty now for this minister, he is trying to arrange it in the best possible way, but I think it will take a lot more effort for the predecessors to speak about it, so there should be clear criteria, but the question is now again how these criteria can be measured and how judges can be more honest about their work. The influence of the judiciary on the state of society is invaluable. Therefore, the influence of the judiciary has to do with all areas of society, both ultimately and economically, and so is the minister of justice responsible for the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. I say since the '90s since the conversion and privatisation, and from various bankruptcy proceedings that have not been carried out in accordance with the law, because watch out for the Privatisation Act was already at the edge of some justice, and even he was not respected by the State's audit in larger cases, however, no bankruptcy proceedings, pre-banking deals, and even the final example of the law of, so on. Lex Agrokor in which the Borg group left one truly unpleasant clue in this society. So the judiciary isn't at the level it should be at, and that's why when they come, now the judges come and beg the council to raise their salaries, and it wouldn't be a general discussion that the judiciary has been doing its job all these years. And in the end, according to the, uh, parallel to this law, we can't mention without even mentioning corruption. Corruption in the Republic of Croatia is systemic corruption, political corruption and control of corruption. It is not, it is not isolated cases, it is one process that has been going on for many years and has released networks in all areas of Croatian society. It is mentioned, after conversion and privatisation, pre-fashion settlements were mentioned. True, according to the FINA report, 45 billion kn was contracted to a settlement. But what gets the most in the eyes, and here I call on the Minister of Justice here, every year public procurement in the Republic of Croatia weighs 40 billion kn. Minister, do something on the other hand to bring corruption, especially in the area of public procurement, to sanction. We, someone here mentioned, there is a trio of power, there must be no executive authority or legislative interference in the judiciary, but you as a minister can interfere in the way of judicial administration. So let the judges have self-government, and you as the chief judge, i.e. Chief Justice, establish such an administration that the trials are fair and timely. And I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126930	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs, the one of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126931	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's very short and that's already enough of that... That's what I was going to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just like this, on behalf of the club, of course we will support it, I think we see absolutely why this law is on the agenda today, so given the implementation of the reorganisation that was in 2017 and those that came in from 01.01.2019 and the merger of criminal and municipal courts and consequently all those reorganisations concerning municipal state lawyers, so it was absolutely necessary to follow this part of the pay increase itself and, of course, if we look, that these 6% that are predicted were something that was practically reduced during those years of crisis, when there was, therefore, something actually coming back. What's good, which is a little bit more introduced to equality, so there's no difference, there's no elimination of the privileged coefficient, therefore, given the size of the job. What is certainly the point, other than this law, is certainly what we must look at, which must be the ultimate objective of any such law and any law concerning judicial authorities is a faster, or more effective, or more effective judiciary. I'm not going to say fairer because that would mean that something is unfair, it's absolutely not, but we have to look at it through 2 segments, one is the quantitative or statistical one. Here we also mentioned in the material that from 2014 to 2017 it decreased by almost 200 thousand unsolved items from 600 to 414, which is a lot again. A lot, too. We know what conditions we had to meet in the accession chapter and the number of those outstanding cases and how we dealt with them and how we reduced the statistics, but also in that qualitative part and in that part of the unification of the case law and what Milenić was saying, so neither the two brothers are the same, so they can't be the same. And there is always a difference in the quality of work, in the results of work and there is always a model to be found how to value. It's very difficult, because there's one and one objective and subjective reason. They're never the same, so they can't even be compared, or in the vast majority of cases they're not the same, we don't have a precedent, we can't spin towards the same, but surely we have to find one way to value those who want, want, can, work and do quality work than those who don't and who don't. If they're all paid the same, I was talking last week about the salaries of the Law on Civil Service and Salaries, where, worked, you don't have more or less the same salary, and then in the end, a man looks himself in the mirror and says, "I'm a fool to try for the same money, for the same confession, not even recognition, but look at me even the other way around because my head is sticking out so I just have to be careful that someone, as it is said in the people, doesn't lose it. And here we must absolutely comply with these new laws that go the same way, especially for the judiciary. The judiciary, here we have heard, colleague Žagar has now said the cancer of the early and Croatian economy and the time and inequality it creates, so we have to go absolutely and we've been doing it for a few years now and it's going in that direction, it always has to and can be faster. But we have to start from the people. When people are adequately paid for their work, when this work can be quantified both qualitatively and quantitatively, then we can also reward them and then we should introduce mechanisms that absolutely, surely, can be introduced on one clear basis, based on clear indicators and these pay differences, and in the end line and evaluation by higher bodies. This is what, where we should start first because always a satisfied worker is the one who is productive, which is good, in the end line happy worker and will certainly do much more. And judges deserve all respect, it's hard work, to decide on some human destiny no matter what level and what levels I'm talking about. It's a responsible job, and it needs to be valorised, and it needs to be invested in their independence by any one or both, as well as the financial one. Because it certainly doesn't matter what someone decides about millions, hundreds of millions or human fates for something that a man doesn't think is worth, at least financially to go home with it and sleep more or less and have someone on his soul. So every increase has been welcomed and we from the HNS club absolutely welcome this and equalization and this fairer arrangement, I see that there have been observations about second-degree judges, that they are more or less all, if I don't believe even the judges have repeated it, and I also hope that this will come in line because I understand the reason that we are now purely referring to this reorganisation that we have been following, and I just want to say that there is absolutely no stopping and we need to invest, first of all, in our people to get quality, in order to get what we really need, more efficient and efficient justice. Here's a thank you, and the HNS club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126932	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the same HSS on behalf of which counterpart Davor Vlaovic was to speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And we move on to an individual debate, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126933	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I have already noted, the Republic of Croatia is located in an excellent 120th place according to the principle of judicial independence and that is the criterion which is the criterion of perception, it does not have to be objective, but it is the perception that citizens have and it is, whether it is formed by citizens' opinions, whether the judiciary is independent of the influence of authorities, individuals or companies. On the other hand, the European Commission has also made it very clear what it thinks about the Croatian judiciary because according to the 2018 review of the situation in the area of justice. The European Commission has made it very clear that the duration of court proceedings and the number of pending cases in the Republic of Croatia is among the largest in the EU. In 2017, in the first-degree courts, the number of pending cases was reduced by 6% and the courts were then solving the oldest cases, however, the procedures are too long, the average is 884 in civil cases and 730 days in commercial cases. The EU is very clear that we have made a move here, but, unfortunately, we have not progressed better than we should have been. I don't want to get anybody out of here, but I would make it clear that one of the problems that is significant is the State Judgment Council. And the State Judiciary Council is the one who decides how judges are elected, how they answer or do not answer for bad work. As family ties are clearly strengthened, then the State Judiciary Council strengthens these ties between sons and fathers, so there's a choice of judges along the line. It is clear that citizens then do not trust the judiciary, especially as we do, we have judges who have promoted themselves to an important political factor and some of us have even witnessed, leading a sharp controversy with executive power. All this is far beyond the standards of European Western democracy and it is no wonder that citizens do not trust the Croatian judiciary. Of course, this is also the policy, and that policy that has spent the cut-off of judges in the 1990s when communists from Serbia were removed from the judiciary because they were then considered not to be able to carry out well this new, new judiciary that the Republic of Croatia introduced, and some of those judges who were then expelled from the judiciary, are now very important and very respected lawyers, so much about the quality that was then in the state judiciary. It is also the policy that sees or doesn't see and does nothing to change these things, clearly that this criticism goes to the government where I have participated, and that government can also not exculpate from the problems that have grown in the judiciary without doing everything we should have done. If the practice of judges is analysed, then it shows that in recent times judges have been making the most damage to their colleagues for mental pain, that judges are making some strange decisions, we remember the decision in Sibenik about syncope, we also remember where a man who is severely ill, whose medicine is cannabis, means that cannabis oil helps, is condemned to a long-term prison sentence that is defacto death sentence for him, and that at the same time one son of a general who has found a large amount of drugs, a scale and money, which clearly indicates that this is not for personal needs, but for further reselling, is condemned for working for the greater good. Let us also remember the case where the State Judiciary Council appointed the candidate to be a duty that she did not run for office at all and that is all that leads to the fact that the negative perception of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia is growing. The need for a debate on justice is urgent and it should be constructive and clear because in the Republic of Croatia, increasingly cases of public speech and freedom of artistic creation and the Croatian judiciary have contributed to the increase of such climate and the deterioration of the social climate and the threat of democracy. Penalties are satiated and sanctioned even those investigative journalists whose findings were confirmed by courts after many years as accurate. An increase in wages will not solve the problems of the judiciary because it is one of the mechanisms, but it should be combined with other methods or procedures. In the first row is legal regulation of the bar fees and we can do so by the German model, because the outflow of quality court personnel cannot be stopped while the profits in the law firm are up to 100 times higher than the earnings of judges. A review of the court's staff should be carried out because most of the judges are appointed by unambiguous criteria which do not guarantee the quality of the existing judges. The abolition of a life-long choice of judges because judges should be subject to criticism and criticism of their work, whether they were doing well or not, like this when they have a lifetime choice, then it is clear and their motivation to do well much less. A thorough change in the system of bodies that appoint judges as well as criteria for the appointment of judges is necessary. The current one, to repeat again, the current State Judicial Council, appoints brothers and its own descendants members of the DSV to do judicial duty, as citizens see. There is also a need for Minister Bosnjakovic and the most responsible, to lay down procedural rules that fully excludes the delay in court proceedings. The introduction of modernisation of work in courts, the introduction of efficiency, the increase of income and the differentiation of judicial staff according to their impact, while reducing legal tariffs, will contribute to making the Croatian judiciary much better. The democratic stance is very clear, every citizen must have the opportunity to use the judiciary independently of his social and property status, if today in Croatia he is not. Croatian courts today have one measure for the sons of the generals and another measure for the other citizens. This is inadmissible and this has destroyed the confidence of Croatian citizens in the Croatian judiciary. The problem of Croatian justice is the indetermination of many laws, unequal case law, slowness and ineffectiveness, but the biggest problem of Croatian justice is corruption. Therefore, those judges caught with their hand in jam should be removed from duty and sanctioned. In order to begin, it is necessary to introduce transparency in the choice of judges and to enable public interest during the election of judges in the State Judicial Council, civil oversight should be introduced, over the choice of judges in the State Judiciary Council. As long as the Croatian judiciary is ruled by the dynasty system of inheriting judges, father to son or daughter, as long as the State Judiciary Council protects the trouble, the bad judge and there are no clear rules, the system cannot be arranged. The increase will help reduce the perception of corruption, but will not lead to a solution that should lead to it. As long as the verdict is more important, whether you're the General's son or an ordinary mortal, we can't discuss the order of the judiciary. The judiciary at this point, Croatia needs to be ventilated and what is proposed by this law is just maintaining the existing state and rewarding for unhappiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126934	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126935	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mrsic, when we talk about judges, we will remember, you say, their decisions regarding the syncope, which actually happened in the case of a judge. Of course that syncope actually attacked a lynch of that judge who decided on it. But I'm surprised, and it's not correct to say that you do, because you know that the judge in this case has decided on the basis of medical documentation and judicial expertise, so the doctor who said it was syncope. And if, then, someone, in that case, should have been convicted publicly, then it would have taken that doctor or the court expert, and certainly not the judge who actually made one decision, based on that judicial skill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126936	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126937	Witching can be thrown away in court. I was an expert in some things, so I know that. Therefore, the position of the court is d but will accept the position of the witches and his opinion or will seek someone else and someone else's opinion. Therefore, the extraction of a court expert, who concluded this way, so that on that basis, you can make a verdict, where you say two people died because you had a syncope, is something that doesn't hold water. Any skillful, prone audit, skillful, which, when you're in court, the court may accept, and may reject. Why the judge didn't, why she accepted it and didn't throw it away, whether it was properly or not assessed by the opinion of one or the other, the fourth witch, as much as it takes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126938	The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126939	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, you mentioned several Croatian judiciary failures, I will base myself on only 2, so conversion and privatisation and later the biggest corruption case in the Republic of Croatia, this is FIMA MEDIJA. So the same two processes are seen as no one, I don't know, or a very small number of cases, which ended up in some kind of judicial... and especially those who are condemned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ugl. Today, prominent entrepreneurs, who even laugh at us, laugh at us, and you know what's most dangerous right now, I noticed in talking to the citizens, again, fear has entered into the citizens, in this country criminals feel safe and citizens feel threatened and afraid. Citizens are afraid to talk on the phone, citizens are afraid to talk on coffee, they feel like they're being followed, they're being tapped. I even heard from a young man, that he, these cameras on his cell phone, covered it with duct tape. It's not good and it's not a good message for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126940	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126941	Thank you very much, dear colleague Sagar. If a certain fear had gotten in between the citizens, that's what I feel, and you're a public person, so people are talking to us, so the phones are shutting down, the batteries are coming out, and it's something that the government and most of the most responsible for that should change, and it can only change if people have confidence in the system, that someone won't follow you, that someone won't condemn you, because you don't have political protection, or that you're not a member of a particular party and there's no party card. The fact is that stalling the process, we see the process that was in Zadar, about the person who beat up a young girl, that we are not doing his commercial now, and that's what Minister Bosnjakovic can change, so the law needs to reduce that possibility of stalling and stop it. So let's look west, three debates, a verdict, and then you can stretch that into us for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126942	Thank you. The next debate will be that respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126943	Thank you, Vice President. A little bit now would just take advantage of this subject about what, I mean to all of us citizens and anyone who, anyone who had their day in front of the court in this way, in one way or another, has seen it. And they're rare, unfortunately, they're rare individuals or companies, however they've had something really much to say for their part, honor the exceptions. Why am I saying that? First of all, this part of financial independence is a basic prerequisite for one unsuspecting, responsible decision for uninterrupted work, and we certainly must provide it for our judges. What we all know is that some objects have been going through for years, some discussions are scheduled every 5, 6 months, and we need to find a model of how to stimulate and ethics in the work, but certainly how to reward quality work and especially one that is both efficient and as regards at least the time period. Because this uncertainty, especially when we consider some legal changes where we have a situation that we have turned into a dispute and while we have come to some decision, and even a powerful one, the law on this issue could already have changed several times, which, of course, when we talk about procedures in front of a trade court extremely, extremely creates a bad investment climate. So someone wants to bring money here, wants to know that for any objection, complaint, complaint of any act that they need to carry out their investment will be resolved quickly, that this funding will not endure, that absolutely all of them and later possible work disputes or whatever else it has in the very purpose, that is, in the very sense of doing this job that will come to a fair, quick settlement. Even for our citizens, it is no longer such a problem for entrepreneurs to welcome an unfavorable verdict, or to get an unfavorable verdict as to what kind of a problem it is already to welcome. And that legal uncertainty is what cancer is. I don't know what direction it's going in, no one can say because the inequality of court practice and above all, the epilogue is always meant through various models let's say a sort and non-response of responsibility by senior courts where they largely do not alter judgments and do not stand behind that but return to or re-determination or complementarity. We need to take responsibility, we need to speed it up, and I think it's clear to everyone, and we all agree. Of course, one of the preconditions is to work qualitatively on the very people who do so, on judges, on officials who are heavily overloaded and who have a feeling and are likely to be underpaid. But we must make a difference between those who know, will, can and do and adequately reward it and adequately draw it out as an example from those who do not. Because it can't be that someone has the same salary for work as the one for something much less work, I won't say no work. That can't happen anywhere and not especially in the judiciary. And that's the basis. Let's start by saying that people are satisfied, that they know that they'll have as much pay as they can, as much as they can do, that they'll have as much pay as they can and that they'll be motivated and independent financially for their work and that they're not interested in then any repercusion or I don't know what it means or who's going to give them what, God forbid, that's how it's supposed to be done. And there's always a man who needs to start with the system first. Because we have a system that generates people like that. Because everyone doesn't want to look at themselves in the mirror and say you're a fool, you kill yourself, and you kill yourself for the same pay as the one who comes in anyway does something, make, make an appointment, change and let's move on. Both in this and in everything else. So every step we take, every reorganization we make, every shift is welcome and needs to be as much and as best and as quality as possible. Because this is something that really is when you look at that perception of citizens, when you look at that perception of citizens, when you look at any kind of polls that are burning problems, of course when corruption is said and then, of course, immediately after that, you find the speed of solving the case. Not even the quality of being alone, but the speed that's so frustrating people. Of course, everyone wants it settled in his favor but more and it becomes less important to them than the procedure itself. And what's she doing? That's what keeps people from being tried. Who's gonna deal with it, who's gonna pay that huge expense? People just give up. And that's the main problem. We have a better and more efficient judiciary and therefore any proposal that will bring it and certainly also pays the judges, and thus not only pays the basic but also the possibility of advancement and financial rewarding. We know that there are no excessive possibilities of progress within the judges themselves and given the organization they are. We don't have 15 different paying classes that should go safely in this direction so that surely those who work, who do quality work, whose judgments don't come back from higher courts and those higher courts also need to know sometimes take responsibility, and if they already see something that isn't the way to change and bring final justice. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126944	Thank you very much. I see my colleague Bulj has raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126945	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break, because it's a subject, we'd have to consult, which is very important, it's a judiciary. Here we are talking about increasing wages in the portfolio which is the biggest problem of the development of the Republic of Croatia and the biggest mistrust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is in the judiciary. As long as we have some PR proposals here to raise wages where we have unequal judgments, for example. someone because, dealers who, with the most difficult drugs, are freed or given charity work, others because marijuana is tried for the purposes of the disease and with the most difficult judgments. We're talking about justice here, we're talking about a very important problem here, we have harmful laws for the judiciary that this minister proposes and re-shuffled the courts. Like what? We do not have a single court in the Dalmatian Zagora, so in many areas of the Republic of Croatia, which does much more damage to the judiciary and huge money for citizens who have to travel in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, where they have to travel 100km, pay for it, judges have to travel and that's the problem. The problem is that we're the most corrupt country for justice. The judiciary is an unequal practice, and everyone sees it, and the president reacted to the ministers. These are the key problems. You say we raise wages, yes, the European elections, the tribune voting body, but it's the judiciary, we're the state that has the worst judiciary in the EU. And these laws and pirate ministers won't do anything to make these cases the hardest drug dealers are on the loose, but the people who grow for the disease you're being punished. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126946	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take a break. I'll see you in 11 and 45 minutes. [[It's 11:00.33.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.45 HOURS]] Here's a respected colleague and co-worker, the break is over, and we'll proceed in order and now they'll speak to the esteemed representative, Hello, Ronko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126948	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, here we have heard a lot on this subject today, and I will not talk about organisational reform of the judiciary because, in my opinion, it should actually be one right, serious, broad, comprehensive reform, and I will not talk about legal regulation as it was because it is certainly subject to these changes, given that all of this has been done here and it has been patched up and done and it should also need one of its comprehensiveness. I'm not going to talk about equating municipal judges with judges of trade and administrative courts because it's been eaten with common sense at the very least. I am not going to talk about the work and the pawning and the efforts of the judicial officials because I am glad enough to speak that information about the trend of reducing the number of pending cases and reducing the duration of the court proceedings, 2014. - 2018 with cca 200,000. I'm not going to talk about monitoring the work and evaluating with those famous two decimals, and I'm not going to talk today about independence, the need for independence and the unburdenedness of judicial officials, especially municipal judges, who now have 80% of the judicial cases. I won't talk about the responsibility of judges who are in matrimonial property, the recognition of property rights, who speak or who judge children, judge them in criminal acts up to 12 years, and I won't compare them with any lawyer in our very administration, or I won't compare them with lawyers in state-owned companies who have higher salaries than such judges, and it's known for which job. I'll talk about material rights or material rights more precisely this time. So here, after a long series of years there since 2009, here's a chance, or at the dock, that's an intervention to raise wages that have been reduced to 3 times by over 10%. So, this proposal would now, according to this proposal, turn out to return the base approximately to 2013 so on 4,710 kuna. When will be returned on the basis of 2010. 4,870 kunas that dear God doesn't know. And when we talk about the material rights of judges, that's all they have. And what don't they have? They don't have a gift for kids, they don't have a Santa, they don't have a Easter, they don't have a resurrection, they don't have a regression. Minimum to say 7,500 kuna. Judges don't have jubilee awards, minimum of some 5,000, they don't have loyalty awards, you know that for 30 they have 4% higher salaries, at 35 8%, not at 35 years and 10%, with 30 8%, and with 24 is 4 4% on pay, that's a very high amount. I'm not against it. I'm just saying it's not the judges. They don't have any severances, you know that some severances in both FINA and HEP go from 200 to 300,000 kuna. Do you know they don't have, I mean you know Ministers but I'm talking to myself, do you know they don't have the right to a periodic physical medical examination, and we want a healthy judiciary. There's something wrong with me. They have no right to help through humanitarian action and support in all forms of suffering and endangering their social status, I mean in the case of severe illnesses, deaths, difficult social situations, any judicial officials, or members of their families. Like, for example, an official of the MUP, or of the officials and deputies of the MORH and the Armed Forces, who have their own foundations with the accumulated core capital that came from the state budget, which have in their trusts and gifts and donations, and even parts of the state-owned companies' profits I speak in their foundations. In conclusion, I don't take much time, so the judicial officials don't have a collective contract and they don't have any other material rights except here's the pay. So I will propose, first of all, through the amendments, I will propose to return the basics to them first, but on the one of 2010, that is 4,873,83 kuna, secondly I will propose to provide them with a free systematic medical examination every 3 years and thirdly that the employer will pay for each judicial official in the third pillar of the Mirovinski Insurance pillar of up to 5.00 kn per year, that is the untaxable amount, which, through this or in such a way, would show both that jubilee and that solidarity and that loyalty and that sort of severance. That's it, and I'll take the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126949	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126950	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable MPs, MPs, respected ministers, on this subject should in no way be ignored that the responsibility of judges is very large, he would dare say enormous and it irrevocably influences judicial lives. Without discreet judges, it is impossible to achieve a righteous society. Greater salaries for judges must certainly be welcomed, but not unconditionally, not unconditionally. So, if the judges' salaries are increased, there simply has to be a better way to take greater responsibility for the wrong decisions that take place. One guilty decision endangers families, endangers people's lives and cannot be put aside when we talk about increasing the salary of judges. It must not be allowed for individual judges not to judge by Croatian laws, to ignore the positive rules of the Republic of Croatia and in different ways, different schemes and manipulations, to avoid positive Croatian regulations. They must be aware that their decisions, when they are guilty and irresponsible, endanger human lives. If we are talking about curbing corruption in society, and we know that corruption in Croatian society is one of the major problems and if we are talking about resolving corruption, then corruption should primarily be resolved in the Croatian judicial system. So he must first come to order, and only then other elements because the Croatian judicial system must reflect honesty, justice and the rule of law. State Judicial Council in 2017 A total of 9 decisions were taken, of which 5 proceedings were suspended, in 3 judges were fined, and in one judge was relieved of judicial duties. The most common punishment for judges is a fine. Very rarely, the State Judicial Council reaches out to measures to resolve its duties. So as long as the State Judiciary Council isn't stricter, he would say more strictly to the irregularities of the judges, we can't expect the responsible conduct of the judges. It should certainly be noted that the authorised applicants for a tight procedure are the presidents of the courts. Now, if they are authorised applicants, how can it be expected that the presidents of the courts will often, when they see certain irregularities, report their fellow judges, even if it is some major parts, corruption, lobbying and obvious private interests, in this context, these private lobbyes, they seek to achieve the independence of the president of the courts and create an interesting structure within the judiciary itself, so that these dirty transactions are done. My question is, how long has the State Judiciary Council filed proceedings against the President of the Court? I don't know about those cases, I personally don't know about those cases, and that's the key question. So how many of the State Judiciary Councils have initiated proceedings against the Presidents of the Courts? As for the Croatian judiciary, according to data obtained by the European Commission, the Republic of Croatia is at the first place in the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, two years ago we were in second place, behind Slovenia. The number's moving around 1764 judges. So on this data, we can conclude that quantity has nothing to do with quality. Our judicial system towards efficiency is one of the worst in the EU. It's not the data that I'm now, it's not my subjective opinion. So these are official data from the European Commission, whether by the independence of the judiciary, whether by the efficiency of the judiciary. The length of the proceedings is one of the huge problems and I believe that measures should certainly be concrete in order for judges to be more effective. For a first-degree verdict in litigation and trade procedures, it takes about 380 days on average, and in developed EU countries only a few dozen days. For me, it is personally disturbing and devastating, and I believe that my opinion is shared by a number of Croatian citizens. In the Republic of Croatia, we have 58 first-degree courts and 122 of them, and 18 appeals, which means that we have 152 presidents and their deputies and about 440 department presidents and their deputies, representing at least 30 300 less resolved cases each year. So we have a total of about 592 judges who are freed from solving objects entirely or to a significant extent. The question arises, perhaps it's one of the reasons for long-term proceedings. Did you think what you'd solve in that case to rationalize these presidents of the courts, means that they have some function greater than she is now and not that they're there for decorations and on the other hand their salaries are also increasing. So we see that the salaries and the presidents of the courts are increasing. I'm certainly not up to the rate where the presidents' salaries will be increased. I agree with that, let the salaries of municipal judges and county judges increase, they are minor and I believe that they should increase but should not be more supervised by their verdicts and without greater control because we see that the Croatian judiciary is extremely exposed to lobbying and corruption. On the other hand, we cannot and must not ignore the perception of citizens according to the judicial system. People in charge should not be downplayed by the opinion of Croatian citizens and the opinion of Croatian citizens, more than 70% of them are that the Croatian judiciary is dysfunctional, that it is ineffective, that it is ineffective and that it is bad and you cannot declare that the perception of Croatian justice is negative only because of a couple of exposed cases, it is not responsible because these statistics are not only because of a couple of negatively exposed cases but rather because of the experience of Croatian citizens with courts. He would also welcome the measure of public publication of the property cards of judges, as we all responsible state officials in responsible positions must publicly publish our property cards, but in this context he would ask why individual judges object to such measures. Judges should be in the interest of transparency, not that judges object to the publication of their property cards. What message is being sent to Croatian citizens who do not trust the Croatian judiciary anyway and then to other institutions? I believe that in this way the Croatian judiciary will not move for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126951	Thank you very much. The next individual debate, and I'm sorry, we have one replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126952	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Skibola, here you are as an economist one replica, I agree with you and therefore the perception of the public and the judiciary is very bad. Even in public some, even the professional public spoke about the bankruptcy mafia, so in that context I will now ask you a question as an economist. Today's news, Zdravko Cupkovic, the interim bankruptcy manager on May 3rd, stated in his report that the shipyard meets one of the bankruptcy reasons, incompetence to pay but that it is not insolvently or over-indebted but currently unable to pay. This says, watch out, and it's good, let's give the Third May to come to the investor but this says that we can't talk about an independent judiciary, but in this case, it's a good decision to win time, but the assumption is that most of the decisions of the judiciary are made by politics, by pressures, by various pressures on the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126953	The answer of the esteemed member of the Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126954	Thank you, Mr. Sagar, for this replica, I would not specifically enter this May 3rd case, but we certainly must agree with you that the Croatian judiciary is not as independent as it should be. And even this notion of independence of the Croatian judiciary, it can also be interpreted in both a positive and a negative way because you have in the Croatian judiciary, there are situations that mean that within this judicial system, this judicial caste, a part of the judicial caste together with the presidents of the courts agree on certain things in order to benefit certain interesting lobbys and now may not necessarily have been influenced by politics but has influenced the interest and money and certain other elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126955	Thank you. And now, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative of Ines Strenja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126956	I thank and welcome the chairman, I welcome the minister with a co-worker. Lastly, on behalf of the Most Independent Lists, our comment on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officials whose proposal is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this bill proposes to increase the basis for calculating the salaries of judges and other judicial officials of 6%, equalising the coefficients of judicial officials in the judicial bodies and leaders of the first-degree judicial authorities and providing for coefficients for the president and judge of the High Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia which will establish from 1 January 2020. As one of the reasons for increasing the coefficients for first-degree judges in the interpretation of the law, you cited an increase in the jurisdiction of municipal courts, however, MOST considers that, without increasing the jurisdiction of municipal courts, there was a serious foundation and need to settle the questions of judges' salaries. Although it is not popular to advocate the increase in wages in the public sector, this is a very specific category that cannot be seen and compared with other public services, and therefore the MOST wants to approach this topic very reasonably. Although, in essence, MOST also advocates the regulation of the Court's pay system in its proposals, which would mean an increase in wages for certain categories, the starting point for this kind of thinking is not that the scope of municipal courts' affairs has increased, therefore, by joining the jurisdiction of infringement courts, e.g. but that the inequality in the remuneration of judges has caused over the years a series of unwanted consequences and the inequality has to be resolved, not only in the first degree, as proposed in this proposal, but also at the second stage. It is important to stress that we support the unification of the coefficients of all first-degree judges, as this is proposed here, regardless of the type of court, but also strongly advocate the unification of second-degree judges. It could actually be established that we primarily advocate a second-degree review of the wage system. It is not clear why she did not touch Pandora's box, now that this law is changing, it is clear that there was no political will. Strong lobbys in the judicial system do not allow this topic to be opened, however, we must be aware that this inequality in judges' incomes at a second stage is still to be resolved. The injustice that is taking place to favour a particular group of judges contributes to a poor working environment, an unequal status and the position of judges. To better understand the problem, we need to look briefly at our second-degree network of courts. Today's second-degree trial system is quite fragmented and has not proved to be the best solution in many segments. From the creation of unwanted clans, concentration of power, inability to advance, inequality in the status of judges, etc. Currently, second-degree courts, county courts that judge in the second degree, the High Court of Commerce, the High Administrative, the High Violent, the newly established High Criminal Court and the Supreme Court when tried in the second degree. So the judges of the county courts were discriminated against by others, to all others. The judges of the county courts have significantly more cases in work and are outnumbered by judges of other secondary courts. Also, the standard to be met by judges of county courts is higher than the standard of other courts in the second degree. This inequality doesn't make sense and it's about discrimination against judges. The primary territorial concentration of higher courts makes it impossible for a large number of judges to specialize and advance. The judge of the Administrative Court in Split will not make any easy progress at the second stage since it is the only place where it can advance in Zagreb, and the same applies to judges of commercial courts, criminal judges, and soon to be punished. The rights and obligations of judges differ from court to court. When we look at the second stage, it is undeniable that judges bear equal responsibility and make equal efforts to carry out their duties regardless of whether they judge in administrative disputes or civil litigation. On the contrary, as previously stated, judges who have a significantly higher volume of work have been paid less, and the inequality of judges and concentration at one location, the suspension of material rights and status in the system contributes to negative selection, non-transparency, dissatisfaction of judges and ultimately, an unquality working environment So, MOST can't support a bill like this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126957	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected minister, Drazen Bosnjakovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126958	Honorable MPs and MPs. I thank all those who participated in the debate, whether they support the law or not. As far as I'm concerned, most people agree with this measure of needing the salaries of judges, in fact, the basics of the pay increase because they're actually down on several occasions. The work being done is very difficult, very complex, very responsible. There were, of course, a lot of words about perception, we understand that the perception of the judiciary is not positive, but what we insist on is this good trend to solve more cases than we receive in the system annually, I will repeat in the last few years we receive over a million and 200 thousand items. It's all settled, and it's getting rid of more than that to keep the backlogs down. There have been words here that it's not enough to actually improve the whole situation, we realize that this is not a measure that will make prosperity tomorrow and that will change perception. She's just one in a row, what we've done, we've reconstructed the network, which we think will lead to judges being equally burdened and what we're actually going to insist on is digitization. Digitalisation has not been done as it has been done so far in other segments in the broadest sense of public administration, we will insist on it and it will create assumptions that we will be even faster. Thank you all for the debate we're having.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126959	Thank you very much. Here's another replica. The Honorable Representatives of the Shooting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126960	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. Therefore, equating the status of appeal courts, thus and the status of second-degree judges is one of the key preconditions for further development of the judicial system, but we forget from reform to reform to open the subject of salaries of officials in courts and state attorneys. Judges and state attorneys and advisers work for embarrassingly low wages, and notaries, notaries and other administrative staff at courts and state attorneys work for wages that are truly embarrassingly low. Although this matter is not the subject of this law, we do not see that this government plans to do anything about what it says enough in which place the government's priority is the judiciary and all those who work in that system and that is my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126961	Thank you, the answer of the respected Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126962	Thank you very much. I have repeatedly spoken on the subject of officials and deputies in the judiciary, it is, their salaries are subject to some other laws, not this law which is here and representatives of the Ministry of Justice participate in all the working groups that work on it, and we advocate that these salaries be increased in order for these people's work to be objectively valued. And on that side, we'll keep up. As you know, the salaries of civil servants and tenants in last year's base went up 6%, this year it's 3+2% which is absolutely not enough to actually lead to some balance between the work that people are actually investing in and what they're receiving. And we will continue to advocate that it be better valued than it is so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126963	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Protection Act, the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the payment of judges and other judicial officials, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 566. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendment was submitted by Zdravko Ronko. I would ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, which will be the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, the respected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126965	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. Finally, the bill provides for an increase in the base, for the calculation of the salary of judicial officials of 4000 710 kuna 595, which is an increase of 6% compared to the basis of the prescribed current law on the amount of 4000 443 kuna. Taking into account also the increase in the wage coefficients of individual judicial officials provided for by this law from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, it is not currently possible to provide funds to further increase the basics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126966	Your Honor, Agent Ronko, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126967	The Honorable Secretary of State, precisely because judges and judicial officials, except for the naked salary, have neither a gift for children nor a Christmas certificate, a resurrection and a jubilee reward or a reward for a 10% salary, no severance fees, no periodic periodic medical examination, no right in the event, support and assistance of the disease, either because of an accident or because of a social threat, I suggested that they return that naked salary to 2008 on the basis of 4873 kuna. Secondly, I suggested that they be provided every 3 years with a free periodical medical examination and a third, to pay each of them to the untaxable 5000 kn per year in a third pension column, so that at least one symbolic way would show concern and respect for one of the highest pillars of our government. When I proposed, I knew the amendment wouldn't go away or that the amendment wouldn't go away, but it wasn't enough for me, let others know, so I would ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126968	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126969	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 566. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Agent Zdravko Ronko. We agreed on the amendment at the session, the government doesn't accept it, and then we'll vote on that amendment, please let's vote. He did not receive the required number of votes, and I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, please vote. With 100 votes ZA, 13 abstentions and one vote against, we passed the Law amending the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126970	Now we're going to move to the next point, that's: - Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, first reading, P.Z. No. 558 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, would the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Justice Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In front of you, the Law on the Judicial Academy, an extremely important law, is actually an extremely important institution. We have to know, a little bit here, often to say, in history, once the judicial academy, was an integral part of the Justice Department, it was organized as an institution at the Justice Department. And then we actually decided during the negotiations on obtaining EU membership status, we decided to raise it to a much higher level, because it was necessary to ensure objective and transparent criteria, in order to even enter the judiciary, in order for someone to be the holder of a judicial duty. It was necessary to make objective and transparent criteria, but then it was also necessary to determine certain forms of education and the development of the skills of those entering the judiciary in order to be as ready as possible to get into such a thing. Then for the first time we defined the judicial academy, if the central place in the judiciary, therefore, one institution, within which would acquire those initial actually skills, to carry out these important jobs tomorrow, but in fact one whole life education of judicial officials, because justice like all parts of the system are changing, new laws are passed, and it is actually necessary through education, to allow judges to apply it tomorrow. The judiciary is, the judicial academy is defined as an independent body, therefore, separated in some way from politics, managed by the most prominent, responsible judicial officials through the administrative council and on the other hand, it is extremely important that it works well, because it should respond to all the things that actually appear in the peach. It should mean, all those issues, give certain answers, how to resolve them tomorrow in practice. And that's why it's important for us, that actually judicial officials, on the one hand, when they become, when they want to become, they actually have the opportunity and the obligation to go through a judicial academy, if they were actually as many as possible, to educate and develop these skills. Because being a judge, being a state's attorney, it's not really a simple profession, it's an occupation that actually requires one maybe different way of life than some other. What is allowed to others, judges and state lawyers, is not permitted, they can neither be members of the supervisory board, nor any such innuendo, they must, by their example, and by the way of life, cause one respect in the environments in which they are. Here, today there is a new law, which offers us certain changes, and these changes are actually primarily aimed at one more efficient and easier management of the judicial academy, and we now have a proposal for the composition of the governing council, which is a bit narrower, which should be more efficient, which should be more elastically accessible, to problems. In addition, it proposes to extend the programme council, which it is precisely to feel, was actually the judiciary itself, where it is necessary to intervene in the programme's actual content and which should offer those points of the programme that are very supportive in practice where further education is needed. Also, here j special attention is also devoted, so that there is no conflict of interest between those who are in the programme council and the board of directors, so that they do not come to the test, that those topics that are being worked tomorrow in workshops, that they are actually those who will also teach and make money on it, this is actually supposed to be a pro bono, so that we do not enter into such a potential area of conflict of interest. What is important here is that all counselors, who will be found, who are in the system, will be bound to spend a year inside the judicial academy. But to explain that right away, it's not really sitting in student benches and learning a theory for which they all have a degree in college, and they also confirm that they passed a judicial exam. It's the development of those skills, which the judge and the state's attorney should actually have in themselves. So it's not enough diploma, it's not enough that someone passed a judicial exam, he has to have the ability to manage one debate, carry that authority and show it the best way possible. State lawyers, therefore, also when they come into those proceedings, where they have to press charges, where they have to make decisions of the state's attorney, they also need to be able to deal with it, and it's actually the job of the judicial academy, to develop exactly such methods and to develop such abilities, in the future holders of judicial duties. We suggest that after the debate, we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126972	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I'm sorry, there was a replica, the respected representative of Ante Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126973	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The minister has one request that I received, so let me just ask you, regarding the article. 28 and 29, which regulate the completion of the final exam at school, says that people who did not attend the school can also join, but after having passed the judicial exam and after at least 4 years of working on legal affairs, and we also have opportunities for people who later leave to take only a judicial exam and have more experience in legal work, so why could this change a little bit, and again this is somehow inaccessible and acquired rights, so Article 29 states that the final exam can only be passed twice. What's the limit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126974	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126975	We think that twice is quite enough, as far as this is concerned, it has actually shown in the course of practice that this is a good solution that someone doesn't have to go through the whole school, if they have a certain background and if they have a certain practice in which we already have the experience of having an opportunity to get acquainted with certain actions. In those beginnings, however mandatory, it was mandatory to attend school, but this was from some practical solution to allow those who had experienced practice over the past four years, were in it, participated in it, that this could be a solution to go to this exam afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126976	Thank you, as the rapporteurs have not taken the floor, then I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to the esteemed representative, Marija Jelkovac, please. I'm opening an argument with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126977	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues here I warmly welcome you all. As for what he said in the opening statement, the minister here, I'm going to briefly recapitulate it from the very time of the law's first time. The Law on the Judicial Academy was adopted in 2009, it entered into force on 1 January 2010, and the Law of the Judicial Academy was established as a special public institution that organises and implements the initial training of candidates for judicial officials, professional training of trainees and advisers in judicial bodies, and continuous professional training of judicial officials. The law also established two founding units of the Academy, which are the State School for Judicial Officers of Units, which organises and implements the training of trainees, advisers and judicial officials, while the bodies of the Academy are directors, administrative councils and programme councils. To date, the law has seen certain changes in 2010 and 2015, and related to the procedure of enrolment and the completion of the final exam at the State School. Thus, by amending the law in 2010, the procedure for enrolment and carrying out the final exam at the State School was entrusted to the State Judicial Council for Judges and to the State-law Council for Deputy State Lawyers. The amendments and amendments to the 2015 Law to the procedure for enrolment of candidates in the part-round work of the State Judicial Council and the State-Law Council have been transferred to the Commission for the implementation of the tender, which has effectively relieved these two councils of these matters, and in order to make them more committed to their constitutional obligations, which is the selection and appointment of candidates to judicial duties, i.e. the appointment of judges or deputies of state lawyers. The conduct of the final exam at the school was entrusted to the Commission for the conduct of the final exam as a special body whose members of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice appointed the administrative board of the Academy. In view of the fact that, so far, certain reforms have been implemented within these areas, since the current system of implementation of professional training within the Academy has also shown certain shortcomings and the possibility of improving access to this proposal. This new draft law proposes to prescribe the obligation to attend school and to pass a final exam for all persons admitted indefinitely to the position of advisers in judicial bodies for a year. The advisers found in the judicial authorities on the date of entry into force of this law were given the opportunity to choose between attending the school and passing the final exam. School participants will have their mentors, who will monitor their work and assist them in their professional training. Also, the mentor won't be able to be anyone he'll have to have passed the mentor's exam and that mentor's work should be paid in a certain way. When planning a programme for professional training of judicial officials, it is also proposed to take into account the individual needs of judicial officials, the needs of the system and the greater representation of the various branches of law with the education of legal areas to enable and develop and strengthen the necessary skills. It is also proposed to improve and upgrade the system of continuous training of judicial and judicial officials and officials in the field of justice, as well as to expand the professional training activities for other target groups of participants, which is, in fact, the academy of the day and the possibility of obtaining its own income. The final examination committee would consist of two Supreme Court Judges and 1 High Court Judges and 2 Deputy Chief State Attorneys. They would be appointed by the Administrative Council for a term of four years. The final exam would consist of a written and oral part, and candidates could win a maximum of 300 points after the final exam. It also allows candidates to launch an administrative dispute against the assessment decision if they are unhappy with it. The examination may also be attended by persons who do not attend school, but after having passed the judicial exam they have at least 4 years of working experience on real jobs. This is what the minister explained, a solution that has so far proved to be effective in practice. So it's good not to change it. The exam can be conducted twice, and the first time the costs of exams are borne by the Academy of Students of the School. What is also important to say that, in fact, in the budget for this year, there is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of this Law for the reason that, in the budget, regular funds for the regular functioning of the Judicial Academy have been provided. Since the Law should actually enter into force on 1 July 2019, it will not need that additional funding. Here, it's about the bill. We believe that the proposal is good and that it will in some way achieve better effects in the preparation of future judicial officials on, I would say, this very responsible call because being a judge and a state lawyer is not only an interest, but rather a choice of a life call that has certain rules that a person must adhere to in his daily life. Thank you very much, the HDZ Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126978	Thank you very much. In the name of the club of the HNS representative, the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126979	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, here, today is our package of judicial laws. Very, I think, briefly, now not to repeat, of course, the HNS Club will support this proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, as stated in the very explanation. So, the meaning of this Law above all, is that it would just improve the education of judicial officers and officials and as well as the formation and part-time work at the Judicial Academy, in fact, where we said, where we have heard that the reduction of the number of members of the Governing Council from 9 to 7, while also increasing the number of members of the Programme Council from, I think, 12 to 13 members with it prescribed that they could not be the same person in both. As for the very core of the change, it says that it generally prescribes a commitment from attending a school for a year and the obligation to pass a final exam for all persons admitted to the state service and, indefinitely, and deployed as advisers. Namely, and of course, for advisors who are in the system, the choice between the school and the final exam is possible. We've had a situation before, so if we look at it since 2009, then when they were being edited in 2010, last I think in 2015, when this topic was being edited, that actually when the judges were appointed to the courts of the first degree, or the municipal state attorney's office was prescribed just for the completion of the state school, it was transferred to the State, entrusted to the State Judicial Council, or to the State Attorney's Council, and then the commission was established, etc. and we had the possibility that, in fact, the candidates could choose whether to pass the school or those who did certain legal work for a certain duration gained enough experience, went directly to the exam. So here, first of all, we have one targeted education and everything with what I've said earlier today, and I'm going to have a little short on this subject and in an individual touch, with a faster, better, more efficient, more quality judiciary and certainly there is a need for education, but I say once again and in an individual I'm going to talk a little more about this continuous education in terms of lifelong learning, in terms of lifelong training, especially professional training once things are put in place. The HNS Club, of course, will support this change if any change that leads to achieving a higher level of quality and the level and education itself and the ways and ways and possibilities of opening up actually this area for appointment in as many quality people as possible is what we need to welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126980	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate that has been re-emerged by the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126981	Here, thank you. So, not to repeat, I think that any education, I'm talking here now about this previous condition which is a condition for obtaining certain status or certain, and not scientific characteristics here, is not that this is scientific, but this is really, we're talking about expertise, about pre-conditions, we need to take care of first and foremost of all of the existing staff. We know that the burden and modern life to bring a lot of different changes, in the extreme line of frequent amendments to the Law, require the continued education of ours, above all, judges, but also of all those who work and state lawyers, etc., and of all those advisers who work in the judicial system, so that they can do as best, as efficiently as possible, as best as possible, to resolve the disputes that are ahead of them. In fact, I think that maybe we should look in that financial aspect, there's a certain budget of the Ministry of Justice for education, but I think it's not enough and above all I don't think it's done, that possibility of a system. So, we have to, so we can't leave it to a judge who doesn't have that motivation that we talked about at an earlier point in the agenda, why someone would try harder for the same money, we have to make it possible for them first, and we have to do it one way, and sometimes we have to make them do that education if they can't do the same thing. You have a situation today, it may sound a little absurd, but constitutional law with amendments to the Constitution that have entered the EU. For example, to students who have not graduated from law school, who have passed constitutional law, constitutional law is not recognised, which can be so little doubtful, but how many laws have been amended when someone passed a judicial exam? How many new terminologys are there when we talk about new forms of crime, through electronic communications, networks and everything else, through new ways in financial terms, especially when we talk about commercial law or even criminal law, if we now have the Agrokor case, in which ways all this is happening, we need continuous education to get to the last goal. Here's at the beginning of education, we need to have education during and at the end of the whole time to get that effective judiciary, to get quality, in order for people to have what in all that segment that decides as much a source as possible and the possibility of information and acquisition of knowledge so not only before but for a time, so it's not a finished thing, you got, you got appointed, you became, it's not over, it can't be over. It's not like I gained the status of a regular professor, now I'm calm to death. No, I don't. The work is still being done, and more and more needs to be improved then, so I ask, therefore, we use this opportunity a little bit unrelated to this agenda to stress that this education, to provide financial resources for education and further improvement through various points of action and work is what our judiciary needs to achieve in order to achieve this goal, more effectively the judiciary and, of course, more economically in that case and above all to shorten these long-term, long-term procedures. Here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126982	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126983	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Curaj, I certainly believe that it is necessary to support the adoption of this law, that it is welcome, and among other things, we read quite critical articles in the media related to the work of the judiciary, and among other things, according to some polls, as many as 4/5 of our citizens are considered or declared to have little or no confidence in the Croatian judiciary. Besides, two, three years ago and security intelligence agencies and... The report stated that there is even the possibility that a part of the judges could be a threat to national security, precisely because of all of this, these critical references and allegations, I think it would be good to establish one such academy where just judges could perfect themselves and train and, of course, bring the judiciary to one, how do we say, to a more beautiful level, more acceptable to our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126984	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126985	Thank you, Vice President. Well, yes, dear fellow Striker, I think we can all agree here is just always the main question of how, when and at what speed and how we're going to get to that goal and the goal is always further and further, the goal is always to improve, so it can always be better, we should never be satisfied now we're the one who stops, the one who comes back, only the one who goes forward can achieve and maintain a certain level. Thank God, I think citizens and everyone who looks at us and if they've ever had any problems in court, they know that our level isn't the brightest. There are so many good people, there are so many high-quality judges, there are so many high-quality and state lawyers and deputies that it is safe to listen to them, provide them with both the conditions and the infrastructure so that they can literally work because they can't even turn away from the force of the file, of course and go to the quality and decision-making and improvement that must be continued from the beginning as it is now said in this law, but thus for the entire duration of their term of office or their work. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126986	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126987	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Sea, pardon, Judicial Academy, pardon, Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, first reading, P.Z. No. 558. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposed Law on the Judicial Academy and other all objections and proposals will be adopted to the Proposer to consider them when setting out the text of the Final Proposal of the Law, please vote. I find that a unanimous 103 vote is Z, concluded as proposed by Parliament's working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126988	We move to the following point, which is: - Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and expenditure in 2017 The applicant of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 46. The law on free legal aid was conducted by the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Honorable Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126989	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, you are presented with the report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance in 2017, and in this report here we are telling you everything that happened in 2017, so all those segments important to provide free legal assistance, we also show figures about it. Free legal aid, that's what the institute is called, but it's not really free because it's the legal aid that we, whose realisation we pay out of the state budget for those of our citizens who are weaker actually whose assets in principle don't reach to just ensure you provide legal assistance. This is also what we want to do in a certain way and to give everyone the right to access, in fact, to the judiciary and other state bodies, and this legal aid is defined in two segments as primary aid and secondary aid. These primary legal aids are provided by certain civil society associations which have to meet the conditions to be registered for this and in order to be able to deal with this and secondary legal aid are provided by lawyers and, as short as possible, as regards these primary legal aid provided by the associations, we have here a whole series of forms of legal assistance in fact, such as providing general legal information, legal advice, assembling certain submissions in proceedings before public bodies and in non-judicial proceedings. And as far as secondary legal aid is concerned, it is the one provided by lawyers and lawyers actually represent parties in concrete proceedings before our courts, meaning they also draw up submissions and act and protect the rights and interests of these parties in proceedings before our courts. Here we present very precise and concrete figures, legal aid is approved by our county state offices, so now for each county office we present the numbers as approved in which segment but the total figures are that in the last year there were 21 839 cases, so where legal aid was provided and of that number was provided in 15 451 it primary, therefore slightly less provided in secondary but this secondary legal aid, it is in a certain way more complex and in one case the secondary one took more action or assembly of a submission or representation before a concrete court. As far as the figures are concerned, it's about 3 million kunas at year level, it's kind of like that for several years, and this year we're going to present a report for 2018, and we're actually holding on to about 3 million kuna, most of which is for this secondary, smaller part for primary legal aid. One commission has been established that makes up important stakeholders of the entire system submitted to the ministry by a specific report on the state of the free legal aid system and, following their guidelines, we can then take steps to improve the system. The main report is very detailed by all data and related to literally every county office in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126990	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126991	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Minister Bošnjakovic, we have a potential 125,000 private lawsuits based on a collective court ruling in the Franak case, because 125,000 people have negotiated such loans. Among those 125,000 people must be, and I'm now going to say 20% of the people don't have enough money to start court proceedings. Do you think people who do not have enough money to start a trial in a collective court process where they are found to have certain rights, unequivocally powerful, do you think that such people who do not have enough resources, who do not have enough to live, have the right to secondary assistance to represent themselves in court in order to get 100ths and 100ths, and billions of kunas returned from banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126992	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126993	Free legal aid is an institute that needs to help people who don't have enough resources, and they have objects that are inherently important to them in court. So, it shouldn't be those objects that are some kind of circumstantial litigation that I don't think here that these things that you're talking about are those kinds of things. However, all who meet these property conditions so that they can be covered by free legal aid, the county's competent office will decide as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126994	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126995	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, respected ministers, one question about funding the primary legal aid providers for legal clinics, colleges and associations, we know that every year the ministry is opening tenders around the allocation of funds and that it's doing some number of millions of kunas, but if we look at reports from certain real clinics, individual real colleges, we see that these are small funds, each gets some 60,70,000 kuna maximum, and I think they're doing a good job, and only if we promote it even more, in order to arrange their premises, if they were more accessible to citizens, I think that with a little more substantial and more quality resources, we could make this one a major shift. So does the ministry plan to increase funds that will give clinics and certain associations that provide assistance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126996	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126997	Thank you, we will actually see depending on the needs because here is not the goal of getting any money from clinics or associations, here is the goal of actually providing the legal assistance that citizens need and if the pressure is actually required more to provide and help we will provide more resources. I want to do what I want to do in this mandate, actually to get a little deeper into this surveillance system, I'm very interested in actually the kind of legal assistance, how helpful it really is to people, what forms of legal aid are provided because it is the meaning of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. Not to split the money, so now this one or that one, but it must actually be in some kind of correlation with those needs and of course quality. If there's going to be more demands for this, we're not gonna be able to keep or increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126998	Thank you very much. The committee's rapporteur wants to take the floor, no, I'm opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u126999	I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, ahead of us a report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending in 2017, and here is the Minister himself in introduction, and I think we need to begin and praise this report, especially at the very end of the report, where we see statistics both by county and clinics and by associations that provide free legal assistance to what the money has been spent, how many cases have been processed, how many cases have been passed forward and how many of our citizens have ultimately helped this kind of legal aid. The Institute of Free Legal Assistance itself has been governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance since January 2014, which regulates the purpose of the beneficiary of the type of legal aid, only the financing of the same and the supervision of law enforcement. We also know that the purpose of free legal assistance is to achieve equality not only before the law, but rather to achieve equality in front of all public institutions, especially before the judiciary of our citizens, especially those categories of the most needed groups of citizens according to their sociological and economic criteria. As far as the legal aid system law itself is concerned, it contributes to a definitely more effective legal protection, especially as I mention it and the most needed groups of citizens. As regards the involvement of civil society associations, legal clinics, public administration bodies in the free legal assistance system itself, we have provided just free legal assistance to make it more accessible to a larger number of citizens. We know that all offices of the state administrations of all counties, 20 of them and the City of Zagreb, provide free legal assistance plus certain civil society associations plus the Faculty of Law Osijek, Split, Zagreb and Rijeka. They provide, of course, the primary legal aid, as regards secondary legal aid itself, are more relevant to the achievement of legal protection in civil and administrative court proceedings and only the release from the cost of judicial proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees to as large a part of the costs and departs. As regards primary and secondary legal assistance, as the minister has also pointed out to us, concerns both general information and legal advice, putting together submissions to represent citizens before public-law authorities, while in secondary legal aid, this is more representation in the proceedings itself, legal assistance in the peaceful settlement of disputes, the release of the costs of judicial proceedings or the release of the costs of court fees. As far as the law requires authorised providers of free legal aid, these are lawyers, associations, high schools operating through legal clinics and public administration offices, meaning in our county and in the city of Zagreb. As far as authorized associations and higher schools provide primary legal assistance, they operate through legal clinics. Normally, these legal clinics are also regulated by law, here in the report we see and how they are funded and operated at the law schools of our universities in the Republic of Croatia which does not normally affect the autonomy of universities but also the ability to finance in other ways the legal clinic itself because we know that the operation of legal clinics not only helps our citizens but also helps professors and students through mentorship and through practice at universities to acquire certain knowledge and skills that will afterwards help them in further their not only education but also in legal affairs that they do after their colleges. As regards the monitoring of the system that we have seen in this report, the Ministry has established only a monitoring commission and has an advisory role in the bodies of the Ministry of Justice. As regards 2017, the primary legal aid was granted in almost 22,000 cases, of which the authorised associations provided primary legal assistance in 15 451 cases, legal clinics in 2559 cases and public administration offices in 3829 cases. Here we have different forms of primary legal aid itself and from cases to cases where segments were provided, meaning from legal advice which in most cases meant over 10 000, general legal information over 7800 cases and in smaller forms, that is to draw up the very submissions of 2586 cases that were used tomorrow to go before certain public-law bodies, the European Court of Human Rights and other institutions. As for the period... of 31 December 2017, a total of 8186 requests for secondary legal aid were submitted, of which the most requested 5255 were rejected only 835, rejected 191, suspended 328 and forwarded 33. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Taking into account unresolved requests for secondary legal aid during this reporting period, 12 860 of which half of the over 6500 were granted in the process. As for the classification itself again, i.e. in which legal aid was spent, i.e. For what was ultimately used, this is related to family relations procedures, so almost 2,000 cases were related to family relations, 402 cases were related to the exercise of certain real rights while legal aid for a total of 376 cases was granted in executive procedures and insurance procedures. As far as secondary legal aid is concerned, where the most costs and the most of these expenditures we see in the report are going to be released from payment of court fees, that is almost 5,000 cases, representation in court proceedings 3300 and in the light of the costs of court proceedings, it means about 2362. It is interesting because free legal aid does not apply only and users should not only be citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we know that time and migration are and that Europe is struggling with and the migrant crisis so that this statistics is as interesting as the provider is, i.e. How many users of secondary legal aid were linked to citizenship itself, so in most cases almost 6500 were Croatian citizens, of which there were only 6 citizens of BiH, 3 Serbia, 3 Russia, 3 Kosovo and 63 cases where citizenship was unknown. As for the funds themselves in this report, which are well explained statistically by the tables, we see by all the county, by all associations, by all clinics how much was spent, the planned funds for 2017 were 2 million and 655 000 kuna, which later passed the figure of 3 million kuna in certain additions to the ministry itself. The primary legal aid went to 35%, the secondary legal aid amounting to 64%. The Ministry of Justice is what I mentioned in the introduction to the reply of the minister, calling for a competition every year for associations and universities, i.e. colleges on funding to provide legal assistance, means law schools through their legal clinics where some million kunas are spent and where I think there is definitely room and to increase resources because legal clinics in today's work when we see how many cases they process and how much they can work on promoting activities where they can and appeal to citizens so that they can use this kind of free legal aid. I think that with significantly little more resources, we'd get much better results. As far as the fees for providing secondary legal assistance to lawyers are concerned, but regarding the experts, interpreters, we have in the very statistics how much was spent, that's some nearly 2 million kunas related to the provision of secondary legal aid. Normally, all in all, once again commending the Ministry for this report, which is very detailed, shows us again and again by all segments and by all counties, territorially, by all clinics, by all associations, how many cases have been processed, by all indicators, by the Ministry through my commission, I believe that monitoring their work, is not a great means spent on this so that, with a little increase in the budget of the Ministry regarding free legal aid and good and quality distribution of the same, we can hardly involve much more of our fellow citizens in the free legal assistance system as we know it is necessary today. And we know how much the costs and courts are particularly normal lawyers, experts and all other parties are in the process so that it is highly desirable that we involve our fellow citizens to use the services of free legal aid if they are not able to afford the same but let's take the second segment, which is educational, through legal clinics, this can certainly be a quality practice for future lawyers because we know that students of senior years of law school can be involved in the work of legal clinics but with these means which are 50, 60 or 70 thousand kuna per legal clinic, and with the lack of space of certain colleges I think that a small number of students and professors today are involved in the free provision of legal assistance. So with a little better organization and a little more resources, I think we could get even better results. But here's another commendation on this report and the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127000	Thank you very much. Before we continue a notice related to the agenda. So this is how point 1 is scheduled tomorrow, and this is the proposal for a Council and the President of the National Minorities, we will not discuss it tomorrow because it has not been discussed by the home body. Also, point 6 for tomorrow, which was scheduled for the bill on the protection of debtors and the Proposer Live Wall requested that the debate be postponed because they cannot attend the session, and then we will discuss that 1st point of Friday instead of Friday, the Final Proposal for the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, and on Friday we would discuss another point, which is the report on the work of penitentiary and prisons. So here we have changed a little by getting circumstances on the agenda so that we all know in advance. One part of us is here and the other part will probably pass on. That's it. And now we'll continue with the clubs. So, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, a respected representative, Goran Aleksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127001	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Bošnjaković with a colleague, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia if you are now monitoring this exhibition. We're talking about free legal aid for a report that's ahead of us, and I'd like to talk about something that's not in the report. Some associations are authorised for free legal aid in the primary section. However, there is one association that is not authorized for legal aid but has given an immeasurable legal aid, I would say to tens of thousands of people. It's the Franak Association, and it's not in the report because it's not authorized to provide legal assistance. And what did this Association do? She raised, she did not raise, she raised the Consumer Association, but all the activities were conducted by the Franak Association, so I will speak as if it were the Franak Association, she filed the first and for the time being the only collective lawsuit against 8 banks and the collective lawsuit ended last year with a powerful collective court ruling condemning 8 banks to have negotiated unfairly and therefore a zero contractual provision on the currency clause CHF and a variable interest rate. The collective court ruling refers to 150,000 people, 150,000 of our citizens, citizens and citizens contracted loans with the Swiss franc currency clause. So the Franak Association has launched, led and won a court dispute against 8 banks concerning 150,000 Croatian citizens and citizens, which means 150,000 families and this is extended to 400 to 500 thousand people. The report unfortunately does not have that because the Franak Association is not authorized to provide free legal assistance. In the meantime, what was Franak doing? In the meantime, she advised her members and other people about their rights. I'll tell you what I personally did as an individual. So far, I've answered as an individual, I'm not exaggerating, be careful what I tell you, 20 thousand questions through e-mails, facebooks, messinger phones, consultations, stands, 20,000 citizens may not be 20,000 citizens, because some are repeating themselves, but I've answered 20,000 questions, as an unauthorized advisor. Someone's gonna say... the office didn't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] scribeship, because I'm not paid for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If I were to take money for what I'm telling people, then I'd be a nadir. But since I don't take money, for what I'm saying to people, I'm not like some people have accused me, convicted me, for the last seven years since I've worked for Croatian citizens. The result of all that I'm talking about is in nature. The result in nature so far is over 50 powerful Sudanese verdicts, on which it was paid to all these prosecutors, I don't know how much money I didn't count, but it is certain that some millions of kunas that the banks had to pay to Croatian citizens, who sued them for unfair contractual provisions, some banks did not want to give it voluntarily, so they were completed. And I'm really glad, when the bank is done, I think it's great, in the follow-up to this work, we're still doing what we've been doing so far, we advise citizens, the Franka Association is growing, it's currently got about 31 thousand members, it's growing every day, people need legal help, we're giving them very good legal help, because we know about this case everything, but I repeat, we're not authorized to do this, we don't receive any money except for members who pay one symbolic amount of 30 kn per year, so the association can work. It's some kind of primary aid and it's free legal aid even if it's not registered as free legal aid, but in nature it really is, it's a free legal aid to all people who have negotiated unfair loans. What's next? We are waiting for some new decisions of the Supreme Court and we expect the tsunamis of court proceedings afterwards. However, there is a certain number of people, I believe that 20% of these people who are entitled to a collective court ruling to file a private suit, I believe that there are 20% of the people who simply won't do it because they don't have the money. They often won't even try to set up a job with some lawyer to represent them, say temporarily, without paying, until the trial is over, because they simply, they don't survive, they don't have to live, and then they don't think about going to a lawyer and talking about some court procedure, and a lot of money they can and should get. In total, banks owe more than 10 billion kn to Croatian citizens, based on these unfair interest and unfair currency. And now these 20% of the people, imagine, will be left without, say, 2 billion kn, and 2 billion kn, instead of ending up in the pockets of Croatian citizens, will end up in the pockets of bankers, who de facto robbed them, and with some quality approach, the Republic of Croatia, that problem would not have happened. We still have time, we can still, and I think we need to take some action, in order to have an absolute restitution of all overpaid amounts, which I say has over 10 billion kn. The process is nearing its end, the Supreme Court, should decide at any moment whether the debtors who have converted CHF loans are entitled to compensation, that decision is expected, I expect it every day, because for half a year, on the Supreme Court table, then, we wait for the Supreme Court's decision on bank audits, after that 2 decisions when they are made, we will know everything. We'll know first, if they have debtors, who have converted the right to private lawsuits, and we'll know whether the currency clause is ultimately unfair and that's why it's useless. The audit is ongoing, of course there is still the possibility of a constitutional lawsuit if someone is not satisfied, but if they are found to be guilty and guilty again, I do not believe that the Constitutional Court will change its decision, which it has already made for the benefit of consumers once. So I appeal here to the Ministry of Justice, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to find a way to actually make one complete damage to all damaged consumers. This would not be free legal aid, as provided for by the Law on Free Legal Assistance, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not foreseen as someone who provides free legal aid. But I'm now pulling a parallel with the Franak Association, and even Franak Association is not someone who provides free legal aid, but this free legal aid, the Franak Association gives. We have cases in Austria, where banks were massively applying unfair contractual obligations, in a way that did not reduce the interest rate, although they agreed on a certain parameter, on which they had to reduce the interest rate. And then when that parameter came to zero, when it went down to minus, the banks didn't apply a minus, it was court- established unfairly and therefore the zero and Austrian consumer protection department, what did it do? It prepared a motion of a lawsuit for its citizens and citizens were clicking on a particular link, on that ministry, I don't know, as the Ministry of Austria is called, which is intended to protect consumers, by clicking on that link, the citizens could take over the template, on which they could then sue the bank privately and get their money and according to my information, it's settled in Austria, because when a dishonest trader returns several hundred million euros to the Austrian citizens, and among you there is a consumer who may have raised such credits, I don't know, because people have reported to me that, here, fellow Lenart is one of these, looking at him now, he's also one of those consumers who's got to pay back to the people that they're going to pay back, that money, that they're not going to be able to spend it, because they're going to spend all the money, and they're going to spend it're going to spend it's going to be the money. Imagine that more than 10 billion kunas are found in the system in a way that comes to Croatian citizens and that Croatian citizens, let's say, spend 50% of that money in one year, and that would probably happen. Well, it's not that small, it's not that to throw away. GDP would grow by 5 billion kuna. The budget would grow by a billion kuna, it's not that small. So we should make sure that citizens get that money, that the government of the Republic of Croatia provides free legal assistance. In what way? The simplest way would be if all of this were to be completed to prepare one systematic solution for the compensation of all citizens in such a way that banks had to offer overpaid amounts to citizens on the basis of one account. This calculation should be made on the basis of a methodology established by the legislator, however, a crucial role should be played by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia were to get caught in a round and together try to find a solution to depriving all these Croatian citizens, I think that this solution would be very high-quality, very applicable and no one could bring it down either at the European Court of Human Rights or at the EU court or anywhere else because the EU court has said very simply in some of its judgments, he said: "If the contractual provisions are found to be unfair and harmful, three rules apply. The first rule is that this is the case since the start of the contractual relationship." So, when the contractual provisions have been found to be null and unfair, they are unfair from the moment it was found to be so, from the beginning. The second rule the EU court says must apply is that there is a subjective right to restitution. What does that mean? This means that anyone who is covered by a verdict has the right to be restitution on the grounds that someone unfoundedly charged him. And the third rule that may be most important, which is the rule of retroactiveness, must be returned to everything, there is no statute of limitations. This limitation in our country is somewhat unusually prescribed, so it would be obsolete, however, the EU court says, anything obtained on the basis of unfair and therefore harmless contractual provisions must be returned. If those three rules apply, there will be no problem. And those three rules have already been established in some way by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in March last year made one decision that the collective lawsuit would end the limitation of claims. What does that mean? 2012 In April when a collective lawsuit was filed in the Franak case, the limitation of all claims from private court proceedings that will eventually take place in the future was suspended. And the statute of limitations began again for every private court trial on the day of the power of judgment. For overpaid interest on 7 banks that have already been convicted in 2014. It is only 14th, and I would say even now, on 14 June 2019. In contrast to the course, this statute of limitations begins to run only in 2023, and for the Sberbank and for the interest of the statutes, it is not until June 2023. So we don't have a lot of time for this part of overpaid interest because old age comes on June 14, 2019. For this reason, I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider what I said, I am ready to cooperate and resolve this problem and to damage 150,000 Croatian citizens damaged by the unfair behaviour of Croatian banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127002	Thank you, too. Now, in front of the club of GLASs and HSU representatives, Mrs. Glass will speak. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127003	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, so this is the report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance in 2017. There are two, two interactions or two forms of free legal aid, primary and secondary. Since the very beginning of the introduction of this institute into the Republic of Croatia, which was of course related to our accession and institutional equipment for EU accession, we have problems with this institute. The institute is too complicated, it has too little money, and it has often been said that you need free legal aid to even figure out how to get to the point where you can get free legal aid. And it seems from this report that the situation has not changed in this respect and it would really be good to change. I'm going to say in the introduction that all the criticisms that I'm going to make here are the differences between primary and secondary, should be looked at among other things and in the context that it's all about a million kuna. So, about one negligible small sum for that kind of help, then, that institute would have some real meaning at all. Primary legal assistance is provided by various NGOs, associations, clinics of law schools, therefore, by some charities, voluntary organisations and associations, which, according to some criteria, apply for funding from the state, therefore, from the state budget and which are then chosen by some criteria to be able and authorised to provide such primary legal assistance. In 2017, the application for this type of aid, and this is about information, advice, submissions, public legal bodies and submissions to international organisations as well as to the European Court of Justice. Those demands were 21839. Unlike the primary legal aid, secondary legal aid is provided by lawyers and is cornered. concerns the interaction of parties with the court in different forms and variants, also of course includes information and advice and submissions, but submissions refer to courts, and then court representation and judicial proceedings. These requirements for secondary legal aid were therefore new in 2017 to 8186. However, in 2017 a number of requests for secondary legal aid which were not resolved in 2016 were also transferred so that the total number of requests processed in 2017 were not only these 8168 but were transferred from 2016 to 12860. Now, out of those 12860 as many were on the agenda, for 2017 it was accepted from what was resolved, 49% was accepted and 51% was rejected or otherwise removed to say in this procedure free of charge of secondary legal assistance. I think that this information, it's a lot more worrying than it seems at first sight, so we should analyse the demands that have been rejected in this category of secondary legal aid, because this is de facto about the court business. It's not just about information or general advice, it's about what people need to pay for, or can't pay for it. And that's why I think that this number requires an analysis, not cases that have been accepted, but cases that have been rejected, we don't have that here, we have an analysis of the cases that have been accepted, which are largely related to, let's say, the compensation of the court costs, although of course there are a lot of cases where n and it didn't happen. When you look at NGOs, and they register a lot, and only some get funding from the state budget, which have qualified to provide primary free legal assistance, so those help at the beginning and what I have stated that such associations and legal clicks can work. There is a huge inequality, among the funds I reiterate all the funds are very small, but between the funds and the number of cases that each institution has dealt with or dealt with in that 2017, I will only list some examples of comparisons to do so. For example, the Peace Centre, legal advice and psychosocial assistance in Vukovar, received 74 thousand 790 kn and had 184 cases. A civil rights project from Sisak won 71,000 kn, and it had 6,000 844 cases. So, more or less the same money, even these got a little more money with 184 cases, and those in Sisak with 6844 cases, they got the same amount of money or civil society associations and the quality of life Srma from Sinj got 74 thousand 150 kn and had 132 cases. The Croatian legal centre from Zagreb, received 68 thousand 945 kn and had 1164 cases. So 132 versus 1164, those with 1164 got less money. And then we have University of Osijek, Split and Zagreb, legal clinics University of Osijek 57 thousand 376 kuna, 98 cases, University of Split 61 thousand 350 kuna 518 cases, University of Zagreb 73 thousand 400 kuna, 1943 cases. There may be some explanation for this, but obviously not evenness in the amount of money that some institutions have received and the number of cases they've dealt with is white and actually punches into the eyes and would require a certain explanation of what the criteria are, in which way, why, how, what is this about. Also, if you look again at these million kunas, which is far too small, the primary legal aid cases have about twice as much as the secondary ones. On the other hand, secondary legal aid is financed with approximately double the amount of primary legal aid. This is obvious because cases involving lawyers and somewhat different situations are involved, but it should obviously work on this subject, motivated and animated lawyers, and also young and old to involve part of their practice in providing free legal assistance in countries where it has been offended and there has been a long number of years, it is in fact a way that this legal assistance is effectively ensured that, by practicing its practice, lawyers are stimulating that a part of their practice is devoted to this particular type of case and that it is recognised and honored in some ways if not in money then in some other forms of recognition that contributes to the reputation of lawyer practice. All together, of course, it's a miserable amount, so when you look at it that millions of kunas are used for all of it, that these organizations that deal with it get 70 or 40 thousand kuna, of course, they can't know what to do and they can't achieve some effects. So with this institution as I said at the outset, we're actually having a problem and we're going to have to figure out what to say, or what to do with the overcomplicated procedures, and we're way too little money, we're de facto, practically killing the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. And that's why I think it might be worth having that debate open again, whether we want it or not. If we don't want that institute, let's say we don't, we won't, the ministry won't bother everyone else with it, if we want to, and we'll find other forms of it, not as good and quality as it could be supported by the state, but it will. However, my opinion that we need this institute, that it is a very important institute and that it should therefore once again open this topic to see adequate funding that will not be at the level of senselessness and on the other hand a simpler, easier procedure, the approximation of this institute to people who really need it, who are often both traffic and educationally, not to say financially distant from access to this institute and really need help, often old people. So if we want this institute I think we should also make this report a good point of de facto, I would say honestly and faithfully show that we should once again open this topic to see how really Croatia can organise the free legal aid that it is and which works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127004	Thank you. It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Stjepan Curaj. He's gone. He's losing his right. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Mrs Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127005	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker. We will talk today about free legal aid, i.e. the 2017 Report on the use of free legal aid. What is certainly good to stress is that MOST of Independent Lists advocates the Institute of Free Legal Assistance because it is necessary for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have the right to legal assistance, i.e. to be available to them, access to judicial authorities if they are in certain situations, they certainly do not, and this is exactly what this institute should provide them with. The right to primary legal aid was used by over 21,000 people while the right to that secondary legal aid was used by more than 8,000 citizens. It is a worrying fact that 10% of those citizens who have filed the application have been rejected. I would like to say some things here that I have met on the ground, that is, in conversation with citizens and with free legal aid providers. A few days ago, a 2019 tender for free primary legal aid was launched, which I believe is not enough funds at this time, when we have a report by the attorney general that an increasing number of Croatian citizens are at risk of poverty. If it is at risk of poverty, it will certainly result in the fact that it will not be able to access it, therefore, to protect its rights. The big problem is actually the process of submitting and approving a solution to the right to free legal aid. The parties are often rejected on the grounds that the subject of which they have applied for does not constitute an existential question or that they are now not in any such life circumstances requiring the approval of free legal assistance. Namely, it is applied closely by the Member State itself. Versus 13th century 2nd. f. The law on free legal aid which prescribes that free legal aid is provided exceptionally in other administrative and civil court proceedings, and then, in fact, on this right to legal aid, the provider decides by discretionary assessment, with the fulfilment of certain conditions. It is necessary to call a tender in due time for the Associations and other legal aid providers to be financed, or to be able to provide funds for their uninterrupted activities. If we want the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, then we need to be effective in this and we need to provide adequate resources. I have to notice for 2018. according to a certain free legal aid provider, it was estimated from 45,000.00 kn to 95,000.00 kn, now this amount has been reduced. How we will strengthen this or perhaps is not the goal of strengthening or strengthening these institutions that provide free legal assistance, when we see projects that are approved between 45 and 85.00 kn. So here she would appeal to the fact that one of the salaries of a highly educated person who graduated from law school, for example, is not going to work for a minimumer, I don't think it should be expected, this message is being sent here to make people work, so, for enthusiasm. So we actually have a fact here whether that's enough, so for one project 45 to 85,000.00 kn, to finance, so all those costs of cold drive, so the costs of directing, the costs of renting, office material, fees for the parties. Also, 2018. We had a case that although the contest was concluded in February 2018, it was only before the end of the year if I am not mistaken, in October 2018. This has created a lot of difficulties in the functioning of the provider of free legal aid, and I must also note that it is not equally distributed or insufficient to plan a small alocation financial one, this year, so a small amount of funding was planned in relation to the primary legal aid, all of which, according to this report, was spent a million and 50,000,00 kn, and for secondary legal aid almost 2 million kuna. So there's one disproportionate, I'm not saying that here is more, here is less, but I think that both institutes, if we want that Institute of Free Legal Assistance, we should actually go into one segment and in another segment, increase that amount. I also think that it should consider decentralisation of free legal aid itself, meaning that it is seen which units of local self-government in a given area, meaning enough capacity, could mean, alone, and that we are not dependent on the Central Competition of the Ministry of Justice, that the Ministry of Justice is taking care of it, means that we bring it down to one decentralised level. The ministry can certainly predict the amount, but in fact, if there are certain needs, to actually cultivate, to strengthen the right of Croatian citizens to have access to judicial authorities because they, therefore, should each citizen of the Republic of Croatia have the right to come, to actually be represented before judicial authorities and not to be deprived of it because of his material situation. So, at this point, it takes a million-dollar increase and a half kuna not enough, as announced in this competition for 2019. It is also not enough for projects to be from 45,000.00 kn to 85,000.00 kn given the number of legal advices provided. We know that one average salary of a highly educated person is about 85,000.00 kn, and in the report we see that the Associations are also getting from, meaning, 45,000.00 kn, which is simply not enough funding. Following the same, I believe that there is a need for the amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and I expect in this step a reaction from the Ministry and accession to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127006	Thank you, too. We are now moving on to individual debates, the first is Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127007	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Ministers Bošnjaković, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the opening part, I was talking about some things, and now I would like to detail what it would be good to do for 125,000 people to get more than 10 billion kuna from the Croatian banks that robbed them. They were robbed under the blessing of the CNB, by the inaction of the institutions, if the citizens hadn't joined themselves, that would have remained so. Fortunately for us, the citizens joined together and the court procedure gave them the right to be right. However, in order to exercise their right, they must again go to court in private. Secondary legal aid is very possible in this case. It is private court proceedings in which victory is guaranteed because, according to the Law on Criminal Procedure and under the Consumer Protection Act, collective judgment is binding on all courts and on the basis of collective judgment, everyone has the right to private compensation for damages. We already have over 50 fines for interest only, for overpaid interest, and only following, follow private lawsuit processes related to overpaid interest and exchange rates. I said already after the Supreme Court has finally established and definitely whether we are 100% right will then be fully open throughout the door to get that complete money in private court processes, however, in order to get that money must be sued by Croatian banks. There are a large number of people, said only about 20%, and that's maybe 25,000 people who just don't have the money and who need help getting their money. I even see here now that there may be some EU cooperation in this, even some Euro projects are possible in all this because the EU has shown that consumer protection is one of its priorities. If we ask for some money from the Euro Funds precisely for this situation, if we prove it and it is not difficult to prove that the banks have indeed taken Croatian citizens, it is evidence of a collective judicial verdict, if it is asked in a quality way I think that the EU from its funds can certainly and would gladly spend money on such things, and especially if we know that this money is eventually returned. Because it is spent only during court proceedings, lawyers cost something, but at the end of the court proceedings all these costs are borne by the guilty banks. Therefore, there is almost no risk, since there is no risk I think that the Republic of Croatia should make every effort to pay people back their money, make their GDP rich, eventually the Government of the Republic of Croatia would make such a move and as it grows in the eyes of Croatian citizens, it is certain. You have an open door, here, it's just up to you to use that open door and help Croatian citizens get their money. Look at the experiences of other countries, we are not the only country that has had such problems, but I mentioned to Austria which returned interest to people, Hungary has returned the interest paid by law to people, let's remember Hungary has passed 3 laws, the first law returned the money to people on the grounds that the banks agreed one course for giving credit, and the second course of CHF to collect an annuities and the first law that the Hungarians had brought to people in 2014 was returned to that difference of course between a shopping and a sales course because such a way of bargaining was not allowed and the EU court had long established that this was not allowed. The other law returned the overpaid interest to the people because there was the same problem as with us, the banks agreed on an interest rate that was changed by the bank's decision. I'll repeat what I've said before, the bank's decision is like to you to arrange a legal deal with someone that has a certain price and that price is, for example. 100,000 kunas and you tell a man you will pay me that 100,000 kuna in 10 wars per 10,000 kuna but I have the right to change every war 10,000 kuna as I like, there are no criteria, simply I will change it because I no longer fit 10,000 kuna but I need 12, 13, 15 as much as you sign to agree to it, however under the Law on Mandatory Relations, such a contractual provision is indeterminate even if it is not a matter of consumer protection, it is indeterminate for legal persons, and therefore legal persons who have negotiated such contractual provisions also have the right to restitution and therefore it is a clean situation. That's how banks worked in Hungary, so did banks in Hungary, in the Republic of Hungary, in BiH, in Serbia, in Montenegro, so the banks did not act as regards interest rates west of the Republic of Croatia. Even the Republic of Slovenia that was with us in the common state did not allow banks to apply such interest rates in their loans. Fortunately, however, there are laws, there are courts, there is a really good case law in the Republic of Croatia, and such a practice of banks has been found unfair and thus nothing. So to return to the Hungarians and to them was the same thing, and then by law they ordered the banks to return the full amount of overpaid interest to the debtors. And by the third law we know they made a conversion of CHF into forints, but that law is not so interesting to me because he did not take the initial course but went to some course that was current in 2014 so there was no restitution so the Hungarians still have the right to seek overpaid courses. So they, like us, have the right to ask for overpaid courses, but not only because they need to get restitution but also have the right to cut majors. So, they had a situation that didn't change CHF to forint at the initial course. And what happened, the banks were not satisfied with these laws, so banks sued Hungary's OTP bank specifically to the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights, after the Council, also found that banks were wrong, but that the Republic of Hungary was right to restitution by legal coercion. So, it can be done whenever it wants, it can be done when there are legal grounds, it can be done when there is a judicial verdict, the Hungarians didn't even have such a huge thing as we do, which is a collective judgment, so 8 banks are known precisely between 10 September 2003 and 31 December 2008 and they negotiated unfair provisions on a variable interest rate that is changed by the decision of the bank. Even the verdict also states that this part of the verdict that speaks of an unfair interest rate does not apply only to CHF's currency. But it concerns all currencies, because the fact is that banks agreed on an unfair interest rate for both kuna and euro loans and CHF loans until the end of January 10, 2013, they had to negotiate it in the manner prescribed by the Consumer Credit Act, and until then the rules were silly, because it did not say exactly how they had to negotiate it, but it only said that the contractual provision had to be determined and the banks instead of contracting a specific contractual provision, they were foolish, so they agreed a contractual provision which was not binding. And what did we have from the Croatian National Bank? We had the fact that, until these amendments were made and the addition of the Consumer Credit Act, the CNB kept a notice on its website that such an administrative decision was a normal and acceptable banking business. I would end my presentation, suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia find a way, to help poor people, first of all, so that on the basis of a collective court ruling, they can get a free way of returning their money, but in a global way it could be legally resolved for all people, that there is no need to go to court at all, one system-based solution can be made, after the Supreme Court decides whether we have the right to convert to compensation, after deciding on bank audits, one such legal solution is possible, very simply to calculate the amounts paid, so I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127008	Thank you, too. You have one replica, he asked for a replica, Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127009	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Alexic, in your presentation, you mentioned the statistics of Franak, how many people helped and I believe that you have a lot of lawyers in your ranks, and that you did not engage in idolatry, but that you specifically helped people, but I wonder, have you ever applied to get into the system of these associations that provide free legal assistance, if you did not, why didn't you, or if you did, why were rejected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127010	The answer to the line, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127011	I thank you for asking Mr. Bačić, you see, we didn't run, here, I have to say right away, we were just busy working, we were busy working, and we just didn't run, we didn't follow the rules that make it possible and things like that, and we didn't run. We don't have enough logistics to do this, but we have a lot of logistics to help Croatian citizens. Of course, we have both lawyers and economists and lawyers working with us, so you can't see it, but unfortunately, we haven't done it yet, but that doesn't mean we won't do it. Well, here's the debate, maybe the situation, which has enlightened me a little bit, as far as it's concerned, so I'm going to give them the chance to do it anyway, so we'll see, but that's the future, we should have done it sooner, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127012	Okay. Let's move on. Now he will speak, Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127013	Thank you again, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with an associate, greetings once again. I will take advantage of the opportunity in this individual debate, to read you a report from the Faculty of Law in Split for 2018, because I think when we discuss this report, we know how many legal clinics and associations, which deal with problems, and provide concretely primary legal assistance, we know how many cases they process, and we still need to give them some space and listen to all their proposals, so I will also take this opportunity to do so. Namely, the legal clinic of the Faculty of Law in Split, since 2014, has been the establishment of the legal clinic itself since 2009. .g had a total of 670 users of free legal aid. Over the past year, 103 users of free legal aid, who have raised over 150 legal questions. Legal clinic of the Faculty of Law in Split is financed exclusively by the funds awarded by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of tenders for financing, projects of the association authorised to provide primary legal assistance and legal clinics on the basis of the aforementioned competition for 2018, the amount of funding of €68.000 616 has been granted. This year's reduction in the amount of funds granted has significantly affected the printing of promotional materials that have proved to be the most effective way of promoting us in the present bang. Especially referring to elderly people, who are not used in modern technology. Legal clinic of the Faculty of Law in Split, performs external duty in Zadar, which is a lot of efficiency, because the parties because of the distance, are embarrassed to reach Split. In a desire for even better legal assistance, we came up with the idea of establishing external duty in Makarska for exactly the same reasons. However, because of the reduction in the amount of funds, this objective is difficult to achieve. We stressed that the next step in the development of the legal clinic is to find and equip space outside of the Faculty of Law building, and we expect help from the University of Split, the city of Split and also the Ministry of Justice. Because of the lack of spatial capacity of the Faculty of Law, the clinic operates in a cabinet that shares with the Undergraduate Studies Secretariat. This is very unfortunate, because it has a minimum of 4 or 5 per group to the legal aid providers themselves, and when we add the presence of a mentor or administrator, there is hardly any place for the parties. We believe that by doing so, we would dare say unprofessionally about receiving a party, because it does not leave a dose of seriousness and relaxation that should be felt. In addition, experience so far has shown that users are reluctant to come to the university building, because they can be seen by a large number of students, which makes them uncomfortable, because they want to protect their privacy. After all, the reduction of resources for work has been made impossible for clinic students to connect and expand their knowledge and experience with other legal clinics. During the provision of free legal assistance, we find certain difficulties that arise due to the poor information of citizens in the system of free legal assistance, and we rarely expect citizens to expect us to make a concerted submission on their behalf and representation, and then refer them to the offices of the state administration. To try to exercise their rights to secondary, legal aid. But rarely do users get surprised and be... When they realize that free legal aid is provided by law school students and not by professors, for example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The users of free legal aid most often come to seek legal advice from the civil, land-based library law, inheritance law, contract law, labour and administrative. Once both legal advice and general legal information have been presented to users, the legal clinic shall cease to monitor the users of free legal assistance in the course of further action, as the general legal information of the legal counsel has ceased. The legal clinic cannot impose on users how it works, the legal clinic provides users with one, two or more ways of solving their legal problem, possibly being able to point out in the most appropriate way but is in the user's own way to do so. Therefore, the legal clinic has no record of how users acted after handing over legal advice or certain general legal information, although sometimes the parties themselves come to the premises of the legal clinic to thank the advice once more because they managed to solve their specific legal problem with their help. In fact, in the replica itself and in the presentation, I have mentioned it on several occasions, and I am pleased that the minister said in his presentation that the system is being monitored at this time and that the system should be closely monitored in particular by the number of cases solved, i.e. by the number of resolved providers and the provision of free legal assistance. Because we can see here and how the debate took place in the Croatian Parliament that we will see best how much money we give to a particular association, to a particular legal clinic in a particular competition, so we should not all have the same criteria, normally in different counties and in different universities we have different cases of free legal aid. But we can definitely conclude that if we want to improve this system that is good for now, we need to increase resources, so the ministry has to find more resources in its budget to provide legal clinics that, in some ways, the ones left to collect in their ranks as many students and professors as possible, because it will get closer and through its promotional activities will explain to citizens who do not have all the information and perhaps do not know that this type of legal aid can be obtained free of charge and can be used today and we know how much legal advice and how much legal assistance our citizens know at the end of the day. Here is specifically in the case of a legal clinic in Split, the minister has testified and knows where the law school is and knows how small and scarce it is so I believe that even with more space that I think the ministry and the university itself have and which mine can provide to the legal clinic itself can achieve much, much better results than these 100 legal advices in a year. And to point out once again, by working at the legal clinic and professors, and especially students for many years have gained a very important student and legal practice that they need not only to finish college because at the age of 5 you have to have a certain number of hours of student practice but it helps them to further improve in their work, not only but also to direct themselves but also to make better lawyers who will later and as lawyers become involved in the system and primary but also secondary legal assistance. I must point out that a legal clinic has been established in the Faculty of Law since 2009. Adrian Bilic, she's being led by Professor Billic. Ratko Brnabić and Prof. Hrvoje Kacher and a lot of students who are involved here, so here we are viewing only the website and their website I think is available to everyone so we should thank them this way for our volunteering and free work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127014	You, too. The first line was sought by Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127015	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow you have spoken here about the legal clinic in Split, I, of course, welcome this work of theirs, of course it should be much more means to work. And in order to be more efficient and faster, of course, that I think that the Law School's legal clinic in Osijek may also have one outpost in Slavonski Brod, where here we can provide such legal assistance because we are aware that the purpose of legal assistance is to ensure that everyone before the law usually uses it socially or economically more vulnerable citizens to provide them with here legal assistance. So one of the proposals would be to the Faculty of Law in Osijek to open an outpost in Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127016	Answer, here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127017	Thank you for this comment. This is exactly what we see in the report by the very legal clinic in Split, which has already expanded to Zadar and Makarska, so there should be direction of other of our university cities, especially those with legal universities and legal clinics. Normally, there is no law school in Slavonski Brod, so it is also impossible to establish a legal clinic in this way, but we do know that many students from Slavonski Brod are also studying in Osijek, and I think that, in particular, students of senior years would be willing to return to the premises and certain small funds would be willing to volunteer and provide services for free legal assistance to their citizens at Slavonski Brod level, so that we definitely need to encourage this here and encourage the minister to monitor this work as much as possible and with this supervision to provide as much resources to those who provide the most adequate and maximum service of free legal assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127018	Thank you. Now the replica will be given by Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127019	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Bačić, I don't know what is the benefit of free legal assistance in a society like ours where the judiciary is the way it is, where the children of the powerful people caught with a bunch of drugs are not processed, where a man who grows a plant to help and thus reduces the costs of the health system gets 2 years in prison, in a system in which he is convicted, to fool a small dog Medo, and those who have kidnapped the Croatian people, embezzled big money, took, sold out their property, and to that end they won't be punished or the trials against them run for 10, 15 years, and 20 years. Why such help when a small man unfortunately gets convicted, and large fish continue to fly and swim.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127020	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127021	Thank you, Vice President, I think, although not the subject of this report may not be the subject of some of the things you've presented agree on, is this a problem that we don't have in some specific cases settled court practice, is this a problem that a lot of our lawyers are calling out for what's in Angolan, which is the introduction and precedent where certain court practice, certain court decisions would be the same, but we can't at the expense of that and at the expense of some inequality and problems that the judiciary has today, and we have to admit that there is also a problem with certain judges and certain cases, but we can't now criticise free legal aid. It's easy for me and you to come to the advice of a certain lawyer there are plenty of lawyers and former judges around us, but imagine a person who lives a little, perhaps, in a more remote part of your county, that he has come to some advice on a crucial issue that is to him and how important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127022	Thank you very much, Mr. Striker will now have the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127023	Thank you, Vice President, so you dedicated most of your discussion to the legal clinic from Split, their work and, of course, the need for additional resources and space. Of course, I, too, from your words that you have said, must agree and praise their work, our citizens often need, besides advice, to help them in writing complaints, complaints, and so on, but I also think that it will be the most helpful if we can speed up the procedures so that their dispute will not be resolved for years. And as for the legal clinic in Split, I think it can serve as a good material, a base, to start in other counties with a similar practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127024	Replication response, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127025	Thank you, Vice President, I thank my colleague Strick for the question and for his comment, it is definitely our obligation, in particular, and the Ministry of Justice that this system of free legal aid was the primary one and was the secondary one to include as many actors as possible. Normally it is easier in larger systems where there are universities, where there is a law school to organize and associations, but also organize legal clinics. The problem is in the smaller environments where you come from, which may not even have a university, which doesn't have a clinic, but therefore we have to work on including as many lawyers and other lawyers as possible, to see the purpose and volunteering and help their citizens and to join the system of free legal assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127026	The last line is Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, so you mentioned this legal clinic by colleague Bacic, and I think it's a good example, you mentioned various branches of rights that she covers. Now, usually in the focus of the public, in focus, and also lawyers at law school and lawyers are litigation proceedings and criminal proceedings, and that usually breaks the spear, but one branch of law that I think is quite neglected is administrative law. You know that most of the legal acts that are passed are actually administrative acts and that this is something that our citizens meet every day,.../incomprehensible/... there are also important because it regulates relations between individuals and the state and then it is a matter of fundamental rights etc. Now, since I think it's one branch of law that's not sufficiently studied at law schools, not enough literature, and it's not enough for both lawyers and lawyers who are qualified to do so, except for those who may be working in state bodies, so here I think and I hope that through this legal clinic and knowledge in that area, that branch of the right will be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127028	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127029	Thank you, Vice President, here's fellow Falcon, thank you very much for asking, I definitely agree with you because if we look at most of the procedures and most of the cases that certain legal clinics or service providers of free legal aid resolve it is related to administrative law. Because it is simple to settle certain disputes or certain issues that our citizens have towards public authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and we know how much administrative law and complexity, how few lawyers are actually specifically concerned, only with that. So we definitely need to encourage the departments of administrative rights at our law schools and colleagues to deal with it, I mean, specifically, only students will hardly cover those areas, there are both mentors and professors and lawyers, especially those older, more experienced to engage and give a few of their volunteer hours and to teach others to help as many of our citizens as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127030	Thank you, too. With us are students and students of Linigre or private high school with the right of the public from Zagreb, we welcome them with applause, thank you for being with us. It's not thunderous because there aren't many of us, but still, they all clapped. [[Applause.]] We now have the final word, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGE will speak Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127031	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia I will summarise what I hope to have elaborated well enough so far. I'm talking about the future, and I want one, one significant step that we haven't made in the future, to really help people who in large numbers have the right to compensation and they don't have the money to come to that damage. In June 2018, therefore, a final ruling in the case of Franak, on the basis of that judgment, 125,000 people were granted the right to receive compensation from private court proceedings, and the compensation consists of that anyone who has contracted a CHF credit has the right to receive overpayment of interest, therefore, the difference between the interest that should have been charged under the initial payment plan and interest which is actually charged in the larger amount. The difference has the right to obtain any damaged debtor and, to any difference, still has the right to gain and tighten interest because the bank is an unfair participant in legal work. Second, you have the right to get a complete difference of course. It is recognised, therefore, that only the initial payment plan and that in kuna, and what is paid at an increased rate, is not worth it. The difference between what was increased and what was at the beginning belongs to each individual debtor and each one still goes to a tight interest. It's huge money, it's a total of over 10 billion kuna, and these poor, I believe, there are, I'll say very poor because people don't have money for court proceedings, there's probably about 2 billion kuna that should be returned to them. The Republic of Croatia can certainly make it possible through its Offices, the County Offices to provide free legal assistance, and I believe that it is possible to report through the EU, certain funds, finance and all that is important in this and most importantly that this money is safe, it is money that cannot be lost, it is money that will be temporarily paid for the court procedure, for lawyers, for fees, for this, for that, for the skills, but all that money ultimately pays the banks, that money is money that cannot fail. On the one hand, all the money invested will be returned to the state, and on the other hand the citizens will receive compensation and the third as a result of the increased GDP, I have already said that because if over 10 billion kunas are poured into the pockets of Croatian citizens, surely 5 billion kunas will end up in GDP spending. So it's a wine situation where the only loser is the one who needs to be a loser, and that's the bank thief. The banks in this situation are thieves, classic thieves who should not have done business like they did, and therefore the Republic of Croatia has a duty to resolve it in the best possible way for everyone. There is also the simplest way, which is to resolve this systematically by law, for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a methodology on the basis of which banks should calculate the amounts paid and offer the damaged debtors of the settlement. It is the simplest way, it is possible, it is not prohibited, the EU court has said its own, I said, on the basis of unfair contractual provisions when they are established, each individual debtor has the right to obtain a full restitution. This was established by the EU court. On the other hand, the European Court of Human Rights has found that if the State intervenes in unfair contractual provisions, it has the right to do so, it is an example of Hungary. At this point, there is an arbitration against the Republic of Croatia, but I believe that arbitration will fall. I therefore appeal to both Minister Bošnjakovic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to help Croatian citizens who are damaged to get their money and will certainly raise the rating of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who at this time is not exactly God-knowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127032	Thank you very much. Mr. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will now have the final word on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127033	Mr. Vice-President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, first of all, I would like to thank everyone who took part in this debate and I listened very carefully to Mr. Alexic who actually performed on behalf of the club and finally and as an individual, and I have to say about your debate, she was more focused on specific subjects than on the Institute of Free Legal Assistance itself, she actually touched him more indirectly. As for this, you said yourself, there are certain decisions of the courts, certain cases are still in front of our courts, and therefore I can't actually go into the debate so that whatever happens and what happens, we'll see what decisions will be. As far as the Institute of Free Legal Assistance is concerned, it is very important in our system and as far as it is concerned, I understand from this whole debate that little money is available here, about 3 million kunas we have been spinning for several years, in 2019 it will be some 4 million kunas, but what we certainly want, we want to make progress to make free legal aid, although it is rhetorical free legal aid, what goes from the budget, so they pay taxpayers, to simplify the system and to get to those who need it widely in order to actually protect their rights and interests. Here, there is a Committee within the Ministry of Justice that is formed and that monitors the state and manner of the procedure, which it has come to, and we will really pay great attention to, especially with regard to the work of the Associations themselves, because there is information that some are very well teamed, some may be a little bit worse. This amount related to the allocation of funds to associations that are limited to 85,000,00 kn, is primarily due to the fact that as many associations as possible are involved and that in the larger area such assistance can be provided. There were words here about the very branches of the real where it was provided. This report does not cover one large part, which is what concerns representation in criminal proceedings, those defenses under official duty, it is also something the state finances, it does not have here. There is also no such thing as what the Croatian Bar determines also within its pro bono representation system where there are conditions, and there were also words about administrative law. We were here with the Law on trainees and taking a judicial exam and you can see that we put the focus right on administrative law because that's one big segment of law where people actually meet that from the day they're born, even the day they die, they sign up in these books. So, we will analyse the system and in any case those who need to get this legal aid should submit requests to the competent county offices, if there are certain violations, the appeal against those decisions is resolved by the Ministry of Justice, and even then go to the Administrative Court, which should all be within shorter time limits, of course, because until all these procedures are completed, some right actually remains unfulfilled. Here, thanks again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127034	Thank you, too. Mr. Alexic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127035	Thank you. Dear Minister Bošnjakovic, I know it has not been resolved yet, but it will certainly be settled in a month or two, maximum. I again appeal to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to address these legal issues as soon as possible which have not yet been resolved because the limitation of overpaid interest on 14 June 2019 must therefore be resolved as soon as possible in order for people to have legal certainty. However, if this ends as I expect, and I expect the Supreme Court to give us the right to do so after the conversion we have the right to restitution because the conversion has not won and I believe that it will reject the bank's audits because everything is said in this process, there are no new details. If this is determined, do you believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should move towards a systematic settlement of citizens' compensation on the basis of a collective judicial verdict, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127036	Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127037	I can really hardly talk about what would happen if a decision like this or such, which is certain, you know, I don't know on what basis, I will remain within the framework of the Constitution and the framework of the law and I will refrain from arguing when cases are open in court, and these still are. When they come, when there's a word, then we'll talk in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127038	Mr. Vlaovic was also asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127039	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. In the context of the announcement of the merger of the Office of State Administration with the counties, the question is whether the departments dealing with free legal aid will stay within the state administration or go to the county, or whether they are put out in smaller places of gas or not? Our proposal from the HSS not to shut down, to be as close to fellow citizens as possible, to cut their costs in their litigation procedures and already other family problems they have. And secondly, I would like to point out the problems that people who work on free legal aid due to offices that are unconditional, where family problems and trauma are usually presented and cannot be guaranteed anonymity, small salaries of those employees and often verbal attacks, and even physical threats to these officials unless there is a desired free legal aid in terms of the release from payment of court fees, etc. I think we should work to protect these individuals as officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127040	Minister Bošnjakovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127041	Thank you very much. This question you have opened, the merger means the Office of State Administration and putting them in the county's control, is one project that is being worked on, data collected, analyzed, but it actually came to the most of this idea because even now that some of the jobs of the classical state administration, such as the issue of building permits, are actually transferred to the authority of local self-government units, proved to be good. So, in fact, he wants to make the state administration more efficient than it is and one of the steps is that they come under the authority means county. In what extent it will be, I guess you'll know very quickly because you're doing an analysis, eventually there will be laws in two readings, so all of what you're actually saying will still be very much the subject of the debate. But the fundamental idea that the system works better, more efficiently, and here in the construction segment it has proved to be more important when it's in the jurisdiction of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127042	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127043	Report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and expenditure in 2017 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2017 is hereby adopted, please vote. I find that most of the votes 98 FOR and 4 were abstentions, the report was accepted in the text, as proposed by the Parliamentary Parent Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127044	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Probation service report for 2017; Reporter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 2 Prosecution Act, the debate was conducted by the Justice Committee. If the applicant wishes to provide an additional explanation. Mr. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs, before you is the report on the work of the Prosecution Service for 2017. We are already working in fact a report for 2018 which should certainly come this year on the agenda. We were here not so long ago and with the new law actually on probation and what I can say, probation is actually one service within our administration, in our prison system administration that has achieved a really big step back a few years and I can say that it's raised to a very, very high level. The probation service is actually the service without which I must say that I could no longer imagine a system of criminal law and criminal trial and in that pre-phase and investigation and in the procedure itself and in the decision to impose punishment, but of course and especially in the case of the execution of a sentence. We have today, here in the Republic of Croatia 14 district testing offices, and all these people who work there, about 100 of them mostly high professional equipment, psychologists, sociologists, lawyers, care and actually give very useful advice and cooperate, which with the state attorney's office, which with courts and in giving those insurance measures, means the presence of the defendants in the proceedings and in those other cases how to measure the punishment, how to individualise it in relation to the individual perpetrator, and also after that in the organization itself of the maintenance of the fine, and especially in that part of the organisation of work for the general good. That's where we made very big progress. At first, we had very few companies that actually accepted this institute for general good, and now that has changed significantly, and now this institute lives with us in the Republic of Croatia. What's important, we're like a system where probation is raised to a very high level, recognized within other countries, we have excellent cooperation with the Kingdom of Norway with which we work very closely on certain projects. There is a report before you, here, although in 2019, the report is for 2017, but it is full of all the statistics that give you the picture that was done in the trial, so it is important to say that 3362 persons were involved in the trial in 2017 and from... 835 persons for whom data on earlier punishment have been collected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 61% have already been convicted in criminal proceedings. That year, so in 2017, the probation service received 4122 new items, a total of 3770 cases were completed during the reporting period with the remaining on Day 31. 12. In 2017, the rest was related to what was transferred in that year, offices had 3818 items in work. They have the exact data as much as is actually organized and work for the general good so that the report contains all that to get you a picture of the work of this service that I repeat once again, raised to one very, very high level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127046	Thank you, too. The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127047	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers of Honor, So Here’s Just One Quick Question, 15. The 11th issue to you, or to your ministry, is my representative’s question, 15. 11, since it's already been over here now 3 months, you know what the legal deadline is, 30 days, I expect you and your ministry to stick to the law and I would ask you that when you're not already these 3 months, you answer the very simple question, that somehow you do it now and I can simply ask you why you answered that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127048	Minister Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127049	I'm sorry, there's been a lot of other parliamentary questions, this question has gone this way, and you'll get it very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127050	Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127051	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, one question, we had last year, this is what you noted that we have brought to the Assembly of Amendments to the Law on Testing, and I agree with you that the criminal system would not be the same without a probationary service and we know statistics that the number of prisoners has been dropping for years and that the capacity of our prison system has not been completed until the end of what is thanking God, and the assistance of the probation service and their quality work, but we are aware lately, especially here and last year, we need to see statistics, that some of the most difficult crimes that have occurred since the murders, muggingsings have just been committed by persons who have been under certain security measures, especially here, and the measures relating to psychiatric treatment and most of them not to say, have been on some form and conditional discharge so that, regardless of the good results, I don't think we can relax ourselves with the security measures and probationary services of each individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127052	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127053	So I agree with you that there is no room for some relaxation, however, as you can see, we have expanded, we have 14 regional testing offices in the Republic, we have passed through and the capacities, we want to do as much individually as possible, means to individualize treatment according to the needs of the individual because what we want when it comes out of the prison system, to be an individual who can actually live and work actively in the middle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127054	Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127055	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Working with drug addicts in the framework of probation work is part of an action plan to combat drug abuse in Croatia. During 2017, the probation service worked with 226 drug addicts who imposed a mandatory treatment of addiction. The most significant link in the drug addiction chain is drug dealers. How often are we subject to the work of probationary services in view of the penalties imposed on them are long, and what are the experimental measures most often given to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127056	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127057	Of course, we have that category in the prison system, although it's not easy to explore, to process and sanction and sanction but everything that comes into our prison system, it's clear that we're working with them and trying to adapt these treatments individually to each of them so that they actually come up with a result after they come out not to come into any kind of attack or anything to repeat such crimes. We have very precisely developed programs that our psychologists and sociologists are working on and we have adapted that individual treatment and I believe that we will monitor and analyze because every one that did it and who actually after it came out again means that we didn't do everything we needed and everything we could do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127058	- Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127059	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, I was almost hoping that we would discuss the report together in 2017 and 2018, but then in this report, it was pointed out that the project proposal to strengthen human potential in cooperation with the independent services for support of victims and witnesses was finalised and if it was approved to be financed from EU structural funds. Can you tell us today from this time distance what status he is now in and is this project approved and is it being realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127060	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127061	Yeah, that project you said, he was just on his way and we're gonna do it that way... to reach certain means of new funds, but we have already quite well excavated and we have a very decent number of people, and in particular the qualification structure is good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are very many people with high gear who are very, very qualified and who can meet all these requirements.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127062	- Mrs. Crescent. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127063	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Honored Minister Bošnjakovic, with an associate. Your ministry had a good pilot project related to the electronic surveillance of the perpetrators concerning this trial service report and within the 5 perpetrators selected in Zagreb and Zagreb County were followed for 100 days. The project was worth 300,000 euros, the money is from European funds and I am interested, on the basis of this project a cost benefit analysis and an analysis of costs and opportunities and market analysis has been made. Has the project shown that, in due course, the Ministry of Justice is ready for the permanent introduction of electronic surveillance, if we could possibly expect that, since we know that the money is at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127064	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127065	Thank you for this question. We are, exactly how you said you implemented this pilot project and that pilot project has given results that justify further actually investing in that system and we will work on it. We are now in a phase to actually analyse all the legal norms that we have to actually change in order to enable such a single system. Afterwards we will enter the project, the project really has its own financial dimension to reach, but it will not be a problem either, since we have partners, here and related to the Kingdom of Norway that exchanges experiences with us, so I think we will also have that part very quickly, this year we have on the agenda changes to the law actually a whole new law on the execution of prison sentences where we will also adapt the normative framework, and then after that we will go into realisation. Otherwise, the pilot project has shown actually many benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127066	And Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127067	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, you yourself have stated that the probation service is doing well, which is evident from the report, that only in 2017 has expanded cooperation with 72 new legal entities, i.e. it now has co-operation with 1002 legal entities. Yes, from year to year, more and more received items, but also more and more and more done. One part of my inquiry has already been used by a colleague of Irena, so my question would be referred to as house arrest. Whether and what to do about it is done because there was a lot of signs in the media about, against, in what way and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127068	Mr. Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127069	Thank you very much. That's the question I just answered about electronic surveillance, is it? The house prison is only possible to organize with this electronic surveillance. When we create a normative framework, when we completely round up the financial structure, that will be possible. I have to say, we've looked at certain examples in the region, some have, but it's far from some good standards in all of that, so I'd say that there are more on paper, more actually exist through norms than it lives the way it should. We when we implement it in our system, it will be by the highest standards and it will actually be one sequence of this pilot project that we have had and that has shown the exact justification of such a system and possible savings. Just to get to them, we have to invest first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127070	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Justice Committee want to take his word? No, I don't. He's gone. We're moving on to a debate. The first is Mr. Zeljko Ragug in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127071	Vice-President of HS, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the report on the work of the probation service for 2017, which discusses the issue of the activities of the probation service in the framework of the system in the Republic of Croatia. So, what is important to remind at the beginning is the fact that the Republic of Croatia has already adopted a law on probation in 2009 to organise its first probation offices since 2011. So that today in the Republic of Croatia, there are 14 probation offices, which cover the territory of the Republic of Croatia, usually at the level of one county, about two or three counties and two probation offices, so one in the city of Zagreb, one in the Zagreb County. All of this was organised within the framework of what has been said, the Department of Prosecution under the Department of Prison System and Prosecution under the Ministry of Justice. According to the number of cases received, according to the number of processed cases, it appears that the sampling system applying alternative criminal sanctions is simply one successful system that reduces costs and relieves the prison system. At the same time, it contributes to the resocialisation, reintegration of the perpetrators of criminal offences into social life, or the social community. It should also be recalled that in all these years, in the past 10 years, an appropriate legislative framework has been implemented, except for the operation of the Probation Service in the Republic of Croatia, so, in addition to the Law on Prosecution, the Regulation on the exercise of probationary activity, it should be recalled that this legislative framework also provides for criminal proceedings, the Law on the execution of prison sentences, then, from a strategic level, the strategic plan of the Ministry of Justice or the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic, and a series of decisions and recommendations of the Council of Europe. What is usually pointed out in public when this segment, therefore, is the realisation of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Croatia, which is, therefore, an alternative sanction which is imposed for a term of up to one year, a fine or by order of the State's attorney, which conditionally delays the prosecution or simply implements it on the pronunciation of certain persons in the Republic of Croatia, which is, therefore, a measure of compensation of the perpetrator of the criminal offence, which is, therefore, work for a general good that is realised, as stated in the Report, already in 1205 legal persons in the Republic of Croatia, which is already 72 legal persons more compared to 2016. This suggests that with the number of employees mentioned earlier within the Probation Offices, so 80 and the Centre for Probation Affairs and Development of the Probation Service 14 employees, it says that it is developing a digestive system and that it is accepted in the public in the Republic of Croatia and that the public accepts the fact that only, therefore, the budgetary effects are already being achieved by it, with its, therefore, action, using the latest scientific research, reducing the relapse of the perpetrators of criminal acts in the Republic. It is implemented in hospitals, institutions for the treatment of mental patients, in the Centres for Education and Education, in institutions that care, therefore, about older people, in Fire Departments, at the Red Cross Branches, Caritas, therefore, one wide variety of legal entities that allow the realization of this alternative criminal legal sanctions of work for the common good. With such access and the fact that 530 000 hours are implemented under this sanction in 2017. work for the general good, is confirmed by efficiency, as well as the integrity of the Probation Service system in the Republic of Croatia. In a number of other alternative sanctions and measures implemented by the Probation Service in cooperation with the police, judges of execution, the State Attorney's Office and a number of other public authorities in the Republic of Croatia, we can conclude that a system has been successfully implemented in the past 10 years under the Ministry of Justice, which is concluded when the 2017 Report is read. brings also 3 key features of this system that have been managed in 2017. and in cooperation with European institutions. It is the unification of practices, activities of the Probation Service in the Republic of Croatia, ensuring the quality of action achieved by Probation offices with criminal sanctions enforcement officers in the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, the successful implementation of one communication strategy for promotion of probationary activities in the Republic of Croatia through the website, through the publication of probational bulletins, and a series of promotional activities that accompanied and the implementation of the promotion of experimental activities through a series of brochures and leaflets. Finally, the HDZ Club will support the 2017 Probation Service Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127072	Thank you, too. Now it's in front of Mrs. SDSS's counseling club. Dragana Jeckov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127073	Dear Vice-President HS, Mr. Minister with Associates, so today we are talking about the report on the work of the Probation Service in 2017, as I said, I expected and that we will also talk about 2018 since we are new laws, will it be? Great. Before I look back on some of the most important elements in the report, I think it is necessary to say a few words about the importance of probation. When we talk about it, we should bear in mind that the task of the Probation Service is double, on the one hand the Probation Service is working on rehabilitation, resociating perpetrators of criminal offences, while on the other hand helping to protect the community from criminal behavior. The trial, as Mr. Minister said, has become an inescapable part of the criminal system at all stages of the criminal proceedings and is carried out with the aim of dispensing the criminal justice and penalty system, better reintegration of the perpetrators into society, and reducing relapses and protecting society. The importance of probation is, in fact, the most faithful of statistics that clearly states that probation reduces relapse by almost three times, which is what it says, therefore, about a very important, not only legal, but also the social component. Another important thing in this sense is that 94% of the people involved in the trial, in the trial, do not commit another crime. In Europe as well as in the world of probation services and the enforcement of alternative sanctions is not an exception but a rule. More and more states have more perpetrators under probation, so more than in prisons. Since our probation service is still young in the creation of a Croatian sampling model, best European practice has been used. This is exactly the kind of European practice, but in our way it is covered by this report. Namely, the report on the work of the probation service is comprehensive, it details the activities carried out and significant developments in the work of this service. This is all visible from statistical indicators and results achieved. The report shows optimism, satisfaction, and motivation of probation officials in the work. Based on the report, we can conclude that the conditionally said small probation service does great things and moves to what the statistical indicators point to. The results of course do not come alone behind them always stand hard work and time. The report contains precise figures, but the most important fact is that compared to 2012, it almost tripled the number of subjects in the work of the probationary service. At the end of 2017, a total of 94 employees were employed in the Prosecution Sector, for salaries, contributions, fees and transportation of employees to the Prosecution Sector in 2017, a little more than 10.5 million kuna was spent. 3,362 people were included and 4.122 new items were received for work. 3,770 items, objects were completed, and at the end of the reporting period 3,818 items were completed. Thus, it says that on average every probationary officer in the Republic of Croatia is working with about 71 persons involved in the trial, however, this number varies from 44 to 90 depending on the number of subjects and the number of probationary officers each has. Graduations alone for the sake of gold European standards are 50 to 60 convicts, and this is precisely a reflection of the motivation of probationary workers that I was talking about earlier. After probational work related to work for the general good, making reports of the judge is the most represented probation work and makes up almost 30% of all items received in 2017. Work for the general good in 2017 is most often pronounced for crimes against property, almost 40%. When planning for the execution of work for the general good and sending persons involved in testing for the execution of work for the general good, more relevant circumstances such as the type of criminal offence shall be taken into account, the risks that the perpetrator may pose for other, working skills, the ability of the perpetrator and other relevant circumstances which may affect only the execution of work for the general good. The report shows that all planned activities within the EU have been successfully implemented, support for development and strengthening the testing service in the Republic of Croatia. The pilot project was also successfully implemented, the introduction of electronic surveillance in the Republic of Croatia, which I certainly welcome. Something about psychosocial treatment, during 2017 51 items were received in which a mandatory psychosocial treatment for the removal of violent behavior, of which 9 was a special obligation, 10 as a requirement based on the state's attorney's solution and 32 as a security measure. Furthermore, I would say something about the co-operation of the probation service with other services and institutions on the one hand, the probation service is working to rehabilitate and resociate the perpetrators of criminal offences while on the other hand helping to protect the community from criminal behaviour. In the area of community protection, the Probation Service is working very closely with the police and with the prison system, primarily with timely exchange of information, and then through other forms of joint work. With regard to reintegration and resociation of perpetrators of criminal offences, the Prosecution Service is working with a whole range of different governmental and not governmental organisations. For the purpose of ending criminal offences, the perpetrators shall also be included in educational programmes, requalification programmes, etc. in this respect, cooperation with the Employment and Various Educational Institutions shall be established. It would therefore be impossible without a number of partners with whom the probation service cooperates in the community. Thus, the network of legal persons in which the work for the general good for 72 legal persons has been carried out, so that, at the end of 2017, the work for the general good could be carried out, could be executed in 1,205 legal persons. These are all elements which indicate that good organisation of the work of the probation service, co-operation with other state and not state institutions, good information on probation work, and continued monitoring of the quality of the conduct of probationary tasks at the daily level are possible to make progress in working with such a sensitive and specific population. It is precisely because of the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the SDSS that it will support the 2017 trial service report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127074	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeckov, we are now moving on to individual debates and the word was asked by Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127075	Thank you very much, Vice President, that the trial system in Croatia is functional and satisfying that we have already had the opportunity to hear from previous debates, however, it is often commercialised in the public on the Institute of Work for the General Good and there are often certain sentences that may show a lack of knowledge of the legal framework and autonomy of judges in this context. Since we have heard that there is a new law on law enforcement, since we have had amendments to the Penal Code and some other amendments to certain laws for which social interest has proved to be of interest and are in the public interest. First of all, before I say a few words and I will be very brief on the work for the general good in the context of this probation law, that is, this report, I should also commend the Minister of Justice's engagement on amendments to the Penal Code which are very important and which have proved to be in the interests of the public. And I'm glad that there's been an adoption of these amendments to the Penal Code because without your involvement and without the engagement of all of us here, there would be no such changes, and once again I want to highlight it as something that matters. When the Probation Act was here last year, then we all agreed on how important it is for probation officials to be adequately paid for their work because often their lives are actually at risk, it is often about perpetrators who are both mental patients and who have certain psychosomatic and mental disorders and these probation officials actually have no physical protection and they are found so often in some inadequate conditions in terms of not being within the institution but are within the apartments that are being re-scheduled, etc. and nothing protects them from the potential aggressive outbursts of individuals. What should be said items that were most represented are work for the common good. And here you have to make it clear, of course I don't want to go in or it's my right to get into the autonomy and decisions of the judges and why someone instead of a prison sentence up to one year is determined to work for the greater good, so that's the autonomy of the judges. After all, it is also about the conscience and the consciousness of these judges on the basis of which they make the decision that I mentioned. But here, I must say, it is then linked to these amendments to the Penal Code that until recently, there have been cases where there have been reports of work for the common good, in my personal opinion in cases where it is not quite adequate or acceptable and the wrong message is being sent to the public and especially when it comes to sexual abuse and child abuse. No matter what protection and security measures are given. So to give someone work for the greater good regardless of what the criminal law says about penalties that are up to a year and we know that until these amendments to the law are a good part of that chapter that regulates criminal law, sexual abuse and child abuse have been penalties for up to a year, from 6 months to 3 years, etc., not to list these articles now. So the bad message was sent to those judgmental decisions to society, so if you want the victim first and then to the scapegoat family. Despite the fact that measures and safeguards and security measures have been put in place. So in my personal opinion, this work for the greater good is not an adequate measure. So I repeat, I don't want to enter the autonomy of the judges, but here's this pay phone gives me the right to express my personal opinion. More so, according to the type of crimes that made the work for the general good and I see it from the table, there were 87 against life and bodies and 27 against sexual abuse and exploitation of a child where the perpetrator actually got a job for the general good. Some will say in this context the 27 aren't much, but if we look at what kind of crimes might be a lot. So 12 parolees on this table for crimes of sexual abuse and child abuse and 78 parole for crimes against life and the body and we know that these are the most severe crimes, rape, murder, etc. So, I'm a little bit out of the loop right now, and I'm aware that the subject of the Probation Service report, but these data are part of this report, and we're also pollemizing how adequate the autonomy of the judges here is in the case of these crimes. I think that's something to say here. And in any case point out that this report is adequate in terms of the data we've received. The Ministry of Justice has taken what should have been done to bring the probation service to the level to which it should be brought in accordance with European bodies' guidelines and we have also seen this valuable project. And I hope that the future responsibility of judges, that is, their autonomy and the law that gives them a range of opportunities, will go beyond that range to choose more rigorous sanctions out of the beauty of their ability when it comes to these most severe crimes and not to work for the greater good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127076	Thank you, too. The replica was sought by Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127077	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you told your colleagues in your presentation that the sampling system worked well then you said they needed better and better quality conditions. I think the system should certainly be upgraded that these 14 services and facilities that exist in the Republic of Croatia are not enough, I think it would be good for us from the HSS that in all counties there are 20, and that this would be a way to make this sampling system closer to the citizens or users of these needs. And you also said the amendments and the Penal Code, I agree with you, are essential because it is unacceptable for yesterday's convict to become an official fugitive and Mr. Dolaski where the system has failed from the court to the ministry as it is possible, and it was known what the verdict would be, that he would flee from the system, that he would remain out of control, and as far as the trial is concerned, some of them seem to have concluded legal agreements on working for the general good, that is, for their good in Medjugorje or Mostar, whether there are those legal persons with whom the Republic of Croatia signed the contract, so some there are doing these good work for their own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127078	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Petrievcan Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127079	Thank you very much. First, I didn't say that. Amendments to the Penal Code have already taken place and we voted on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice and the HDZ Club. Secondly, the system is functional. And thirdly, every functional system has opportunities to improve in line with European guidelines, and some elements of this promotion have already been taken, as we heard in the previous debate, and in the report by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127080	Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127081	Thank you, dear vice president, colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. I really agree with most of what you've said, and it's about, uh, bad practice that's been involved in crimes against, therefore, crimes against children and young people, and sexual abuse. But what I would like to point out is that we, with all this you have stated, need and special law, antipedophilic law, in which it will be further emphasized, and treated in a way that makes the public far more sensitive, and that the public is, in fact, that all of us are doing much more in prevention and awareness of the need to punish the perpetrators of these acts more strongly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127082	Answer, Mrs. Petrievcan Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127083	Dear colleagues, don't take this personally, but you're still wrong here. So Croatia does not need anti-pedophilic law. Why? Because the only anti-pedophilic law, collokvially called Maria's law, has Serbia, and this whole law is referred to their Penal Code, and we have adopted amendments to criminal law, which regulates the entire chapter of the Penal Code, concerning sexual abuse and child exploitation. So we don't need a separate law, which would refer all criminal sanctions to the Penal Code, so I think you see there's no need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127084	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127085	Report on the work of the Probation Service for 2017 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. Report on the work of Probation Service for 2017 is accepted, please vote. I find that with 100 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against, you accepted the report in the text, as suggested by the Parliamentary Parent Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127086	We move to the next item of the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127087	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I must at the beginning say that it is indeed a pleasure and when one law comes from the opposition, that there is also a minister, what might be easier for us to say, and that is what we have given the two laws. So, one law is about supplementing the law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, and the other law was about the state that everything and that law, we've made some kind of parallel, but here's what it is, we'll discuss this law. What we should say in the opening is, and what is probably a respected minister is absolutely aware, and the fact that the judiciary is really in the eyes of our fellow citizens, when we have to evaluate some things, in a certain way, then, they always point out that ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary, as well as when you talk to the owners from, who come to our space, then says that one of the key investment problems in our space, is the problem of the judiciary. We have been going through these changes for the reasons we wanted and we think that this could result in greater efficiency and transparency in the work of judges. I just wanted to get a few facts straight. Looking at that number of judges, and the number of cases that were on DSV, in 2016 alone, it sanctioned four, four judges and four cases, two reproofs, one cash, one conditional solution. When you look at the statistics, in 2016, Croatia is in second place by the number of judges per capita, there are 41 judges in Croatia, while Ireland has 3.5. Then by looking at the number of judges by, compared to solved, that is to say, when we look at the number of pending cases, there is a reverse situation, as we are immediately second to the number of judges that we have on 100,000 inhabitants, there are immediately another by number of pending cases which by the end of 2016 amounted to 508.935. When you compare these facts a little bit, then you have, you really see that the fewer judges and the more unsolved cases, the more solved, that is, the smaller the number of pending cases, so there is this disproportionate that is very interesting, and very indicative. In our public space, this subject of the judiciary, and this problem of the judiciary somehow developed and somehow marked already anthological characters, such as syncope and that famous bear dog, which, on several occasions, had somehow characterized our judiciary. I am sure that the resolution minister is not satisfied with it, I am sure that the Secretary of Justice is not satisfied either, with the number of cases resolved or better resolved, and I am sure that he is not very comfortable when in the context of the judiciary he always refers to this unfortunate bear that barks or does not bark or the already famous syncope that everyone has been invited to. We at the club GLAS and HSU are aware of the facts, you have that cause, the cause of the free cream, but we, however, are not going to give up, we will go with the amendments and additions of the law, some times these are some important, significant, major changes, but sometimes there is only one provision of the law, which is in particular, because we are absolutely sure that this is the subject to be discussed. You, the experience we have, which in the executive, which in the legislative authority, speaks of the following, you can work hard, you can change regulations, you can change laws, you can change people in certain positions, but you have to make a step. We are absolutely certain that, in order to make a step forward and to increase legal certainty in our country, and also the confidence of the economy in the judiciary, and I am sure that when I say that there is no one in this Assembly who stands for something else, we all advocate greater legal certainty, we all advocate for the citizens' trust in our judicial system, but also the trust of the businessmen. And on the other hand, we went with one bill of law, so I tie it to this other one where we have defined a little bit, and we think there should be a different system of punishment, but in this bill where the system of rewarding or stimulating the work of judges is, and we think that this should apply to work in the previous year. Someone who, according to certain criteria, worked well in the previous year, in the following year can be rewarded in certain cases 10% on their salary and in another 30. Equally, when you are an opposition, then you always get the answer of the ruling and on every committee you get it that way, you don't vote. However, the possibility of talking about it in the Assembly, but the possibility that we were talking about it, but the possibility that we might have predicted something is fine with us. And what I can say from this pay phone right now, I, the power of the hand is the power of the hand, but this provision, think about it, a little bit of it, if you need to work it out, work it out, but, I'm sure of the following, there is no progress in the judiciary unless you introduce some elements that are measurable. So, on the one hand, you really need to reward judges who do good work, on the other hand, you really need to give the possibility of punishing those who do bad work. When in the Republic of Croatia the judge who works well will be able to be rewarded for his work, then the interest will actually be growing and greater to work well. My experience was next, and I can do this one link, we went into the process of legalization, you have 800,000 items for which you decided to solve it in a relatively short period, we had to introduce something that would stimulate people to do. You know what we did? We started on the Ministry's website to publicly publish which unit of local self-government, which was the city that had the right to have its Office, or which county, how many items there were, and then it happened to me that they called me either mayors or mayors and they knew better than me who was in which place. So the percentage and number of cases solved, they said, did you see that we progressed from eighth place to second place? So, our laws can be great, your laws can be the frames you set perfect, everything always falls on people. Therefore, the reflection of our situation in our judiciary is our judges and human error, but you have to introduce some element to improve it. We in GLAS and HSU are an absolute point of view that the way that those judges who work well to be stimulated, those who do bad work to be punished through another law, that the work of judges is also no problem that on the pages of the Ministry of Justice and show which judge, who has a percentage of solved cases, would absolutely be one of the elements that could improve the work of judges. I'm sure what, no matter what, the minister can agree, which is that we need to find models to improve the work of judges, how to stimulate judges. I am sure that he too feels bad when in our judiciary and according to certain criteria of the Republic of Croatia is placed between the remaining 28, in the future between the 27 EU countries and when he sees that he is at the top of those bad criteria, and by good criteria below, to make everything change. None of us have a magic wand, none of us have a solution that we can give right now, but we really think that one of the ways is one of the solutions. I have to admit that on Friday, when there was a vote, if I let us go into another reading, I would immediately faint there because there, I don't know what would happen to, say, one opposition proposal just let go of another reading, so through another reading that maybe we could work it out a little bit and work it out. I may somehow throw this glove to my colleagues from HDZ along with your partners, let's try to put one bill of law into another reading, so let's try another reading, possibly some suggestions or suggestions that you'll have, install and say, here in this House, it's possible that one proposal comes from the opposition, and by ruling it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127088	Thank you. You have one replica from Mrs. Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127089	Thank you very much, I've listened very carefully to my colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, and I've opened up one logical question, of course we're all for being a judge autonomy and we're not getting into it, but somehow it sounds like it's easy for judges who are doing good, judges who are doing bad, so we're opening the question. Let's say qualitative and quantitative indicators, I'm clear quantitative indicators, number of solved cases, etc., but what about qualitative, is a judge who has a large number of solved cases, and by order, here's a general good work for child sexual abuse crimes, is he successful by quantitative criteria, if he's not qualitatively, who's going to determine what are the qualitative criteria. Because he may have a number of objects, but you understand there's one dissection, so I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127090	Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127091	Thank you very much, thank you very much for your replica, so every time you do something, you can work on two models. One model is systematic, another model is we have a problem, we offer one solution, so if through work we see that it needs to be improved and improved. This model systematically let's establish all the criteria by all means, by all means, and as we determine it goes through 4, it's been eight years. The second model is let's offer one solution to knowing that he has some drawbacks, let him live, let him last six months, one year, and then we'll go ahead and finish him up. I can really agree with you that the number of cases is not an element, but the number of cases in relation to the subject, in relation to the court, compared to the story, of course, that the number of cases solved by someone as you say, it can simply, somewhere it is complex and there is no problem that certain criteria are established in relation to the court and the rest of them are determined by it. But this is how we actually spin around in circles, like that cat that hunts for its own tail, something we want to do, we have an idea, and we're spinning in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127092	The answer, no answer was already, something I was playing, thank you very much, thank you, all right. If the committee's reporters want to take the floor, no. If the government's representative, Mr. Justice Minister Bosnjakovic, wishes to further explain his opinion, the opinion of his ministry, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127093	Dear Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs, Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, on behalf of the promoter, I, of course, presented at the first point today the government's proposal on the salaries of judges and I will stay with that proposal. I can't support it, suggest one, and now support yours, but what you said to think about what you're saying is we'll think about it. Because I think actually the public administration's goal in general is to pay and all the receipts are actually in sync with work. With what we've been going through today, we're actually relying on a system that's been functioning for years in a way that established coefficients are related to rank and judges and state attorneys, which is important, in your proposal there are no state lawyers, and they're part of this judicial system equal to judges and we're absolutely certain that we're going to follow in total what's happening in the widest system and how these values are determined, that we're going to watch what's going on. But this is a very important measure for us today because several times the value is basically that we've reduced judges to some level, to give them back as much as possible in today's conditions and to solve that imbalance within the system, which is actually that, in some ways, the judges of municipal courts who actually do a large part of the jobs and who actually have great competences to even them out with these other judges of first degree courts, means administrative and commercial. We're aware that's not all, that it won't lead to better justice tomorrow, that it's just one of the measures. As you know, we've done and there's been a scene since 1.1. a new network of courts that we believe that this number of objects that are now unequally distributed, someone has more objects, someone has fewer objects, that will lead to unification, so what you're doing will mean for the number of objects and for the quality of them, we now have in the system that someone is overloaded, and someone is actually more comfortable living because in some court where there's a smaller tide. And what I actually believe most, and that's what I believe in digitization. This segment of actually the total of this administration was pretty depreciated about digitization and here when we do everything we've drawn there we'll certainly get better results. There's a lot of criticism on the judiciary, clearly you've asked the question, I'm not satisfied either, but your judges aren't happy and they'd want more and more faster and better, but the number of cases is actually at a very, very large still, he has one tendency of getting down, now we're at a million and 200 and something thousand a year, I want to believe that's the consequence and that we're a more orderly state and that's how it's going to continue. Because every time a thing comes to your court it means that something before the court actually didn't work out and that it happened somewhere, this disorder happened. So whatever's less going to be less pressure on the court, and all of these measures that we're proposing now are digitisation and this network that's revived, I think it's going to lead to better results because every year we solve more about what's being taken into the courts. It's very much, and I believe here in the future that we're actually going to come into some kind of balance of what's normal for the judiciary to receive, but with more orderly procedures on all other segments so that it won't be too much. I'll stay with our opinion, we've made our proposal, we don't want to say anything negative about yours at all, I think the goal you want to achieve is with ours. After this new reorganisation, we will have to make and intervene and framework criteria mean that we will set some standards and within which we will tell what we think is objectively to solve. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127094	Thank you very much. Mrs Turina Đuric asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127095	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I understand from the position of position and authority that you will not be inclined and that the position will not be inclined to accept this proposal. And also listening to this morning's debate and your proposal for this law, I think it would actually be an ideal combination of these two proposals, your proposal, which was this morning and this proposal of GLAS, precisely because it would raise wages to our judges which I believe is a good reason to raise wages, they are not adequate, but on the other hand, that this whole system turns a little bit into a system of competence that could give much better results, so if anything else and in that part to solve a larger number of items in a shorter period of time. And it would be good for you to refer such a single proposal as soon as possible as a government or as a competent ministry. Well, I know you won't accept our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127096	Thank you, thank you very much. We move to debate, first of all by clubs, first Mr. Marko Šimić is in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127097	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Mrs. Mrak Taritas on behalf of the promoter, Honored Ministers, Honored colleagues and fellow MPs. In the next minutes, I will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officials, which was referred by the Club of Representatives of the GLAS and HSU by Act of 14 June 2018 to the Croatian Assembly. This bill proposes establishing a system of awarding judges, introducing the possibility of increasing the salary of judges depending on the number of cases solved and the quality of decisions taken. The proposer believes that this would create an incentive environment for the work of judges in order to be as high as possible, in order to behave more in a judicial capacity that would ultimately result in a reduction in the number of pending cases in the Republic of Croatia. At the very beginning, I must say that in view of my duties as a judge and considering my duties as one of the duties that lies in the government's trio, it is a well-acceptable finding and position that judges who do so are responsible for their work so that they can behave better if they are rewarded in cash and financial terms. I therefore believe that people who are judges and who enter the calling of judges and judges have truly special moral standards, special standards in some sense of self-awareness about the need to act in a fair, fair way, respect the state, respect the legislation and legal system in which they work, in which they are located. I find this financial incentive not really the best way to encourage judges. And I think that the system that we have today and we have today's evaluation of the quality of the work of judges is for this kind of doing the job, that is, the behaviour of our duties much more adequate than the system proposed by this bill. I also don't think that some new standards should be set, so in the justice system which may be the most sensitive, we have a system that would be much easier to introduce a way of rewarding as proposed by this law, perhaps in the judiciary not yet today, we now have a good situation to talk about this bill and I really think that this is a well-intentioned and good idea for us to engage in this debate and to conduct a quality dialogue and discourse in the Croatian Parliament. But I think that even if we passed a law like this so that today, without concrete indicators of the effects of this law, it might be a little rash and prematurely passed. There are already some considerations at the global and European level where certain independent bodies have observed therefore the award of judges in this way and question the independence or independence of judges, therefore, when mobilising financial resources. While I was thinking about what to say on this subject, so I tried to really consider this question from different aspects of my mind actually came up with a way of rewarding. We have a situation where the pay base or pay base must be determined. However, it may be possible to find a way for the basis of the salary or some kind of reward to be linked to the Croatian judiciary rating and its position assessed by the EU institutions or to relate to the state of growth of the economy so that the entire judicial and judicial system from the Supreme Court to all other levels could thus be encouraged to introduce measures that will further advance this system, therefore, by the trial. But we return to the subject and to this formal part, looking at the data on unsolved cases by species over a 10-year period, there is a trend in reducing their number or solving more cases than was observed in courts. Looking at the aspect of the inflow of cases as an indicator of the success of the trend in the reduction of the number of pending cases has been observed back several years, which is evidence that the reform measures taken have an impact on the urgency and efficiency of the courts. When comparing the analysis, we should take into account courts of different competences, we cannot compare the quality and speed of solving simple cases in lower courts with, for example, commercial cases that are more complex than civil or administrative cases. The complexity of the subject-matter and the greater responsibility for decision-making. A number of problems that have burdened the Croatian judiciary for years have long been identified and detected and a whole package of measures has been adopted to address these problems or at least to address some better results of the Croatian judiciary. In no way can we be satisfied with the results obtained, I will only list some of the problems so that it is recognised and seen in them and the awareness of us in the HDZ Club because we do not think that this judicial system is ideal and we think and we believe that it should be upgraded and worked on from day to day, and therefore these are problems that plague our judiciary are chronic overload, ineffectiveness of the judiciary, inadequate material spaces, conditions of work of judges, unsuitable, non-transparent systems of rewarding and promotion of judges, the lack of system-based professional education of judges, the irrational network of courts, the staff inequitableness of courts, the technical failure of courts, the lack of established court practice. The continuity of progress exists from accession negotiations when it started with the reorganisation and rationalisation of the judicial network, the reorganisation measures and the rationalisation of the network of courts and state lawyers with precisely established adaptation measures and judicial system reforms led to a significant reduction in the number of pending cases, to the better use of judges by removing the current problems on the way of creating a competent judiciary. I also think about establishing effective and authoritative mechanisms for evaluation, expertise and industriousness of the leaders of the judicial authority. The salaries and pensions of judges must be adequate and proportionate to the status, reputation and responsibilities of their service and shall be periodically compared. Following the reorganisation of the Croatian judiciary, an additional incentive is expected. Today, in the mornings, we also had the opportunity to hear the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia just this, the amendment and the addition of this law, which provides for an increase in the base for the 6% salary calculation. Respect for the requirement for judicial salaries to be firm and objective according to clearly established criteria in accordance with the integrity of the judicial profession and the burden of responsibility. In fact, when we look at the problem earlier, I said that all courts don't have the same task that quite often cases can't just be measured in the number of cases or solved cases cannot and should not be the only way of assessing judges' work. Quality, we can talk about it with refuted, abolished decisions, modified etc., but when you take something that is current today, it is the case of Agrokor. The most conscientious judge, if he were really committed to this problem and neglected all other disputes, he would only have a base salary and couldn't really make a reward. I know that such cases as Agrokor are very little, I know that with the cases of the judge can make a certain balance in solving the case and therefore work in certain cases, but I believe that if we consider that judges are to be motivated by money like this legal proposal, then we can also say that maybe this law would lead to judges stop dealing or slow down the work on serious, complicated and complex objects and only deal with those laxable objects in order to have good statistics. So on the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is really dealing with this problem in 2017, we had a full reform, we had one package of laws in 2018. I believe that the government has shown that the judiciary and justice in the Republic of Croatia is really keeping an eye on it, and the Club of Representatives has determined, according to the first law proposed today, that it will also support it from everything I have said in this debate, from the position of the Government and the position of the Justice Committee, so visible from this debate, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot accept such a bill as proposed by the GLAS Club and HSU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127098	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127099	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Croatian judiciary is not satisfactory, you mention here that there are fewer cases unresolved, but it is not only in the number of resolved cases but also in the judgments as they are. I have one solution before me to the County Court in Zadar by Judge Željko Gjerđu, in which you watch this, in the executive case of the executive head of Raiffeisenbank Gnas eGen from Austria, represented by the legal representative, etc., against the executives Progress Zadar d.o.o. Krushevo, represented by legal representative Budimir Saverin from Zadar for the payment of money demand, decides on complaints from the perpetrators, against the municipal court's solution in Zadar, says he rejects the addition of the appeal declared against the municipal court's solution in Zadar and as far as I understand from this ruling or solution on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, this Raiffeiesenbank should actually take over the property and that apartment in Zadar, Splitska 8 on the first floor of the building. And now watch what it says here in this solution, it says, in addition to the complaint of 6 May 2013, the performer Progress Zadar d.o.o. submits a copy, a copy of the CNB letter from which Raiffeisen Gnas eGen, an executive in this procedure, does not have a license to work in the Republic of Croatia, nor has she ever had or asked the CNB. The complainant considers the registration of the right to be inadmissible, as well as this executive procedure, and suggests that it be suspended. However, all of these arguments that he made in his appeal did not lead to the fact that the execution was essentially stopped or that the solution was, or that, the municipal court’s decision, to be annulled. Now, look at this, Head of Raiffeisen Bank Gnas eGen, points out that the wrong-doer is calling for a provision of Article. 109. The Law on Mandatory Relations, since although a case is being brought before the Trade Court in Zadar in order to determine the integrity of the Treaty, the procedure has not yet reached a verdict, so the appeal of the perpetrators to the procedure and the cited provision is wrong because it is contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia to prejudge any decisions in the proceedings taken before the competent authorities and thus in this procedure among the parties. What's this about? Ha, you see. He's leading the dispute over the integrity of the Treaty, as I understand it, with the bank. However, although the dispute is under way in the commercial court or is not settled in favour of the bank, the municipal court, as I understand from this verdict, is still making a decision to take property to a man. Now, ladies and gentlemen, why does this matter? Well, it is important because thousands of Croatian citizens lost their property in the executive procedures of foreign credit institutions and the question arises whether the Croatian judiciary should protect the primary interests of Croatian citizens or foreign credit institutions? I'm saying this because each other's interests are clearly opposed. The aim of foreign credit institutions is to take over the property of citizens, and the aim of citizens is to save their property or keep it to themselves. I can say that Live Wall as a party is not impartial or that it is biased in these proceedings and that it believes that the state and its legal system should protect the interests of Croatian citizens, or put them first, rather than place them in the same position as our citizen and foreign credit institution. Why? Well, the citizens are ours, and the banks are foreign. But the question arises why the state doesn't do it, some speculate that maybe these foreign banks are actually founded with money from the Republic of Croatia, so that then actually some people from the Republic of Croatia over these foreign banks actually take over real estate, but these are all speculations, I don't want to get into them, I just want to point out that apparently people are left without real estate, so come out of this solution on behalf of the Republic that I only saw. However, I wouldn't even blame the judge here, so even if this was a solution I have in my hands authentically, even if it were, really, even if it weren't for any mistake, it wasn't the judge's fault, the judge made the decision he made, it was his right, however, the state that observes all this and acts like it's none of its business, it's her fault. Ladies and gentlemen of HDZ, you are talking about patriotism, you love Drazen Žanka, that song "From the century to the seventh, here live Croats" and as no one will move us out, this, what, we will stay there, however, the fact is that people are mass evicting from the country, the fact is that people are moving out of their own property, and soon, in a minute or in which hour on the Living Wall will go the video of a family from Zagreb, which the bank is also disposing of, to which they take away the only real estate. Of course, you HDZ gentlemen will say, "Listen, Mr. Pernar, it's all within the law, that's how it has to be." However, the question is, would the people agree with your interpretation, with your position? My opinion is that most citizens would not, my opinion that most citizens believe that the interests of our people should be put ahead of the interests of foreign banks. I would even extend our citizens because foreign banks harass, or rather, end people regardless of their nationality, gender, gender, whatever, orientation to sexual, religious, etc. So, I would dare label foreign banks as opposing entities to the interests of our citizens and invite you to step aside from hypnosis to realize that it's real estate and real people and real life fates that the Law that you created and the legal system you created and the justice system you created, huh, those people are going to be left without their property, eventually strangers in your own country. According to Slavko Kulic in his time, the Republic of Croatia has already bankrupted, so it brings its own citizens to the banks for sacrifice. This executive system is unique in Europe for one interesting thing. In fact, we are another country in the European Union by the number of judges per capita, so there are very, very many judges, on the other hand, whether we can say that we are the country with the best or other legal order in the European Union. Can we say that? Can we say ladies and gentlemen, that Croatia is a country of justice? Can we say that Croatia is the rule of law? Is Croatia a country where there is no untouchable? By my judgment, unfortunately, no. In my court, there are untouchables, there are those above all authority, or those for which the laws do not apply. Unfortunately, unfortunately, it seems to me that you as politicians, gentlemen of the HDZ, have contributed to your decisions in such a state, and that your colleagues from the SDP have done nothing to reverse it. And unfortunately, the current state of affairs in a country where citizens are buried by thousands, or rather hundreds of thousands of executions, is actually the consequence of your policy, I think there are even millions of executions. And even these many executives are led by public notaries, although in the whole of the European Union, such executions of monetary claims are essentially guided by judges, with us by public notebooks. And the HDZ government has promised to amend the executive law in favour of the perpetrators. Gentlemen of the HDZ, I didn't promise it, it's, I mean, I promised to do it, but I'm not clearly in the position of power, but you are, you are in power, you promised the perpetrators a more human system, you promised the perpetrators a more human system, and instead of an executive system with a human face, with a human face, you buried them with the performance. Apparently, only HRT sends 100,000 a year, so it was written in the media at least in time, so ask yourself what kind of system it is, when only one entity, only one entity sends 100,000 a year. So how many of these dots are there right now, what are the chances of these people being saved from that executive machine, and you've ever wondered how many people were sad about these hooves, how sad people were, and bitter, and frustrated, and who, imagine home husband and wife, the family, they, people arguing about each other for these hooves and so on. So you're ruining through this executive system of human relations, destroying a family. And when all that is added to that by the delegations of foreign credit institutions, it is evident that many people are eventually moving out of our country. And you say it is less unemployed, yes, it is less unemployed, but the fact is that many of those you don't have today as unemployed have not found a job in Croatia but have moved out of Croatia, they don't live in Croatia anymore. So, you can keep the Croatian flag in one hand, cross in another hand, you can, together with Drazen Žanka at HDZ meetings, sing a song There live Croats, you can stand up in an anthem unlike me who once did not get up on an anthem, you can hold a right hand on the heart, you can both hands, and the left, and hold on the heart, sing an anthem, an upright stasis, raised heads, but unfortunately, it is by my court farce, play, one play, it is by my judgment a sad height of tragedy in your direction, a tragedy which will ultimately end, not only by breaking the judicial system of our people, but by breaking the will of our people and in fact by moving many more people out of our country, and the sad fates of life. I say sad because a lot of people under the strain and the pressure of these executions, they killed themselves, committed suicide. They're no longer alive today. Do you feel your own personal responsibility for all these cases? I sincerely doubt it, you probably think that the laws you created have nothing to do with the fate of these people, but I will tell you that on the day of the court, on the day that we all stand before a righteous judge, each of us will account for our actions, and then you too will stand before him, and he will ask you what you have done in your life and then your actions will come out of sight of the gentlemen of HDZ. Then those stories of God, faith, Jesus, salvation, and all other things will be revealed as dishonest, as false, as hypocrites. And she says what it's worth to a man to win the whole world and lose his own life. I fear that in that desire you will crush the treasures of this earth, you will lose that only indestructible and eternal treasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127100	Okay. I leave it to the promoter to assess whether the speech was in line with the law, as far as I'm concerned, uh, I'm a tolerance and I let Mr. Pernar finish his speech, and now we move on to the gentleman, to individual debates, and to Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127101	Thank you very much. In the morning, we discussed a version of the Law which, I can say, is that, uh, the Law, which the colleagues of GLAS and HSU have referred to in the parliamentary procedure, apparently hastened the legislator himself or the government to move a little faster with its Law and that, in some ways, the opposition has fulfilled its task, which is to smoke behind the neck the position to solve the problems that have accumulated. The previous two exhibitions were colleagues from the clubs that we saw and saw in the assembly and we will continue to see, colleagues from HDZ clearly praised the current achievements in the judiciary, but did not point out what should be done except to raise the salaries of judges, and colleague Pernar held one of his lectures typically so that we already know how we hear and see this here, but he also didn't say anything that should be done to make the judiciary advance and that we have a better, better judiciary than he established the situation and gave examples of what it looks like in practice. What is unfortunately the fact that the conduct of Croatian courts shows one thing that needs to be concerned, which is that judges judge their colleagues with greater amounts of mental pain or an insult to honor than those who are ordinary, ordinary citizens do. This also indicates the need to start a debate on the Croatian judiciary as soon as possible, and that this law, the bill, goes in order to raise the issue of justice in Croatia, and to make a step there. The need for this debate is becoming more urgent and it was one of the reasons why colleagues and have referred this law to the parliamentary procedure, because we see that more and more frequent cases of public speech and freedom of artistic expression are, lately we are aware of the verdicts of journalists, publishing houses, judgments for mental pain due to satire, with judgments that clearly go to lead to the deterioration of the social climate and the threat of democracy. An increase in wages will solve only one small part of the problems in the judiciary because then it protects against one big thing, and that's corruption, when you have bigger wages, then you're less prone to corruption. But what I would suggest and what I would suggest is something we should have heard this morning, and even today from colleagues is what should be done in the Croatian judiciary besides the increase in wages. One thing at a time, one thing that should absolutely be done is to end a lifetime of judges' choices, that's something that caused us to have and maybe even cases where judges don't do their job well because no one can do anything to them. He's been elected a judge for life, so no one can do anything, and it's also seen that the State Judiciary Council refers to these judges who don't carry out their duties, no judge has lost his office, so he has not lost his honor, but most of them have been suspended until the man's age is completed and he's gone away, he's retired. You also need to regulate the bar fees because if you're a lawyer you earn 100 times more than if you're a judge and clearly that people run off to lawyers instead of a quality bar staying in court. It is also necessary to review the judicial staff because there are obviously a lot of them, a lot of judges and appointed by unobstructed criteria, and it is clear that all judges do not have the same quality as they should have. The system of the bodies appointed by the judges, as well as the criteria for appointment, needs to be thoroughly changed, as we have seen from many examples in the past time that the State Judiciary Council has appointed brothers, its own descendants members of the council on judicial duty. It is also important and there is the role of the legislator, especially the Ministry of Justice, to prevent the maximum lengthening of court proceedings from taking place for 10 years. It is necessary to monitor the work of all judges, exclude those who do not belong there and it is important to apply objective criteria and maximum transparency, therefore, political similarity or belonging to interesting lobbys must be disabled. We know that's not the case. As long as the Croatian judiciary is ruled by a dynasty system of inheriting judges from father and son or from father to son, or from father to daughter, as long as the State Judiciary Council protects the unhappiness, bad judge and there are no clear rules the system cannot be arranged. As long as it's more important for the verdict whether you're the General's son or an ordinary Pula mortal, we can't discuss the order of the judiciary. The judiciary in Croatia needs ventilation and what has been proposed to us by this law as colleagues of GLAS have shown that pay should also clearly have criteria for efficiency and then base and advance judges, but also value how much the judge, the judge, is worth. We have to stop further degradation of the Croatian judiciary, as I said this morning and we're 120 on the list, on the list of the judiciary by whether it has influence outside or not, and that's something to worry about. Much better than us is Slovenia and Serbia, it is not good that we are in association with Mozambique and Cambodia. And this is the current situation of the Croatian judiciary, which obviously needs to be changed but not just by raising wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127102	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127103	Thank you, Vice President, you have well said that your colleagues from GLAS are in favour of the bill which will also support the ruling and the minister to present their bill and here is certainly a good deed and it is good to go towards increasing salaries and people working in the justice system and officials and judges because it is a shame that since 2009, there has been no increased personal income for these people, there is no independent judiciary and an effective judiciary if we do not reward people who work and therefore our proposal has gone in the direction of why not to increase salaries already since 1.1 this year if they have already been secured funds in the budget, but only since 1 March of this year. And secondly, the important word for rewarding those who work more, and this way of increasing wages doesn't make it possible for everyone to make some difference and rank in the same class so that they can reward those who work higher and do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127104	Answer Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127105	The problem of the Croatian judiciary is corruption, and it is widespread in the judiciary, regardless of what is now no longer said to be corruption at all, and there is more than ever, and there needs to be a new agreement and opposition and positions to go into the fight against corruption in the judiciary and in other parts of the state, so that what happened to some other countries in Croatia does not happen to the emergence of systemic corruption where everyone is simply used to that there is certain corruption anywhere. We also need to ensure that we have a transparent system that will also be transparent in the election of judges and to introduce civil oversight over the election of judges in the State Judiciary Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127106	Thank you very much, and I will now give the word to Mrs. Dark-Taritash and that closing word as far as this law is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127107	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we, on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU, referred this law to the parliamentary procedure on 15 June 2018. It is absolutely logical to discuss it today, when the rulings proposed their law and of course what the minister said we have one bill of law and we cannot stand behind this law. But we have truly seen this law as a single glove and as an opportunity for ruling to wonder, let us start with the facts. It is a fact that, regardless of our fellow citizens, regardless of the investors of the judiciary, they always judge the poor grades. In fact, when you take some objective things, how does the EU measure us that we are here when something bad is at stake very high, when the good is low. The fact is, there's certainly no one who wouldn't want justice to be something better and to make a move. I can agree with the minister in the part where he said, a part of the shift will be both in relation to digitisation or rather compared to publicly available individual judgments, on publicly available individual solutions, on the publicly available network and this openness. The public is open indeed in part to solve this problem, but we will not solve this problem until the end. Our idea is like I said before, and now I can say it again, you have to take a step, you have to shake the system a little bit, you have to say a little bit, let's try something else. We weren't so naive that we believed that by ruling this would say "share us in the head" and say something you did really great and we'll take it, but if it is, in part, exactly what the minister said, and that's what we'll see, we'll consider it, we'll go in that direction, we've achieved our result, and it's also part of the pleasure in our club. We want to point out that justice is not good and we want to point out that we need to find some other tools, other methods, other methodologies. You measure through the next six months or a year and then try to stream this proposal on certain elements of the amendments to the law and go on that trail. We will, of course, give support and we are not vain enough to tell you, which is what we first came up with or anything else. What's important to us, it's important to us that in relation to the existing system we try to do steps and to repeat no one has a magic wand, no one with that magic wand can offer a solution, that I'm sure there would already be a minister who would, with that magic wand, peel and offer something else, but take this proposal to track it down, work out if there's a possibility of cooperation then there's opportunity and cooperation and ruling there, in that way and that way, but what must be a common goal for all of us, which is that we have a more effective judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127108	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127109	Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, first reading, P.Z. No. 367. It is proposed by the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officials, which the Government and the Parliamentary Working Authorities do not support, is adopted. Let's vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127110	Mr. President, you read it wrong, you said this was the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal, so you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127111	The promoter is the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU, and to me, it's like that, I apologize for the mistake, so we want to re-vote? You got it. So, there has been an error in the work of the service, I apologize, it is a mistake, we will repeat the vote, so I am voting on the next conclusion that the draft law on the addition of the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials which the Government and the parliamentary working bodies do not support, is therefore proposed by the GLASs and HSU Representatives Club, please vote. I find that the proposal for a conclusion did not reject the required number of votes, 25 MPs were against, 5 abstentions, 72 were against.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127112	And now we move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a conclusion on the opening of the procedure for negotiations on amendments to the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the GLAS and HSU, and on the basis of Article 33 and in relation to Article 165. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy, the government delivered an opinion. Would the motioner's representative like to give an additional explanation, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127113	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, there on 20 April 2018, on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU, we referred the proposal to the Assembly procedure for the conclusion of the procedure for the opening of negotiations on the amendments of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia. Thanks to the Rules of Procedure, we remember that evening or all-night debate where we were not really in favour of this Rules of Procedure, we succeeded, of course thanks to 30 signatures, to come, and this is a great success for us, that we came to the plenary session of HS and that we opened the possibility of discussing 4 Treaties between the Republic of Croatia and between the Holy See, to discuss this in HS. In doing so, we are a civil liberal alliance, we are liberals. We certainly will not lead this debate, nor do we want to lead to the question of religion, the question of religion, the question of the world's horizon. This debate is not against any religion, nor against the Churches, we as liberals believe that one of the fundamental freedoms, freedom of religion, and if it were threatened in any way in the Republic of Croatia, we would be among the first to oppose it and lead or fierce debates. Four contracts have been signed. 3 The contracts were signed in 1996, and the fourth Treaty was signed on 9 October 98, so more than 20 years ago, and these Treaties concluded that when certain indicators are obtained, that is, the reasons for the revision of these Treaties to be launched. These are the Treaties, the Treaties between the two states, between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See. When we were getting ready at all to open up the topic and the problem of the Vatican Treaties, then I was the one who said, my people where we're going to go first, so with the Vatican, let's see why. Because ignorance is a great danger to you. When someone tells you the Vatican Treaties, then your ignorance says, don't touch it, where it is, it's the Church, don't go to church, don't do anything, and then when you read it, you see that it's four contracts between the two states of which one state is in charge of something, and the other state doesn't have much of a responsibility. And therefore, in our conclusion to launch the Vatican Treaties, we have stated precisely in which we consider the Treaty to have obtained the conditions for launch. At this point, we have not mentioned anything that can be much simpler, and these are the contracts that we have with the Croatian Bishop's Conference. We're aware of all the elements. Therefore, in order to launch negotiations or audits at all, negotiations on the revision of the Vatican Treaty should be 2/3 in the Parliament, behind this, there must be another party, of course, that the other side must be for that, but we need to discuss this. The HDZ will not discuss this on purpose now because in some campaign, regardless of the winds blowing from the Vatican and the Holy Table, which are now, thanks to this pope, slightly different than others, we will, we will not discuss it, and we would not want to interfere there. Lately we have witnessed that, and the fact that the two countries that are extremely Catholic, have publicly said that the time has come to initiate a review of relations with the Catholic Church, that is Ireland and that is Spain. The Irish prime minister said it was time for the Church to move away from the centre of society, while his Spanish counterpart announced the termination of the concord of the Spanish Holy See, the removal of religious sciences from public schools, the arrival of state donations to Catholic schools, and the abolition of any funding of Catholic institutions from the budget. That's a fact, the Republic of Croatia is a little on the side and it's going in another direction that we think is completely wrong. Likewise, really as soon as you open that topic, that topic turns into something else and we don't want it and we don't want it, and through this debate, we won't turn it into anything else. The first Vatican Treaty is the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of education and culture, it was signed on 18 December 96. There are a number of things in this Treaty that we appreciate the time has come to reconsider. Likewise, we have and we are called here and we refer ourselves, there is also one European Court of Human Rights ruling that states that the right to freedom of religion includes the right of every individual not to be and to be questioned about their relationship with religion or religion, and that none of his public documents contains information that could reveal his religious conviction or the lack of such conviction. It is evident that, as a consequence of this Treaty, a series of situations have arisen that violate the fundamental constitutional principles of the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, I must say that when we were preparing for this, I was as a parliamentary representative and as president of the GLAS Club, I asked the government how much of the foundation of these Treaties is given out of the budget, so I got one answer, five times I had to supplement the inquiry with clearly defined elements in order to finally get an answer to my question, and it was a little bit less than a billion a year, and that did not include all those donations made by local and regional self-government units because you can get into 556 plus 20, 576 budgets. When it comes to this first Vatican Treaty, then we believe that the time has come to review the guarantees of compulsory teaching of Catholic religious science in all public elementary and secondary schools and preschool institutions. Then the application of the law of the Republic of Croatia which is governed by a special contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Bishop's Conference, of course with prior approval of the Holy See, the provision of money to the Catholic-Godology faculty at the University of Zagreb with regional studies and theology and the provision of money for employees and the work of church institutes for the education of creditors and other pastoral staff. It is something that we appreciate that in the first contract we need to review in view of the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has, given that we also had a recent example and a letter from the Croatian bishops to the principals of primary and secondary schools that we have witnessed that in principle the obligation to go to the religious education of Malta does not, once you enroll a child in a religious teaching, you cannot change your mind. We're a clear attitude and I think it's a religious place in the Church and, of course, the one who wants to go that way, it's absolutely open and it can go. Equally, what we need to know and we know that religious textbooks are printed with taxpayers' money, so all that's related to it is what we do to taxpayers' money. The following contract is a contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia related to legal matters. This Treaty stresses that churches and states are independent and independent but we appreciate that this principle is absolutely contrary to the Constitution because without prior notice of the church authorities, in the case of judicial investigations, of the cleric, because of the possible criminal acts provided for by the Criminal Law, so that means to you in other words if any cleric, against him, will be a judicial investigation, you must first inform and then enter the investigation. We are witnesses of where even some former mayors are, not to mention the mayor, that the investigation was also against the mayor of Zagreb, imagine what it would look like if you first informed the mayor of Zagreb that it would be an investigation against him and then go to investigate. So in this way it is defined absolutely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and one other normative is to one group of people, and let's say in that contract you have a fixation of days in the Republic of Croatia, so when you determine the days of non-working in the Republic of Croatia, then you first have to solve it with the Holy Table. The third contract is a contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on... Catholic believers of members of the OS and regular service of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia regulated the establishment of a military office headed by a bishop who is responsible for all members of the military and police. The contract was signed at a time when OSRs were actively engaged in the defence of Croatia in the Homeland War and numbered 300,000 members. Today's Croatian military and police have a significantly smaller number of members, somewhere below 40,000, and we appreciate that they have really earned conditions, in which there is no reason not to reconsider that contract. And then we have a contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on economic issues. This Economic Affairs Treaty, signed among other things, defines the return issues of the seized property. Unlike other countries which have concluded such or similar contracts with the Holy See, the Republic of Croatia has in no way limited legal, material and other effects when signing the contract. No asset list defined, no deadlines defined, no amounts to be paid in exchange for goods that cannot be returned. In theory, such a contract could create such material and financial obligations and such amounts and durations that it is in principle opposed to the principle and common sense and everything else. The Republic of Croatia is equally obliged to pay the Catholic Church a certain amount of money per month as well as 2 months of average gross wages multiplied by the number of parishes. Of course, the number of parishes, the Church decides on its own. This contract also applies to units of local self-government that are required to contribute financially to the construction and restoration of the church and the place for churches and pastoral facilities in pastoral plans on the bishop's proposal. So when it comes to this contract defining economic issues, we really think that the time has come to discuss the return of property to the Catholic Church, it has been quite enough time in the past 20 years to write down these assets, to determine in a certain way and the value of that property, and to at least set a time limit, unlike the return of some other assets, are defined deadlines. Likewise, I think the time has come to define this provision of an annual amount from the Church's budget and the financing of construction and reconstruction of church buildings. I must admit to myself personally, given mine, I always point out that I am an architect of a spatial planner, is a very interesting one provision that says, that when you're doing a spatial plan, then you have to get the consent of the bishop to plan the location of the Church and in that spatial plan without that consent you can't plan that object no matter where it is, which is very interesting, and we think that it's all together, there's not really any basis. The data I was able to obtain, asking government-related data, were as follows, that 300 million kuna per year were given to creditors in public primary and secondary schools, data on how much was spent on teaching Catholic religious sciences from preschools, 58 million per year for Catholic primary and secondary schools, 60 million for Catholic high schools, schools and colleges, and 48 million per year for the protection of sacral objects. Then, 335 million a year is given for, on the basis of the contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia concerning economic issues and 10 million a year on average for the needs of the military office. What I have to emphasize, in particular, is, therefore, all the other units of local or regional self-government through their donations, that's the data we don't have, and that we don't know. '98. The share of GDP in the Republic of Croatia was 27%, therefore, an absolutely different situation than today, and we appreciate that there are two basics. One basic is the economic situation that was different 20 years ago and today, and what I have already cited and mentioned, and that was then about 300,000 people in uniform, '96, the Homeland War, is now about 40,000. A little, you're going to compare and compare well with countries, which are from the environment, and what about other European Union countries, which are now still 28. For the Church, more than Croatia stands out only Hungary. I know that someone is experiencing Orban as a role model as we should be, in GLAS, the GLAS Club and HSU, we have a clear view that by the way Orban goes, we do not see the way of Croatia, that one, the strengthening of populism is not the future of the Republic of Croatia, we want to really build, build as one of the members of the European Union, and we think that citizens of the Republic of Croatia all their interests, not only in the Republic of Croatia, they can satisfy their interests and as citizens of Europe, not to say as well as citizens of the world. A little look at the models that some other countries have, so let's say, we have a German model, the church tax is the one for which the believers are declared, or we have Italian and Spanish, which says that 0.8 and 0.52% of income taxes are allocated to the Church or humanitarian organisations, or we have French or Dutch that says voluntary funding. A lot more water will flow under the Sava Bridge before we decide on some model of voluntary funding. But for some other model that would be quite acceptable, that model would absolutely be to decide on a certain percentage of citizens' income, which will then decide whether they want to go to church or want to go to someone else. If we took the Italian model, which I stated, then the separation for the Catholic Church on different grounds would not be at the level of a year billion, but would be according to the calculations that we made 576 million kunas. So that's still one serious number. We really think it's good that in this House no matter what time it is, and here is the 4th afternoon is not yet such a bad time, although it is afternoon, to discuss the need for revision of the Vatican Treaties. I repeat, and I will repeat until when it is necessary, this is not a question of religion, this is not a question of a relationship to a particular religion or to a particular church, it is four contracts that have been concluded by the two countries, and it clearly stands in those contracts when conditions are acquired that one of the signatories of these contracts can decide and run a review, another signator, if he does not want to, but now that they are blowing one different winds from the Vatican, when we have the Pope who clearly talks about a series of topics that were taboo topics, we appreciate that the time has come for a healthy, healthy, healthy head, unhindered and not on the wave of certain choices, to the electoral body, by entering into another electoral body, has come to sit down, that these contracts are read, very simple. The first time I went, I took, I went to the website, they're very simple, they're very clear, but let's include the really criteria to see the way they're written. They talk all the time about the obligation of a country, it is the Republic of Croatia, very little about the obligations of the Holy See. The result and signed these contracts is also a series of contracts signed with the Croatian Bishop's Conference, for that we don't need 2/3, for that we need a goodwill, for that we need a goodwill to tell my people, contracts that are over 20 years old, we have other conditions, another story, let's sit down and discuss what we are going on and how we go on. Action always causes you to react. If you are very rigid and very hard in certain attitudes and if you have no idea of talking at all and you are buried in place, on the other hand you will get a much stronger reaction. Just look at the number of marriages in the church, that it is smaller every year, than it was before, it's much simpler to make a marriage today, when I was doing it, it was different and just ask yourself why. Ask yourself why parents are enrolling less and less children in religious studies. So, these are a series of things to be asked, and I'm sure that through this debate and definition, but about the Treaties, first and foremost, we should discuss and look at the economic aspect of these Treaties and ask whether we all have the courage to say together, the situation in the Republic of Croatia is different, than it was in 96 and 98, let's open up the revision of the Vatican Treaties and see what the problem has given us in general, whether we still want the bishop to determine, not the spatial planner, but who determines where the Church will be, not in cooperation, so cooperation is always welcome, with all of us talking, whether we, the way of defining the unworked days, therefore, the most banal things, here you have the banal things, and you have things that aren't exactly like that. Do our fellow citizens feel good? Imagine that you're the boss of someone you should inform if he's being questioned, and when it comes to a priest, you should inform his boss first, and then on. How do other citizens of the Republic of Croatia feel? In conclusion, in the Rules of Procedure of which I have a lot to say, this Rules of Procedure has brought something good. Had it not been for such a Rules of Procedure, if colleagues from HDZ and the SDP had not been able to agree on it, this debate would never have been in this House. Thanks to that, it's good to argue, I never have a problem, nor do we in GLAS have a problem having different, different, different thoughts, and that's what we think is good. What would a country in which we all think the same thing look like? So we'd all be dressed the same, we'd all look the same, it's good to think differently, but don't discuss the Vatican Treaties in a discussion about counting blood cells, about how big, smaller, religious or Croats are, aren't they, like, Vatican contracts. Vatican contracts are something else, and when it comes to and if you count mine, then I would be 100% good at all criteria, but don't turn it into that, this is a debate about economic elements and besides, it's a debate on something else, there are some other countries that, which have entered into Vatican contracts different than the Republic of Croatia. On several occasions you could see when there was another pope and some other things that everyone said, so look how the Holy See said how the Republic of Croatia has Vatican contracts, that's something great. In doing so, Italy went to review the Vatican Treaties, from that revision of the Vatican Treaties, there were some better things that were connected to the state. So it's not that either, we wouldn't be the first, or the last, to do it. But, to conclude, if the two countries, both Ireland and Spain are ready to make it clear that the time has come to review relations with the Catholic Church, I see no reason why it is so clear that it is not ready to say the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127114	Thank you, too, for your exposure. We have 18 replicas. The first replica of counterpart Miranda Mrsic, followed by his colleague Zekanovic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127115	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritash, you said you needed good will, and in the first row of HDZ, but certainly that you are not well-willed because it is clear that HDZ fears the condemnation of the Catholic Church in the Republic and those convictions would be placed from the altar, and that is not quite appropriate for them at this time, given that we are going to the elections. New winds are blowing from the Vatican, and obviously it should be used, but the HDZ probably doesn't have any sense of it, no desire, and what it would say at the other Vatican Council, the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See needs a plant or an ajornament because it's obvious that some things can be done better. If that will be enough, sufficient revision of existing Treaties or need new contracts, it will be known when Start, but I think [[Intruder: Thank you]] that it's time to take [[Intruder: you]] He's going into review. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127116	Thank you, I won't allow too much out of time, there's a lot of applications. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127117	Thank you very much. I'm really going to try in my replicas to say what I need to say, say it in a minute. Comrade Mrsic, I fully agree with you. You have to recognize the moment when it came for something, sometimes when you're past your moment, you missed it, now the Vatican is really blowing some other wind. I've been trying very closely to explain what's going on here, and it's taxing that there are things that bother us, and we appreciate that this is a moment that can be exploited. But unfortunately, we live in an environment where we live, we don't live in some ideal conditions, we realize that there's always some choices and that there's always the problem of going to someone to blame, or it's always the desire to always be better, to be stronger, to be louder. Just because someone is louder doesn't mean that in their views it's stronger, therefore, we really appreciate that the time has come for review.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127118	Next is counterpart Zekanovic, followed by counterpart Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127119	Dear colleagues, the International Treaty is an agreement between two or more international law entities, and then in Croatian legislation we recognise the pact, act, agreement, memorandum, charter, convention. Then, as we talk about international contracts, we may mention some other Istanbul Convention that also costs Croatia the state we heard from Mrs. Shuice from the HDZ billion kuna, and we do not know how much it will cost us. Let's mention maybe our contract with the NATO Pact, mention an international agreement with the EU, so let's talk about everything, but here I have to realize that there's little time to make me laugh about Pope Francis and Mrsic, too, about some new winds from the Vatican, about Papi Francis, who's a different Pope, don't talk about things you don't have a clue about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127120	Here's a reply to the replica, fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127121	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I always have a particularly cheerful replica of Mr. Zekanovic, and I'm especially pleased when we go on some kind of show he and I, we go in and out of there with all our views, and he hesitates for a second at me, and I will not hesitate for a second on him. I have to say that I've been walking around this world for a long time, that I've been educated for different things, that there's no need to touch, and at least I need to tell someone how much he knows or doesn't know. And I could talk a lot about the Catholic Church and something else, but I don't think this is a topic, this is really what you said in your presentation, this is about four contracts. And the attitude we have in the Istanbul Convention and in the Marrakesh Agreement and how much they will cost, we can have a glass ball and return, but how much do we know?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127122	Next is counterpart Babic, followed by fellow Sokol. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127123	Thank you very much, dear colleague Taritash. You said in your introduction that it would not count blood cells, so you start with it, I don't think I'm talking about it, so you said yourself, we're a left-wing liberal party, and I understand that, but with increased animosity towards religious communities, and then to strengthen that animosity, you answer the truth and you say that you got a response from the government of the Republic of Croatia, in which it stands for 3 years, '14, '15. And '16. For all religious communities, a billion and 123 million kuna funds have been spent. Another thing when you said about international contracts is that Croatia is bound, and the other side is not. So imagine that this other side just called for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the article, Article 3 concerning the inalienability of ownership so that we had to return all the property and their compensation, I think such a Croatian state would go bankrupt. After all, you were with Racan, you were with Milanovic, you had an opportunity and you haven't changed Not even for a point that one contract. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127124	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127125	Thank you very much, so when you read the contracts then we obviously read them a little differently. When it comes to the return of property anywhere in the contract, it does not say that we may not have to return in one current asset, but after 20 years it is time to know what is the value, which are the deadlines, which are the burdens for the state budget, only in this sense can we redefine, redefine the contract and define it in a way that we have defined for all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Nowhere in the contract is written or not, we'll have to, but to know what, how and under what conditions, that's all we want through the revision of these contracts and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127126	Thank you, next is colleague Sokol, after he's a colleague of Lipovscack's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127127	Thank you very much, colleague Mrak-Taritash, here are 3 things, first of all means the number you said absolutely incorrect, that's what my colleague Babic already said, if you add to that figure of some 350 million kuna a year, let's say items such as maintaining a monument of culture, and these are churches then you can get the amount. But these monuments are available to everyone and they're something in the public interest I really don't think anyone's troubled that the church should invest in their maintenance. Secondly, as far as your initiative itself is concerned, I would only point out that 19 religious communities in the Republic of Croatia have concluded contracts and enjoyed similar rights modeled at the Catholic Church. So if you want everyone to be equal in front of the Constitution and the law, then you should suggest all these rights that result. And the third time you mentioned other contracts, Italy signed a 929 contract, and revised it in '83. So 35 years ago, and Spain put it together in '53. and has not yet entered any revisions, whether or not they will be or will not be any announcements. The current left government, we'll see what happens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127128	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127129	Thank you very much, colleague Sokol of yours, I realized that there were no conditions, that maybe another 20 years after 40 or 50 years was some kind of deadline to get the conditions. Five times I had to supplement, or four times, my inquiry that went to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and would always get a clearly defined answer, all of those 4.5 answers, I think they are publicly available and can read exactly what I said, but what you may have heard, so there is no idea and we haven't said anything at any time, so there must always be something, but we appreciate that after 20 years Croatia is '96. She was in a completely different state than she was in 2019, and I'm sure you can agree with that. Is it necessary, do we have to slave and say, after 30 or 40 years of the concluded time has come, I don't think we appreciate it coming It's time to review. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127130	Next is a colleague of Lipovsčak, followed by counterpart Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127131	I thank you, so Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, although in your opening statement, you actually said that it would not be against the church and religion, in fact, exactly the way you question the sending of the Catholic Church to Croatia in this proposal legally, I think it is at least incorrect not to use a more difficult word. Let us remind ourselves that it was the Catholic Church that preserved Croatia's national consciousness in all those centuries when we didn't have our own state, and when certain groups from the fifth vessels tried not to have it, that we weren't talking about the caritative role of the Catholic Church in all those crises, world wars and similar situations, about the many schools and institutions behind which the Catholic Church stood and which brought out numerous dignitaries, scientists in our homeland. I will repeat the Catholic worm has been fulfilling for centuries and I think it will continue to fulfill its mission in both the world and Croatia, not only in religious but also in the broad social spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127132	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127133	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Lipoščak. We don't mind opening up a debate on the role and importance of the Catholic Church in Croatian society throughout history, that what it means about education, which means its caritative role, so it's absolutely topics that we can discuss, we can agree here in some things, in some things to think about, but in these topics we talk about spending the state budget. The beginning and the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127134	Thank you. The next is counterpart Reiner, followed by counterpart Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127135	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash. With a whole series of inaccuracies that you've made, and that's in the conclusion proposal that's been made, I would now look back on just one thing. All four proposed Conclusions, starting with the words, are in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in order to establish such an obligation in accordance with Article 165 of each of our Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to establish an assessment of the situation in each area. On four-and-a-half pages, only four-and-a-half pages, the clocks you have given in terms of the reasons for your proposals for conclusions are not mentioned at all in terms of words or assessments, nor in terms of the situation in the area of any of the four international agreements whose amendment is required. Clearly, then, there are no assumptions that we are discussing, let alone the conclusion in accordance with Article 165.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127136	Thank you. Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127137	Dear Vice President. I have to turn it off so I can, I can yell, but there's no need, you can hear me enough like this. So, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President Reiner. I hardly use the word you've been saying, and you've told a lie, and a four-page article. What do you think the debate would be if we had made a 16-page article, and we had a previous agenda point where we all agreed that the quantity and quality didn't have to be the same. We had done before these Vatican Treaties, before this, the debate we came to the Parliament, there were several round tables that we went to and where people who thought differently in some things, and in some things thought the same thing, and this article was the result of it, but there is one fact that we can't all escape, EUROSTAT said that only to the Republic of Croatia more separates Hungary, and in the Republic of Croatia stands out 6x more than the average of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127138	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Klisovic's. After him, my colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127139	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, you have made it very clear, several times in your statement that today's debate is not about religion, is not a debate about Christianity or the Catholic Church, but from the replicas of our colleagues on the right hand side of the Assembly, it is clear that they are experiencing a debate as an attack on the Catholic Church and as if they are representatives to speak to the Church today in the Assembly. It is clear once again that this debate is actually the introduction of order into state finances, so all the users of the budget money must be transparent, they must submit a report, the review must have the opportunity to enter and see if it is spent properly. All, Croatia needs to be defined more clearly what financial obligations it has towards the Catholic Church in terms of the return of property or those goods that cannot be returned, how it will be compensated. I can't have things unscheduled to the level that are currently in the contracts, that all that is open-ended what would be said, nor do you have a list of assets, nor... in which to return, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127140	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127141	A colleague of Klisovic's, just like that. So, to be able at all to this part of the Treaty that is related to the economy, anything to run, anything to do, and after 20 years I think that we finally have the data of how much property, which of this property has been taken into consideration for the purpose, which of these assets is not for the purpose, we already have some rulings of the Constitutional, European courts related to the way in which the property, the Catholic Church uses the property, so let's say, otherwise there are, all associations have an obligation to advertise their own, their own financial results or how they spend, all those who are on budget money, as far as I know, the Dubrovnik Archbishop publicly publishes his data on spending budget money, others. Imagine that the result of this debate is that all Archbishops or bishops have publicly available, we can see how they spend budget money.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127142	Thank you. Next up is my colleague Ljubic. After him, a colleague named Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127143	Thank you. The proposer's representative argues as the basis for reviewing the Vatican Treaties, changes in circumstances relative to the time when they are signed, which of course does not stand. Nit has changed social circumstances, and today as well as then over 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia declare themselves to the Catholics, the political will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia has not changed, because in the previous elections, they have shown a great majority of their trust to the parties of the democratic implementation and not all of the parliamentary majority are even. So, it hasn't changed even the economic situation worse, I'm sure it's changed for the better, of course it hasn't changed the ratio of strength in this House compared to that time, and it hasn't changed the ratio of the Vatican as much as I know, compared to these contracts, because the Vatican in no way really gives a sign that it would go in revising these agreements,... There is therefore no basis to open this debate on these negotiations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127144	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127145	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Ljubic, you have tried very closely to tell me that there are no circumstances in Croatia since '96 or when the first three contracts were, or since '98. apply in order to obtain conditions for the revision of the Vatican Treaties. Some of these distinguished colleagues said they needed more, little to wait for, so they'd get the conditions. Well, we just think that the conditions have been met, and we think it's a good time, that when it comes to spending the budget money that the conditions have been met and we don't see any reason not to go into it. I have said it several times in this presentation and clearly, we can even, we could even agree, we can even Parliament make a decision, they will not be launched unless they decide on the other side of the Holy See, but let's try, and let's make life easier for our citizens because their lives are much easier from that point of view in other EU member states, I deliberately refer them to them now, but in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127146	Thank you. Next is counterpart Bacic, followed by fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Mrak Taritas, you were a member and Minister of the Government of the Left Centre or Left, however much you prefer and the Government made it clear that it would not go into review of the Vatican Treaties, so as not to harm relations with the Holy Table. What are you doing now, ma'am? Dark Taritash changed that now that you're an opposition representative you're proposing a revision of the Vatican Treaty? If your excuse, as you yourself have stated, is the new winds blowing from Rome, I assume you mean Pope Francis's choice, I would remind you that, if Pope Francis had become Pope and followed your mandate for three years. So, these new winds that you'd alludate to have followed your mandate as ministers for three years, so you didn't go to an amendment to the Treaty and another thing, for me, this is a left-wing fight on the left-wing political spectrum to take over, being a spokeswoman. those players who [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]] do not support [[Agreement: colleague Bačić]] These contracts with the Holy Table. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127148	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127149	Comrade Bačić, you and I both know very well that political points are hard to collect on this subject and about what is a left-handed fight or not, it will prove. And you and I know very well that I personally entered this House twice with... places and if it hadn't been for the preferential vote, I would have seen this House only from the outside, and not from, inactively participating, but let's put it aside. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] For everyone in your life, you need courage, you lacked courage back then. We have courage and will have in the future to open up topics that everyone would hate to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127150	Thank you. The following is counterpart Misic, after counterpart Misic, co-worker Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127151	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues Taritash, in your presentation and the Treaties between the Vatican and the Republic of Croatia, you didn't mention anything that would go wrong, if you said, this is wrong, this isn't right, you mentioned, of course, schools, religions, you mentioned the Church in the military and everything else the Church contributes. In the end, we need to know that all religions in the Republic of Croatia are supported from the budget. Therefore, and this part that the Republic of Croatia gives to the Catholic Church and the Vatican, I think it's okay that through all the things the Church does and the Caritas himself that behaves, so much money is spent, that no other institution has done it in the Republic of Croatia, and even in the world. The other thing, you mention the pope who verticalized honesty in this world, whom we respect and who we stand behind and think It's working... [[Intruder: Thank you]] who are for the world and for all people [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] this globe of the Earth. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127152	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127153	Thank you very much. Comrade Misic, surely none of us here are invited to evaluate the work of the Holy Father, so neither you nor I nor anyone else. But we're all gonna have to answer at some point, go to a certain choice, or somebody's gonna say, "I'm going home, I've had enough, so I won't." But if you decide to re-enter the campaign eventually, you too will have to explain to the voters why six times more is allocated to the Church for the Republic of Croatia than in other EU countries... like other EU countries. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Likewise, I have made it clear that I do not think that the future of the Republic of Croatia is in association with Orban and the way Orban runs Hungary. I think the future of the Republic of Croatia is in association with some other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127154	Thank you. The next one is counterpart Alfirev, after fellow Alfirev, a colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127155	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, well, I would really be interested if in a different way, therefore, if the churches were funded, what kind of relationship would really be in the Republic and how many then we would have declared believers of any faith, and that might be one real indicator. What concerns me the most here is still the fact that there are those, indeed, religious sciences at school, there are those parents whose children go to religious school, although it may be contrary to their beliefs, although it may be contrary to what they stand for, but simply because the school has no alternative solution, are somehow forced, so that children do not feel isolated, discriminated against, or in any other way bad at that... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127156	Answer, there you are, Comrade Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127157	Thank you very much for your question. Comrade Alfirev, when it comes to religious science, it really is one topic that we could talk a lot about about children who don't go to religious school, so they don't know where they're going to be at that time. Until something that, let's say, is defined if you have seven children of some other religion, then their religious teachings are organized for them. And so there was one school, so I can only convince from the other hand, I heard it on a few round tables, where there were children of Muslim religion, for they were organized by a religious teacher because it had to be done by the director, but the principal organized some last hours on Friday and from the stairs of his school said, about very well, little green going to religious school, here, on Friday, when everyone else went home, which really speaks in favor of having to learn at the religious school and raise children. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127158	Thank you. The next colleague is Glasovac, followed by her colleague Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, I personally have nothing against the Church and I am a believer myself, I have all the sacraments, but I have much against having a state in the state. First of all, I mean the state's inability to influence the behaviour of the Church, especially in public institutions, because how else do you explain situations in Croatian schools where religious science is conducted as an electoral object, but those children who don't choose it in primary school have no choice but to sit on the stairs and be left alone in the yard. How else do you explain the fact that a teacher or teacher would advance in calling a mentor or counselor, it takes six years of experience for a mentor, 11 for a counselor, and if you're a believer, then it takes 2 years for a mentor, 3 years for a counselor. The state has no authority over the content of textbooks, the Agency for Education, has no authority over the advancement of teachers and teachers, all of this has a Church, and against it is me. I did for the believers to have the right to live in harmony with their faith, but this is really insane.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127160	Thank you. Answer. Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127161	Thank you very much, colleague Voter. Of course, you have set a series of examples that you know from your experience and your work. I might use this replica in the exhibit, you know, when you're getting ready, then you still miss some things and you don't say. Let's just say, someone explain to me why the editor of the religious programme at HRT must be confirmed by the Croatian Bishop's Conference? It's as if your country's editor, for that very long-standing show and it's one of the longest-lived, must be the Minister of Agriculture. Well, then if the Minister of Agriculture is going to do that, and the culture shows, the culture minister, and then this makes sense. I don't even see why that's the point and why it has to be in the contract, it seems to me that it really shouldn't be that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127162	The next one's a colleague of Tudjman's. After fellow Tudjman, colleague Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, in the light of this request to launch these changes, these contracts, you have listed a series of inaccuracies. Among other things, you said that at the time of the signing of the agreement for the military office, there were 300,000 members of the armed forces, which was simply incorrect because it was '96 when the Group of Armed Forces was about the same as it was today. On the other hand, you cited as a problem maintaining the teaching of religious sciences that it is against the constitution because it cannot be asked people who are faith or who are belongings, and then it is not, it would only be anti-constitutional in Croatia, and not in other members of the European Union. The same applies to the place of teaching, you say it must be in religious facilities, not in civilian facilities, which is not a problem in other countries. In order to be credible, this is what you should have asked, not only these four contracts, but those eight for other religious communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127164	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127165	Thank you very much, Reverend Tudjman. Both you and I know well what processes Croatia was in in '96, that there was still peaceful integration and that indeed so many were under arms, not uniforms. Only for, only 2008, for NATO's purposes has this figure been reduced to 16,000, so I, absolutely, have the opportunity to prove it differently, but what's a fact, the facts are very different today. You can't convince me, and no one can convince me with any argument that what was in '96 and '98 and 2019, is no different country, we live differently, the conditions are different and there are absolutely different circumstances than they were back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127166	Thank you. Next up's a fellow Stier. After him, my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127167	Thank you. My colleague, do you know what Scola Socurentes is? So it's a program that promotes Pope Francis in Argentina and is highly criticised by the left liberal circles, because among other things he requires greater participation, greater presence of the Church and public schools. So, you have the right to propose your proposal, but you need to base it on facts, not on some false weather forecasts about how the Vatican winds blow. So, we need to talk to you in an argument. And by the way, I'm telling you this for the sake of this debate, and I say it as a sinner, unlike you and other colleagues from this left part of the House, who boast that you are good Catholics, but I define myself as a sinner. And as such, I would like to suggest that you consider this question as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127168	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127169	Thank you very much. Following your debate, it may be the right time to register in 2021, for example, a Christian category, so that those who feel that way can also be entered, but that is one completely different topic. I am sure that you, like me, know well when it comes to Pope Francis, and I purposely spoke of new winds that are from the Vatican, which you know well, and I, so we did not expect them, we are aware that Pope Francis is not a liberal, but Pope Francis stands for the poor, for goodness, for humanity, for hope, for joy. By leaving these Vatican contracts and not teasing them, in general, without having the will to question them, somehow those people who leave Croatia in search of a better life, try to explain what he is up to, and these contracts are not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127170	Thank you. The next is counterpart Mikulić, followed by colleague Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127171	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague of Mrak-Taritash. This proposal of yours does not apply only to the Catholic Church and the Vatican Treaties, because we must not ignore the fact that these contracts were the foundation of other religious communities, which was formally done in 19 of them. Problem... You have problemed the fact that the number of payments the state pays to the Catholic Church is based on the number of parishes that the Church ultimately decides on on its own, but by this very contract, it is prescribed that the number of parishes will not be taken by newly founded parishes that count less than 3,000 believers for cities and 1,000 believers in the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just this way, the manipulation and creation of a large number of parishes has been disabled to increase the financial impact you've been talking about, which is also another of the many false things you've said about that speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127172	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127173	Thank you very much. Offered by this debate, I'll start talking when I get some kind of replica or some option for someone to tell the truth. Of this amount we're talking about, 96% goes to the Catholic Church, and the rest goes to others. Likewise, the Vatican Treaties are this way bound between the Holy Table, just to say between the Holy Chair and the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to others, they're different, for example. The content in the textbooks for religious science is exclusively the right to prescribe the Catholic Church, but for other communities it is not so, so you should read everything, not just read the part, but read everything. We should read them, see what they say, see the answers that were on the web pages and see our conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127174	The next colleague, Vuksanovic, and then the last replica is counterpart Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127175	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Mrak Taritaš, the left liberal options by definition should not be to reduce acquired and the law of certified rights, no religious organisations, no individuals, no minorities, and when the left liberal option had power, this topic did not even come into debate, as we heard, in the Parliament. True, it's international contracts, but let's also not wrongly claim that this isn't an ideological or a secular issue. You see, I just think that this is a purely ideological and world-wide issue, which is more of a pre-election time and I haven't heard anything from your presentation that would have me, except for some benefit in cash, which would have convinced me in some way, even if there was some piece of benefit analysis, the results would have shown significantly greater damage to the Republic. of this cash use. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127176	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127177	Thank you very much. So it's not a world-wide question to us at all, and that's where I made it clear and made a clear reference. I wonder, do you really think that the Republic of Croatia can afford the luxury of detaching 6 times as much as the average of other EU countries? If it was a model, and I said that, we've seen some other models and calculated how much it is. So, according to some other models, it's a month on or sorry, 576 million a year, but there's a big part here that we can't even get to the data, how many individual units of local self-government or regional self-government are isolated? Just remember the donations, for example, that the City of Zagreb gives, so before any election, the mayor of the garden around a particular church gives 920.000,00 kn, gives something else somewhere If we were to add it all together [[Intruder: Thank you]] They'd come up with a real number. [[Intruder: Comrades, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127178	Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've listened to these beautiful wishes of my colleague Dark Taritash, it all sounds very nice, but unfortunately, it's unfundable. You're presenting some information that absolutely doesn't stand. Next time, my proposal for the right thing, order a study, do the right science thing, professor, people who deal with it, don't throw away the data, people misinformation. You're talking about Spain, Germany, you're talking about wrong. In Spain, this fight between the state and the Vatican and the church. In Germany, church tax and state salaries are paid and there are donations and there are indirect funding, so don't speak up. This turns out to be some kind of, as the Germans and the Austro-Ugari, the schnappside, have some brandy, so there's some idea, it's bad and it all reminds us of the cult of that blood... culture in the European Parliament's election, unserious and irresponsible, don't do it, you'll lose the election that way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127180	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127181	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, don't worry about us. Don't worry about us, so we're ready for the election, we're ready to get our kidneys in those elections, we're ready even to, thanks to that great kindness of HDZ that one party splits up in half, so half of us go to you along with all the resources that were, those others who remain faithful to their voters, stay at zero, we're all ready for that, but we're ready when we go with the proposal, we're behind the proposal, we analyzed the proposal, with all the data we absolutely have support in the analysis that is. We're ready to defend it and we're ready to say why we're going. Our victory is at this point already that the revision of the Vatican Treaties is, or the possibility of entering the Vatican Treaty review, talking in the Parliament, so we're humble, so it's already our victory to talk here. , not the halls. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127182	Time. We're done with the replicas. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? My colleague Kovac, the president? Here you go. Comrade Kovac, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, the Committee on Foreign Policy has conducted as a parent body, a debate and decided not to support the conclusion on the opening of the procedure for negotiations on amendments, contracts and the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127184	Thank you. Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, here you go. Andreja Metelko Zgombic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127185	Thank you, dear Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me to brief you on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal for a conclusion on the opening of the procedure for amending the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, whose applicants are representatives of the GLAS and HSU club in HS. The government has formally written about this in a rather extensive opinion on over 7 pages, in which it clearly expressed its position and made arguments concerning each of the 4 signed contracts for which the proposer proposes to initiate the amendment procedure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Treaty and in its opinion clearly expresses the reasons for this. Namely, the contract itself, each contract with the Holy Table contains one special clause that states that in the event of a change, important changes in circumstances will begin negotiations on its amendment. It is an international legal standard, so it is clear that this means that circumstances have changed significantly to activate, activate those provisions. The change of circumstances means that there have been such significant changes in circumstances that did not exist at the time of the conclusion of the contract and could not have been predicted to arise after its conclusion. In particular, it is stated in Vienna that the Convention on the Law of International Contracts is that these are circumstances which, if they existed at the time of the conclusion, would be an obstacle and would not lead to the conclusion of the Agreement at all, or that these are circumstances which rootly lead to a change in the reach of the agreements itself. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that these assumptions have not been fulfilled, and that is why we believe that there is that prevailing principle of international law, if such circumstances have not occurred then we have just the obligation on our part to respect the other sacred contractual principle, the principle and that is the Pacta sunt servanda, the contracts should be respected and fulfilled in good faith. The government also believes that any attempt to amend such contracts should be truly exceptional if the circumstances that we consider to have not been obtained and that formal and politically sound reasons have to be met which, the assessment of the Government does not exist. Because the launch of such changes, and if we didn't have such a basis, could really cause the political, diplomatic effects of the unwanted and the debate in this assembly, and the position of the Government, there is no such will on our part. The same should be said that these contracts are not only interstate, but they are concluded between the state and the Catholic Church, the Holy See as well as the Pope who is at the head of the Catholic Church and that they have a special social value and they have a more comprehensive influence than ordinary other international contracts. Such contracts have been concluded with 80 other countries, of course they differ slightly in their content, but what I would say to everyone in common, especially when we talk about the relationship between the Catholic Church and other Member States, we can see that there are certain values of religious freedom, the recognition of collective rights, the right to learn from schools, public institutions, certain significant funding of the Catholic Church from the state in all Member States, so I would say in particular that we have heard examples and Germany, and I would also say that France is proud of promoting the principle of secularity, however, in France and that it provides religious and religious education in public schools and there is a generous financial support to the Catholic Church. What is special, I would also say is also important that these contracts were also an inspiration for the Republic of Croatia to enter into contractual relations with other religious communities in the Republic of Croatia. Eight contracts with 19 religious communities were concluded, and they would, I would say, represent something that our society, the Croatian Parliament, I would say and the government should be particularly proud, because they talk about the breadth of religious freedoms and pluralism in our society which, I would say, is just to praise. When it comes to religious science itself, perhaps just a few words, that education and education in pre-school and school institutions in the Republic of Croatia takes place in accordance with Croatian laws and on the basis of curricula of pre-school or school institutions, and that the right to religion in public schools does not only belong to the Catholic Church on the basis of these contracts, but is an integral part of Croatian legislation and which allows other religious communities to use it, that right. It is not mandatory, based on a written statement to the director at preschool age, in school so parents must make a clear statement of the will for a child to attend a religious course it is an electoral subject and only once the will and willingness of the child to attend it enters a mandatory, compulsory school programme. It may also change your mind, therefore, that a child or a parent may at any time change his decision. That's what our society is worth, and I don't think it should be changed. Perhaps only briefly when it comes to spending budget money, I think there are no large strangers, namely the position of the Catholic Church in Croatia when it comes to financial resources I have, it is arranged on two basic foundations. One is when it comes to the denationalisation process, that is, the characteristics of Croatia and other countries of former Eastern Europe, where, through the nationalisation of the communist regime, property and individuals, legal persons and so on to the Catholic Church, and just as our law, our property compensation law during the Yugoslav communist rule has clearly determined the way, the conditions under which legal persons can be returned, and then if this is not the return of real estate, and if this is not possible, an alternative way and compensation is determined. And when it comes to the Catholic Church of those properties that could not return, they are reimbursed, paid on the basis of the powerful solutions of the Office of State Administration in the Countys and City of Zagreb. So all is legally justified, the internal procedure has passed in accordance with Croatian law. And when it comes to the second degree of funding of the Catholic Church, when we talk about the activities of the Catholic Church which it is taking in promoting the general good, in the cult, educational, social, ethical field, so it is an area which also other religious communities can receive and receive financial support, and perhaps I will just say so, that when it comes to the financial resources that the state in the state budget gives, we mentioned, we heard here two average gross wages multiplied by the number of parishes, it is also clear that this mechanism is linked to the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and that it necessarily follows the general state of affairs. All the money remains in the Republic of Croatia, it is spent there, perhaps it is not bad to mention that in the years of recession that are behind us, that then the Catholic Church accepted and gave up some of the funds that it was entitled to. In conclusion, I would say that contracts with the Holy Table do not in any way violate equality before the law, nor distorts the principle of freedom of religion, although it is promoted, and all through that generally accepted prism of separation of the church from the state. The following is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to support the proposal to launch negotiations on amendments to the Treaty with the Holy See. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127186	On your show we have 8 replicas, the first colleague of Škibol, followed by his colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127187	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, can you tell me one logical reason, the relevant reason why the State Audit would not enter the religious communities. So give me an explanation, that's the money of all Croatian citizens, they have the right to know what that money is spent in. So this is how it's non-transparent, whether it's a religious community, whether it's a CNB or any other institution. Give me one logical reason, but do not tell me that it is so prescribed by the State Audit Act because it can be very simple to change, give me some reasonable, logical reason and responsible to Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127188	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127189	So, the Catholic Church as a legal person, the obligations are arranged as you yourself have said to the Audit Act, but it is equally stated that for, that the Catholic Church for gains and receipts from the budget contributes to the report or demonstrates a way of spending. So, when he gets money from the state budget then the Catholic Church attaches and presents, he reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127190	The next replica of counterpart Babic, followed by fellow Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127191	Thank you, esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary, and when you spoke about an interstate contract, you should actually talk about the history of the creation of the contract, so while there was a war, the creation of a Croatian state did not memorize the church to discuss the return of its property and that it was only '95. In fact, talks were held between the HBK on the one hand by their commission and on the other hand by the state commission in order to actually achieve the best solution and not to abuse the property of economic and other entities as well as land. If you were talking about land or other things, say the church could block the town of Split, Dubrovnik could block the city of Dubrovnik, Zagreb, Novi Zagreb, Saints, so all this was done on church land. So the church didn't think to act that way because of the people and the state. On the other hand, it should also be said when Milanovic was in power, he didn't want to pay any lip off because of these contracts. that the government that inherited it [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I could do it so there wouldn't be a lawsuit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127192	Next is counterpart Sokol, after fellow Sokol, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127193	Thank you very much, so here's Madam Secretary of State you mentioned religious science in schools, I mean purely for the public who is following this, so the question of religion in schools in Europe is not at all controversial, in all two countries across Europe you don't have some form of religion in schools. So in the vast majority you have a religious science where it's more than 2/3 while in others there's a religious culture. So nowhere is this practically a problem the way it is problemed in Croatia. I come from these hypocritical stories on the left side of the assembly, that they are not problematic religious beliefs, etc. I think the fact that we see a culture of camp, a left-hand struggle for the soul and heart of future generations, which is evident from their election results that are clearly tormenting them, and that's why they're so far past education, but as in many other situations, I believe that neither this will work, nor will this abuse of the assembly to that end have any effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127194	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Zekanovic, followed by his colleague, Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127195	Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, here I was listening to the secretary of state, so I must say that this law that you have proposed is actually most appropriate to the HDZ. They now defend the Catholic Church, they turn out to be Christian Democrats, right? And when it was the Istanbul Convention, well, they weren't Christian Democrats. When there is an abortion law, there will be no Christian Democrats, then together with you liberals, they will vote together a law that the Catholic Church does not propagate. And now I'm asking my colleagues HDZ what they think is more important for the salvation of the soul, are you Christians, that the church has money or maybe to pass laws according to conscience and what the church is propagating, and the bishops were loud and about abortion, and you'll get that law soon, and they were also about the Istanbul Convention and now you want to deceive the Croatian public, clergy, Claire and now you're defending the money, and you're not defending what the church is propagating, happy news. I think this is colleague Dark Taritash. If you had made a mistake... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127196	Next replica, colleague of the Voice, come in. Please. Injury of my colleague Kovac's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Zekanovic is speaking to Mrs. Zakanovic. Dark Taritash, not the secretary of state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127198	Okay, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, now colleague Zekanovic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127199	So I also spoke to the secretary of state, and I think the secretary of state who also heard me as a member of the HDZ. So, I was very clear. [[I said...]] Be credible even when the Catholic Church says it's against abortion [[I said you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure.]] Bring the law, don't let the law be passed against Catholic science. [[Employee: Do not abuse, colleague Zekanovic, do not abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure]] So it's more important for the church to be poor even though I'm in the Vatican Contracts...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127200	That we understand each other [[Aggression: A colleague]] [[Agreement: colleague, colleague, colleague, I'm warning you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127201	...but the laws that are against man are passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127202	Warning one. We're moving on, colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127203	Dear Secretary of State, here you have said that France is a fine example of religious science in schools, it is simply not true, if by any means familiar with this France, with Slovenia and I think Bulgaria, is a country that has no religious education in schools, has two provinces of Alsace and Lorena, it seems to me or three. Secondly, you say, the teaching of schools is regulated by state laws, yes, but through contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, so you have a case where teachers and teachers hire school committees in schools, and creditors are directly elected by the Church, so you have an example that the promotion of teachers and teachers is followed by the Education and Education Agency under certain conditions, here all of them sort of regulate catehetic offices. Believers move much faster, almost twice as fast, under less conditions than they do with other employees. If I wasn't talking about kids in schools who actually have basic school choices, they don't have other electives, but they have to. Sit on the stairs. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127204	My colleague Stier, here you go, after him, my colleague Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127205	Dear Secretary of State, here, as far as I know, it is not true that you are a member of the HDZ, you represent the Government today, but you are also a longtime diplomat and your expertise really seems to me, both on the left and on the right of this House. My question is this, given that the motion is based on its argument that the Holy See is now ready to revise these Vatican Treaties, whether in contact with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs or with other government bodies, it is signalled, whether such a readiness is signaled, did you estimate that there is such readiness by the Holy See, because if there is no such proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127206	Okay. Next is my colleague, Misic, and then he's a colleague of Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127207	Thank you, Vice President HS. My fellow State Secretary, I ask the question, how long has the Catholic Church in Communist Yugoslavia suffered these 70 years, how much has been taken away, how unreturned, how damaged it has been throughout this period of 70 years, which, of course, no one has returned to the church what was theirs, and today they still have a problem getting to theirs. However, they call for Catholicism, we are all Catholics. In the end, this country is 90% Catholic, therefore, if these Catholics, even those in the House want a treaty with the Vatican, so you gentlemen on the left of the Yugoslav orientation, I'm sorry, but this will certainly remain unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127208	And the last replica of my colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127209	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when a person, in the light of his proposal, uses an act that points to this House of Commons at least on a Monday and has information on the implementation of the 2017 budget, says how serious this act is. However, I would remind my colleagues and colleagues of something else, the Government left from 2000 to 2003 to remain in debt to the church of 250 million, but they had no idea that they were launching an amendment to the Vatican Treaty. Just as it didn't occur to the government in 2012, in 2015 when it was also left. However, I say, at least it's on average, best talks about seriousness, but I would warn us all about something, when we send an act to this High House, then we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, what that act must look like, what it must contain, and this act simply It just doesn't look like it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127210	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 30-minute recess to hold a session of the Club, so that we will once again send a message that we will not accept a conclusion that goes towards the revision of the contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, in order to send a message that these contracts do not favour the Church, but determine a clear distinction between the tasks belonging to the jurisdiction of the State and the area in which the Catholic Church is sent, and to establish cooperation between the Catholic Church and the Republic of Croatia in mixed areas, or where their competences overlap. On the other hand, as the Secretary of State said, this contract was an inspiration, a proposal to the Republic of Croatia to sign a contract with other religious communities and churches in the Republic of Croatia, on which contracts, based by which the Treatys of Croatia clearly show that it supports, clearly and in general supports the work of religious organisations in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127212	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127213	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, I am also looking for a break, in order to once again warn the public that the so-called Vatican Treaties are actually based on three principles that are in direct contrast with national interests, the interests of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, it is economically unsustainable obligations, it is contracts that created legal uncertainty and counter-constitutional practices, and it is also contracts that produce so-called interest-bearing effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127214	Thank you. So, I'm taking a break until 5:50. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 17.23 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.50 HOURS]] I am opening a debate on the draft law of the conclusion on the opening of the negotiation procedure on changes to the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. First reported is colleague Zeljko Reiner on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me make it very clear that the HDZ Representatives Club will, of course, be negatively oriented according to this proposal for the conclusions of the GLAS and HSU Club. And I can say right away, that as long as HDZ is the strongest and strongest and strongest party and leader of the majority in this Croatian Parliament, it will always be opposed to such proposals, especially when they are not at all explained. I have to admit the disappointment, when I read, I repeat, that 4.5-page article, because there are so many, I would say missed things, so many shortages of any argument, and I'm used to usually discussing it based on arguments, based on data. First of all, the respected representative Mrak Taritash, who represented it, mostly used the term one that did not belong at all and these are the Vatican Contracts. These are contracts, there are no Vatican contracts, there are contracts, only 4 contracts with the Holy Table, i.e. between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy Table. So these contracts define a whole series of, monetary, material, political, social and other obligations of Croatia, but the promoters claim that this is all without any obligation of the Holy See, that there is no reciprocity of rights and obligations but actually a list of the privileges of a religious community, so it is explained. However, it shows, I would say or catastrophic ignorance, ignorance of things, would not say evil intent. The Holy See is not a state and neither of the contracts with the Republic of Croatia has been concluded in favour of the citizens of the Holy See, because such citizenship does not exist. The promoter of the conclusions clearly does not distinguish the state at all, as one type of holder of international law, from the Holy See, as the oldest continuing subject of international law, which is the subject of international law and the generalis as well as the EU. Contrary to conjecture to the proposer's conclusion that the Holy Chair of the State, the Holy Chair is not, it is the supreme authority of the Catholic Church. Thus, the central administration of the Catholic Church, i.e. the central administrative body of the Catholic Church, which is the subject of international law. In negotiations with the authorities of the Croatian state, the Holy See, represented the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, has legally regulated these contracts with important issues of relations between the Church and the state concerned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are also believers. The concept of reciprocity is the principle of international law under which a country gives certain rights or privileges to foreign citizens, provided that that and the other state treats its citizens alike. However, the officials of the conclusion ignored the fact that the Holy See does not have its citizens or the law on the citizenship of the Holy See and that it did not negotiate the rights, privileges or obligations of its citizens, but regulated the rights of Catholic believers, who are Croatian citizens and citizens. And therefore, reciprocating with the same measure, reciprocity, reciprocity, mutuality of the treaty with other countries cannot be recapitalised by relations governed by the contracts of a particular state with the Holy See. So that's one of the basics of course I'd say missed. What I'm also trying to say is, dear colleague Taritash said it's not about ideology, that it's not about attitude towards the Catholic Church, faith, etc. It's simply not true, because it says otherwise in the document. The document says, I will quote, therefore, the Catholic Church is an active and politically strong participant of exclusive debates that destroy the tissues of Croatian society, instead of declaring love and peace to all people, message of acceptance of community, messages of exclusive hatred, misunderstanding for others, and especially for others. The promoter of the conclusion is, in a completely inappropriate way, without fences, generalizing and irrevocably accusing, not only the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, but also the believers of the Catholic Church, and that is actually something that borders on hate speech. I was astounded when I read it inside, because such generalizations, such claims, would be the same as to say, I now state the claim that I don't know all the members of GLAS and HSU are like this or like that. Well, that would be completely inadequate, as this is completely inadequate. In addition, the fact is that many things are actually being challenged here, and that they are not based on something that would be expected to actually be founded. One of the things that clearly promoters of the conclusions is that the state budgets of creditors in schools and religious educators in kindergartens, teaching in Catholic elementary and secondary schools, Catholic higher schools, church colleges, which in itself could say that they are against pluralism in education and education, and that they do not understand that these students or their parents, if they are under 15 years of age, are free to choose whether they will go to religious school or not, and those who go to higher education are free to choose those institutions for their education. Is it by chance that only mentioning the termination of funding and the need to stop funding only Catholic educational and higher education institutions, not other Orthodox, Jewish, evangelical, etc., which also have pre-school and high school education, is in any case not very argumentative. One of the applicant's claims is that the setting of days is an absolute prerogative of national legislation and has no place in international contracts of any kind. This, therefore, again points to complete indiscriminateness because the lists of non-working days also contain a concord between the Holy See and Austria, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Poland, etc., so the debate on simply incorrect facts simply is not worthy of this home and does not need to be put in such documents, false facts and incorrect facts, thinking that this will not strengthen certain claims. It is also incorrect to claim that in the case of a judicial investigation, we cite the clerics for possible criminal offences provided for by criminal law, the judicial authorities will inform the competent church authorities of this earlier, which is a privilege not enjoyed by any other organisation or individual in the Republic of Croatia and which significantly violates the Constitution guaranteed equality before the law. Now, either ignorance or hope for no evil intention again, so first in other countries the same formulation, the concord between the Holy See and the Republic of Austria, the Holy See and the State of Spain, etc. A whole series of other countries, but also in Croatian national law 19 other religious communities have the exact same right and literally writes the same, about a criminal procedure for crimes being prosecuted by official duty against priests, for example, the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Orthodox Church, or another religious official, the court will inform the competent bishop, is the same for the Islamic community to inform a mixed, is the same for the Evangelical Church, the Reformed Christian Church will inform the bishop, and so now I do not quote all possible religious communities or churches in Croatia. Therefore, another inaccuracy, unnecessary but completely clear. I will return to the question that several colleagues have referred to, which is actually the meaning of that clause, that, of course, as in any international treaty, a conversation about a change of contract may take place if the opportunities that have to be substantially changed are changed, so indeed something dramatic happens and no, and according to the Vienna Agreement, there must be something that at the moment of the conclusion of the contract that the contract would not have been concluded or otherwise concluded, etc. This is simply not a fact, and even the authors have not stated what these circumstances have changed significantly, what are the new circumstances for changing contracts and adapting certain articles. If the applicants did not know or did not consider it necessary to describe the resulting changes in the opportunity, to assess the existing situation and not assess it, to specify the objectives and circumstances that the negotiations would adapt after the negotiations, it is obvious that the giving of the initiative is not actually driven by the concern of strengthening legal certainty, guaranteeing freedom of conscience and religion. All four contracts only changed, something changed, they were concluded at a time when the statistical fact was that according to the 1991 coup attempt. 76.5% of Croatian residents declared themselves Catholic, according to the 2011 list. 86.3% declared themselves to Catholics, it's the only thing that matters, but obviously not the one that the proponents of this conclusion thought of. The compromisers are also actually talking about something that I think there is a general consensus in Croatia, which is that there is separation between the church and the state. These are two institutions that are independent and independent each in their own order. Both the Church and the State have their own area of action, have different origins, different goals and means of achieving these goals, but they are meeting and sometimes overlapping and, of course, then one whole set of elements is common. It is common to say that they participate in education, of course, in different ways, but still, in this proposal we should point to some inaccuracies, for example, which suggest that the Republic of Croatia finance the Catholic Faculty of God at the University of Zagreb, with field studies of aphid theology in Đakov, Makarska, Rijeka and Split. Well, the Republic of Croatia has established a bologna study system, and there are no higher theological schools aphided with the Faculty of Zagreb, theology in Makarska, joined the University of Split, Đakov, as part of the University of Osijek, and the Croatian budgeted the salaries of employees at its public universities, so who also... ethics and musical pedagogy and religious sciences etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an incorrect argument from the argument that the church can establish other universities and institutes financed by the state without any restrictions provided for by the contract, it simply does not stand The state doesn't take over the automatic funding, neither does the Catholic University. [[Upadica Brkić: Col. Reinter.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127217	Dear colleague Reiner, unfortunately time. Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs. Pusic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate of my colleague and colleague. Thank you very much, colleague Reiner, I think this is already going in the direction of, say, some meaningful and interesting debates that you might have on this subject and that was among other things one of the key intentions of proposing a revision of these contracts, where you are right, the Vatican Treaty is one of the colloquial expressions. These are contracts between 2 international legal entities, on certain obligations relating to the Republic of Croatia, and that is what is said here that these two international legal entities have concluded contracts that de facto contain obligations. financing, because this is what we are calling for and what we want to discuss, so, which contains funding contracts, which are afraid, are not only about Catholics but are about all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they are financed from the budget and from taxes paid by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, in that sense, it is also the subject of our dealings or our interests. As for what you mentioned, let's just say some steps, some of the leading people from the Catholic Church who are not in line with the learning of the Catholic Church, let's just remember Bishop Kosic, that really can't justify it, I mean neither the church itself, and certainly no one who looks at Croatia, as some modern society and a modern community, pluralist community, as you stated. As for pluralism, you said that the view that religious science should be maintained in churches, any Catholic, any other, appropriate religion, is in no way related to the asphyxiation of pluralism, I would say, exactly the opposite. So each church has the right, the ability to organise religious teachings from its institutions in religious institutions, and as far as school is concerned, they are actually intended in this regard for a neutral attitude, with some values, which are the values of Croatian society. They certainly have the value of all religions. So all religions preach some of the humanitarian values and, of course, in the values of Croatian society there are, but that is what I would say, vice versa, engagement in pluralism, not in the asphyxiation of pluralism. You said that some other states have such rules as to informing church authorities in cases of possible prosecution, one of the priests. This is not about our proposal for argumentation, equality or inequality between states, but about inequality between citizens, between the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, where if you are by chance a priest of a church, regardless of which, you are in a different position, if you are in a situation where you are being prosecuted, but by anyone else in that country and there is the root of inequality and that is what we warn in this proposal. And finally some n of these circumstances, for example, a large part of the church's property was returned, a large part and the money was paid. It's our opinion that at this point, it's kind of something to make up, it can't be infinite, so there's a list that needs to be made up, some public insight into what it is and how much more it is to simply have a orientation, so that's where the circumstances have changed. When it started, it wasn't returned, most things weren't returned, at this point it was changed. Army We in our reforms came to 16,000 soldiers of several hundred thousand as much as at that moment the changed circumstances. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127219	Thank you, dear colleague Vesna Pusic. Your time is up, thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first replica of the Honored colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127220	Dear fellow Pusic, I told my colleagues from HDZ what belonged to them, and neither will you. So you're talking about universal values, and that's where you agreed with your HDZ colleagues, right, universal values, and you don't have a problem with money, because if the problem was money, you wouldn't share it with news, peace studies, the 112s, the CESI platforms, you'd be against the Istanbul Convention, you'd be against the Marrakez Agreement, so maybe you'd be critical of our membership in the NATO Pact and the EU. So what makes you sick here is what the Catholic Church was doing at a time of communism, and that's what's keeping Croatia and it's hurting you and it's hurting you, it's not money, it's not the values that the Catholic Church is propagating, it's what the Catholic Church is on and it's preserved with the Croatian people and it's a national and cultural identity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127221	Thank you. Answer, colleague Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127222	I hired my colleague Zekanovic against the totalitarian regime and in Yugoslav times, I didn't hear or hear you anywhere. So this kind of argument ad hominem doesn't work with me, I've been engaged in all the regimes I've been living in against both dictatorship and elimination of pluralism and dictatorial and exclusive systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127223	Thank you. Next replica, the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Željko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127224	Your Honor, ma'am. Mr. Pusic, first of all, I didn't mention any religious teaching in churches, so where did you get it out of my speech, I don't know, but well, it doesn't matter, it fits your thesis, so I guess that's why you said it. It's not true that much of the money was returned to the Church, you said yourself that it was actually about that data, so where did you get the information that much of the money was returned and the small was not or vice versa? There is also documentation about this at the end, there is only one book about Zagreb's archdiocese, everything that has been taken away from Zagreb's archdiocese and not so far back. And as for what you mentioned about the changed situation, so in the military, let's remember, that agreement was signed on December 18, 1996, 16 months ago. After the military-related action of the Storm, so when the war went down, And don't talk now... [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127225	Comrade Reiner, thank you. Answer, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127226	Thank you very much. So, as for the insight into what's been returned or not returned, we know for some real estate that they've been returned simply from the media, etc., but the truth is, we don't have that list and one of the requirements here is to do it, to get that information about what's going to happen and what's still going to happen in the future. So that's one of the reasons why we even started this initiative. And as for the military, we were doing a dramatic reform as far as the military is concerned, at that time remember, it's not over yet, only when the peace integration process of Eastern Slavonia began, so we were doing military reform related to NATO membership, and then it came to this number today and because it was 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127227	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Pusic. Next replica, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127228	Thank you. So you speak of this contract as a contract between the two states, so the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, but you leave out one other dimension, one other layer of this contract, that it is also a contract between the Republic of Croatia, the State and the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia, and since more than 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia declare themselves to Catholics, therefore to the members of the living Church, so this contract has one other dimension and is the wrong reduction of that contract only to the contract between the two countries. On the other hand, the adoption of this contract only on a financial dimension like you here and in your reasoning and in your address you also misstate it, forgetting the socio-helpful role of the Catholic Church both here and in the diaspora, therefore, when we talk about contracts, then we must bear in mind their multidimensionality, therefore, and their social usefulness.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127229	Thank you. Answer, colleague Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127230	So, it's contracts between two international legal entities, there's got to be more to it, but here we're talking about, our initiative is about these four contracts related to two international legal entities, and that's why we're talking about them, I agree that we could talk more widely, but now we're talking about this and that's what our initiative is about. And as for socially useful roles, there are certainly many aspects of socially beneficial roles, but so there are a whole series of organizations and a whole series of institutions, NGOs, the mass of other institutions in Croatian society, there should be some let's say the same archin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127231	I would like to thank my colleague Pusic, next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127232	Thank you very much, dear fellow Pusic, so when you talk about individual cases in the Catholic Church, of course,... the orderly and all these anomalies that can appear, it's no one slows down, not the pope, not the bishop, and of course that things like that happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you as a former former activist and as a politician who fights discrimination and hate speech, it is unacceptable and I do not know that, I think, it is a failure of the Croatian Parliament, that this act should come to the Croatian Parliament at all, Article 170 should not allow it. And you say that the Catholic Church, an active and politically strong participant of these and such exclusive debates that destroy the tissues of Croatian society instead of declaring love and peace to all people, messages of acceptance and community, messages of exclusion, hatred, misunderstanding for others, especially for different. You know it's not true yourself, but welcome to the ear for some social groups in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127233	I would like to thank my colleague Babic, colleague Pusic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127234	I've given you one of the equative examples that I think of, and I think it's obvious, of course there are a whole series of different examples, but there are some examples like this. I think the Croatian Parliament is mature enough and just the right place to conduct this kind of debate. I think it is a great success for the Croatian Parliament to be able to discuss it. We'll agree, so we probably won't agree, but for the first time in history we manage to talk about it openly, I think it's in itself, one sign of the maturity of the Croatian Parliament and one success.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127235	I thank my colleague Pusic for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127236	Thank you very much, colleague Pusic, I believe that this initiative of yours has just come at the right time, unlike the colleagues who think it is not, because everything in life has a period of time, and so have these contracts. So these contracts have already been passed 29 years ago. In 29 years, the world has changed a lot, and among other things, I agree with colleagues who say this is a contract and in one hand between the Croatian Church and the Republic of Croatia, but why should I review these contracts. Well precisely because as the world changes, the policy of the Catholic Church, which is now the head of Pope Francis, reforming that church and making total turns, has changed. And unfortunately, there is nothing you can do about it that the church in Croatia does not follow the politics of its Supreme Head, and therefore we should join in revising these contracts to see where we are and what we are. And no one is willing to terminate these contracts or abolish certain rights, but simply to make it a little more pronounced to see where we are today in relation to where we were before. And I don't see why it's a problem to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127237	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic, answer, colleague Pusic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127238	Thank you very much. Of course we don't see why it would be a problem to talk about it, which is why we initiated this debate. The contracts are ahead, not exactly 29, 23, 21 years old, but they really are, as long as they say, circumstances, in our opinion have changed in Croatia, and it seems to me to be in the Catholic Church, and I think that gives us the basis for the conversation, and since we're leading it, it has proved to be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127239	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for his reply. Next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127240	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to say that I find it wrong by GLASS gentlemen when they say this question is not a religious question, that it has nothing to do with religion or that it has nothing to do with the church. I believe that the issue of the financing of religious communities, with an emphasis on the Catholic Church, is a particularly religious issue. And right from that position, that is, from that argument I will explain why we in the Living Wall are opposed to funding religious communities from the state budget. Namely, when Jesus was on earth, Jewish, religious officials, saw religion in religion as an opportunity to earn money, Jesus did not support that practice. So, religion must not be a source of profit, listen to this John 2 from 14th to 16 in the temple found merchants, selling oxen, sheep and pigeons and exchangers that were there, then he knelt out of the rope whip and drove out of the temple, all together with sheep and ox, and exchangers of money and turned away their tables. To those who sold pigeon's words, take it out of here and don't make my father's house a shop. A similar situation that was in Jesus ’ day was in the days of the prophet Micah, he lived 800 years before Christ, says the sheep, Micah 3,9 to 12, so hear this chieftain of the house of Jacob, the leader of the house of Israel, who hate justice all that is rightly twisted, who build... In the blood and in Jerusalem, which is burned for bribes, their chiefs speak righteousness; their priests teach for wages; their prophets tell for money; and they call for Yahweh, and say, "Isn't Yahweh in the midst of us, the calamity will not come upon us; therefore because of you Zion will be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem will become a ruins, and a worse temple height in the forest has grown. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When he gathered the apostles together to preach the good news, heal the sick or even resurrect the dead, Jesus said, Matthew 10, 8, 9 treat the sick, raise the dead, clean the leprosy of the Devil, you received for nothing, give for nothing. You take not yourselves in your belts, nor gold, nor silver, nor other money. Beware of this thought, the apostle Paul, we can readily say that he was at the very least a religious official and also an authority. He says this, he never asked the believers, and let alone the state to give him money, listen to these words, first Corinthians 9:18. So what does it pay you, to preach the gospel without pay, so that I do not exercise my right to the gospel. So Paul himself fenced himself from believing in Christ to have any profit. When the apostle Paul needed money, he did secular work. Do you know what the apostle Paul was? You're tenting. I will read you the verse of Acts 18.2 and 3. “ And he found a Jew named Aquil, a native of Pontus who had recently come from Italy, his wife, Priscilla, because he had commanded Claudie to move all the Jews out of Rome. He came to them because they were in the same business, and stayed with them, and worked, and were in the craft of the tent." These are the works of the apostles. If the apostle Paul needed money, he did secular work. Note this, as regards the donations of the church, the apostle Paul gave clear instructions, others to the Corinthians 9.7. “Every one as he has decided in his heart, not with mourning or out of trouble, because God loves a cheerful giver.” And here the apostle Paul explains to you the Bible principle, the apostolic principle, the evangelical principle of giving from the heart, that every believer gives from the heart, not under duress, means, what is imposed as an alternative to the state directly financing religious communities, to introduce some kind of religious pay tax, and then, as men, is then taken from wages, no, that is not what the apostle Paul was saying. It is for the believers to give as much of their hearts as they will, if they wish to pay half their wages, if they do not desire any swear or swear. Let's move on. He says: “People did not follow Jesus ’ teaching because he was rich, on the contrary, Jesus financially was poor.” "When they went further, one said to him, I will follow you wherever you go, Jesus said to him, "the foxes have their pits, the birds of the heavens their nests, and the son of man has no place to lay his head." Even Jesus had no grave, it says to you in Matthew 27, from 57 to 60. Finally, he says: “When Joseph took the body, he turned it into linen clean, and laid it in his new grave, which he had given himself to cut into the rock. Before the entrance to the grave, a great stone came and went." Watch out like this, the apostles were very aware of it. Other Corinthians 8.9. "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that although he was rich, because of you he became poor, that you may become rich with his poverty." However, what wealth is he talking about here? Jesus was, says the Bible, king of kings, master of lords, he descended from the throne among men, where he was left without everything, eventually humiliated, on a cross crucified, etc. And the wealth we have in it is not material wealth, Jesus did not say that it was. Paul does not say here that Jesus has become poor, that we become rich in his poverty in a literal sense. But the Catholic Church, unfortunately, was rich, but not spiritually rich, in the fullness of spiritual gifts, but, unfortunately, almost exclusively in a material sense. What Jesus had was the power of God, not money, Jesus treated the blind, according to Mark 8.21 to 8.25, says: “He said to them: ‘ Do you not yet understand, they came to Vienna, and there they brought to him the blind, and they asked him to touch him, and he took a blind man by his hand, and he brought him out in front of the village, and he wet his eyes with spit, and he put his hands upon him, and he asked him if he looked and said, ‘ I see men walking as if they were wood. ’ Once again put his hands on his eyes, he could see well, he was healed and he saw everything completely clear." He treated the lepers, it was in Mark 1.40 to 42. he said: “The full of mercy he gave his hand, touched him, and said to him, "Be a clear word and the leprosy went away from him immediately and was clean." Then paralyzed, this is a strong event from Luke 5.18, 5.19. says: "People brought on the bearers of man taken. They tried to bring him into the house, and put him in front of him; for the multitudes could not bring him in; so they went up to the roof, and sent him down through the trunks with a bed in the midst of Jesus. When they see their faith, your sins are forgiven for you." etc. etc. Then he said, "I command you, get up, take your bed and go home. He immediately stood up before their eyes, took the bed on which he was lying and went home celebrating God." He healed Jesus speechlessly and obsessed, this is in Matthew 9.32. "When they were gone, they brought him a man dumb who was obsessed with the devil. As soon as he was expelled from the Devil, he could speak silently, full of the excitement of the cry of the people, it never happened like that in Israel." And what was most spectacularly likely, he raised the dead, so it was an event one described in Luke 7, from 11th to 16th and even managed nature, that is when he walked on water etc. Anyway, the reason why people followed Jesus, I believe that you would agree with me, was not because Jesus had great wealth, great wealth, or because Jesus had a lot of money, no, Jesus was simply a miracle who convinced people that he was the one who had authority, that he was the one whose word had weight and that he was telling the truth, or I would dare say that he was the way, the truth and the life. Today's church does not have these gifts that Jesus speaks of, today's church does not raise the dead from the graves, does not restore sight to the blind, does not allow the deaf to hear etc. etc., paralyzed do not lift them up to walk, etc., although Jesus gave a clear direction to us, he said, saying that his disciples would do greater deeds than those he had done. Says Ivan 14.11. to 12. "Trust me that I am in the Father and that the Father is in me, if not, believe me because of the works themselves. Indeed I tell you, whoever believes in me, the works that I do, and he will do, and the greater of these will do, because I am going to the Father." You have 3.2. to 9. then 5.12. to 26. and you have etc. etc. And in the end, you have a miracle when Paul was delivered from the dungeon that is works 1626 to 34 and that is what we are now coming up with a key detail. The role of the church and the salvation of the people, and there is no salvation without conversion, without rebirth and repentance, or rejection of sin. The basic problem we face today is sin. Sin is what essentially kills at the end of a man. And if each of us is not free of sin, the Bible says that our future is black. And he says, at John 8:34, Jesus, indeed I tell you, whoever commits sin, sin is a slave to sin. The apostle Paul also says in the Romans, since we died in sin, how to keep living in it. Or don't you know that all of us who are baptized in Christ Jesus are baptized to his death. So we are buried with him and in order to live a new life, knowing that our old personality is crucified with him, so that our sinful body may lose power over us so that we no longer slave to sin because whoever died is freed from our sins. It's not meant literally, but figuratively, death. So, brothers, we are not in debt to the body, that we live by the body. For if ye live by the flesh, ye shall die; if ye die by the Spirit of the works of the flesh, ye shall live. For whoever is ruled by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. And now, this is now the summa summarum, says this, the First Messenger to the Corinthians 6, or do you not know that the wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God, do not be deceived, nor the fornicators, nor the adulterers, nor the softlings, nor the masculine, nor the thieves, gentlemen of the HDZ, this is a strong emphasis, nor the thieves, nor the greedy, nor the drunkards, nor the swearers, nor the robbers will inherit the kingdom of God. This is what some of you were, but you are forgiven, you have dedicated yourselves, you have justified the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and the Spirit of our God. But watch this thought, gentlemen of the HDZ. Every time you lie, remember these words. He says, all liars belong in a lake of fire burning fire and sulfur, it's Revelation 21:8. What you advocate is that you unfortunately do not understand the Gospels, and the essence of the Gospel is in the salvation of man, in that man rejects sins, and lives a godly life in Jesus. You think you're doing a religious duty by giving hundreds of millions to the Catholic Church. However, Jesus Christ, even the apostles never asked us to do so. What God asks of you as a representative, is not state money or your personal money, he doesn't need your money, he has everything. He needs your heart. And you've made a substitution in a way that, instead of your heart, you've given state money to the Catholic Church, believing that you're doing something that makes God comfortable or right, but I assure you, what you're doing is a great error. The church was ruined by money. The church today is rich, unfortunately, only money, and it only fails because of that money, it has been dragged into by all sorts of people eager for this world. And to the end he would have read unto you, Comrade Thessalonians 2:11 and 12; therefore God sent unto them a mighty error which led them to believe a lie, that all those who disbelieved in the truth might be condemned, but they found contentment in injustice. The point of the whole story is, God is always the same. God doesn't change. That's what it says in Malachi. I, Yahweh, do not change, but you sons of men are constantly changing. From the time of your fathers, you step away from my offices and then he says come back to me and I'll come back to you. And he also tells you in the New Testament, says Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, tomorrow and always will be. The Gospel that the Catholic Church preaches, asking for money by force from the state, or by requiring money from the state, which has nothing to do with Bible principles, is a great theological, religious error. And you HDZ gentlemen, by persevering in that delusion, you actually show how weak you know the Gospel because if you had any knowledge of the Gospel, you would realize for yourself that the only correct principle is that the financing of the church is voluntary, that everyone does so from the heart, that the state and the church have nothing to do with each other. What you're doing isn't even theocracy, it's not, you don't establish some divine justice on earth, you just told the church you close your eyes and let us do whatever we want. This is actually the essence of your policy and this policy will be condemned at the end of time. Have no doubt about it, and if you do not repent of your sins, not just you, each of us, I first, will all perish together at the end of time I will end up with you and for this reason I have decided to surrender my heart to Jesus and reject sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127241	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, dear colleague Pernar. There are a lot of work to be done in front of religious communities in Croatia, it will take many to save. Next debate on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I would like to say that we are extremely pleased that this topic, or initiative, has finally been found on the HS agenda because it is shown, more than white that this is a very legitimate, important and very necessary topic for the health of the social community. In fact, this is a subject that can be easily replaced by the thesis. So when it comes to the metrics, it's a subject of religious or other insufferableness. Or that it's a speech that goes against religious freedoms. That is, therefore, one subject many will try to use, or use so far, especially if they have not read the Vatican Agreements, to show in some way in public that they are a zealous believer, who, by defending these agreements, thus proving a quality of belonging to their religious community. It's about replacing thesis. In fact, all these contracts that are here are international contracts that have one very important clause, which is that if there is a change in the circumstances in which they have been adopted, that a discussion on their change can be opened. This, of course, does not imply the obligation that they really do change, because our argument against arguments on the other hand should only in this sense conflict in some way. That conversation can and must be legitimate. Why do we think there are conditions for this? We've written it down, but we need to do it again. There are at least 5 theological reasons, there are among these reasons, past theological ones, one very important that is economic and what is extremely important is our harmonisation in terms of long-term definition in which we want our children to be raised. I will start with what I mentioned first a Croatian theologian said that the theological conditions for reviewing are the fact that the modern church, the church of the poor and the neglected, the church of goodness and mercy, the merciful humanity, or the church of the cross and patience, that the church, the church of hope and joy, when we talk about the Catholic Church, is about it, that the church is a church of peace and that the Catholic Church is a dialogue with the world. For all these reasons, there is a pay for discussing what is called a technique of mutual relations between the two states. One that is the queen of a very important religious community and the other who has signed her obligations in four contracts. We think these contracts are anacrons, unconstitutional and interest rates. Why are anacronyms, they are written in one spirit as the written Concordes were signed before II. World War II, a way that has never been repeated has been written, Secretary of State of the Holy See Angelo Sodanno in 1997, a congratulating Republic of Croatia because the first country or state was created in the area of the former communist countries that ratified one such or group of agreements with the Vatican. No other East country has repeated this model. Croatia is therefore the first, but remains unfortunately the only one, and in that sense visible in that model, which gives everything from it, which is asked by the state. Even Poland at a time when the Pope was Polish did not go near these standards to negotiate its relations with the Holy Table note with the Catholic Church. And no other Eastern European country, just us. We can understand that at that time when there is still peaceful reintegration when the state does not still have jurisdiction in its entire area, when we have a whole series of foreign policy problems, we are not a member of any international organisation, we are helped by a diplomatic assembly, and these are in many cases exactly the nuncia of the Holy See. We didn't return anything to the Catholic Church at that time from what was taken away, so we can understand that at that time these circumstances are no longer present. The church changed, everything changed, the atmosphere changed, but so did the state. Meanwhile, those conditions that existed back then are now completely different. They say estimates based on the revolving value of the money paid from the state budget to the Catholic Church alone that the amount moves between 15 and 18 billion kunas in these 20 and several years without any single real estate returned. If we were to add to that the value of real estate then we would actually know what money and values are about. So if there was to be compensation and damage we need to know what limit, what is that value, it can't be a permanent obligation without an end and an end because it's burdening the whole series of generations that are just coming. We need to establish a fair balance, so much are these contracts and interest rates because they in some way establish a commitment without end and end without any measurement. We don't even know how much this will cost to the end of these contracts. What the Government replied to us in 5 times tells us, and the way it was actually responding by hiding the real data, revealing them in stages, saying that we still don't have all the information, let's say we don't have any information on how much funds are spent on preschool learning, we don't have accurate information or almost no resources coming from the budgets of local (regional) self-government units. So, when we take just those conservative figures that the government has reported to us, it's almost 900 million kuna, just for the needs of a church. Of the total amount, 96% goes to the Catholic Church. It is said that other religious communities have such contracts, unfortunately they do not. So, under one, negotiations with other religious communities took years to sign contracts, and none are identical to those that were embodied in 4 different or special agreements that treat the position of the Catholic Church, not one, each of which is completely different. Why did the state do this, why didn't it, if they already want to, based on these Vatican agreements, one model that would then apply to all religious communities. I guess that's what those who did it know, we certainly claim that this puts in place the principle of legal uncertainty, inequality before the law. Let's just say one example, the content of school or teaching aids above all textbooks from Catholic religious science determines the Catholic Church on its own, the state has absolutely no authority over the content of books from religious sciences, it is obliged to accept books as such, as an official teaching tool and pay for their production. In all other religious communities, religious communities must first and foremost obtain the consent of the competent ministry of the content of books intended for religious science and the state has no obligation to produce or pay for their production and printing. At the beginning, therefore, there are completely different positions but small religious communities have also been satisfied with the tiny crumbs given to them. In this particular case, agreements which, among other things, produce legally different statuses, as has already been said here, in the particular case of the position of priests before the law. No other citizen has the grace to inform his wife, mother, father or wife of the State's Attorney's Office of the intended prosecution. Only priests have this where their office, or bishop, or mufti or rabbis, can inform the chief rabbi of the persecution. We already see that the legal position of citizens in the Republic of Croatia has been violated, that we are not talking about how religious teaching is being done. The one at the beginning is unfortunately placed on a segregation and discrimination. No other religious community enjoys this kind of privilege enjoyed, say, by the Catholic Church in implementing a Catholic religious program or by implementing a religious program. Children who have not enrolled in religious studies are exposed to chicaning, segregation, ridicule, and they cannot compensate for not going to school to attend religious studies because, as you know, there are memos from parishioners who say parents, a child who does not attend school religious studies, cannot access sacred sacraments. Independently, he fulfils his church obligations. The concept of religious science as it was introduced, in the early 1990s, criticised a number of very prominent theologians and representatives of churches, on behalf of the Catholic Church, the idea of introducing religions into schools, rejected Adalbert Rebic, on behalf of the Evangelical Church Bishop Vlado Dojic, on behalf of the Islamic community then I have a later Mufti Mustafa Ceric, all of them said that religious science was not a place in school, however it happened, first of all in the term of Minister Ljilje Vokić and later on the basis of these agreements that religious science became a mandatory electoral object. In what way is he bound? There's practically no choice. In all countries where religion is introduced into public schools, there is an obligation to alternate through religious culture, ethics, or something like that. Or religious culture. We don't have it. Children sitting on the stairs, children sitting in halls, children sitting in libraries and not being offered any alternative content, even moreover, children who enter ethics in high school, are threatened not to be able to meet their preconditions for gaining sacraments. After all, the worst possible criticism of religious sciences in Croatian schools said three days ago or four bishops of Hvar-Shirt-Brother Palić who said that the new generations are completely illiterate, criticising them for not knowing their own religion, running from the Church, so isn't that enough when someone who is the secretary of the Croatian Bishop's Conference tells you that after 25 or 27 years of experience of religious science in schools, they say that the generations raised by believers who he and the bishops set up others and not school directors, not any other educational bodies so that they failed because they had raised illiterate, religiously illiterate children, then that model is not good. Go to the Veronacular Portal, there you can list school materials or all religious materials, among other things you will find a flyer in which you wonder who is praying, who is not praying. Everyone in the house prays except cows, horses and pigs. Is that the way to teach our children? The atheists are to blame for Auschwitz, is that the message that should be given to our children? So these are all reasons why we think that the model was introduced through the Vatican Agreements came into a major crisis because the important circumstances changed and that the Church itself should think about reevangelising society by other methods but on the other hand that we need to be aware that as much as the Catholic Church has received over the past 20 years is nothing but the equivalent of 6 Pelesian bridges, it is equivalent to about 600 kindergartens for 200,000 children in total. It's equivalent to about 500 schools for about 180 000 children. Can you imagine that? We need to translate these things into the language of numbers and then into a natural substitution, so you'll see what that value is, we're not talking about the return of property at all, because we don't know anything about it, we'd like to have it done to other citizens and other legal persons just as quickly as it is done under these Vatican Treaties, which is unfortunately not the case. In this sense, these are contracts that cause legal uncertainty and the difference between law and law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127243	I thank my esteemed colleague, Richembergh. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127244	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There are several facts to be said at first, after Croatia became an independent and independent state, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to regulate relations with the Holy Table for the benefit of its citizens. The decision had far-reaching consequences in the relations between the Church and the state. In the presidential courts of Zagreb on 19 December 1996, three contracts were signed between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia. The first contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on the custody of Catholic believers of members of the OSCE and the regular service of the Republic of Croatia. The second contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of education and culture and the third contract on legal matters. Furthermore, the fourth contract was signed on 9 October 1998 and that contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on economic issues. To properly understand the contract in mind should always have the structure of the Catholic Church as well as the relationship of the Holy See and the individual local church that is actually with it in complete union. The Holy or Apostolic Chair is seated in the true body of the Catholic Church. She's also an original subject of international law. In fact, contracts determine the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Catholic Church represented by the Holy See, i.e. The central body of the Catholic Church. From a legal point of view, contracts were signed by representatives of two entities, international law and therefore have an international legal value. The legal value of international contracts exceeds the laws of each country. In the event of disagreement with existing legal provisions, the advances have legal provisions of international importance. In the case of current contracts between the Holy See, a possible conflict has been avoided because contracts generally take into account existing legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Here is a particularly important contract on legal issues that determines the framework for the public action of the Catholic Church and its legal persons and the relationship between the Church and the State. This contract ensures that each church and state are independent and independent in their order. By accepting the contract, the Republic of Croatia recognised the Catholic Church as an equal talker. Next to document II. The Vatican Assembly as well as the principles that each in its area is independent of each other and autonomous, the Holy See holds the following principles in the conclusion of agreements with states and political communities. First, the contract between the Church and the State should in a permanent manner guarantee freedom of faith in the Catholic Church, its members and its various social groups. Secondly, the objective of these contracts is not to give the Church privileges but not to take away or restrict the right to religious freedom that otherwise belongs to other groups and religions. Thirdly, the bishops of that State and fourth should participate in the creation of a contract between the Church and the State as well as in their practical application, and from binding concords the privileges contrary to spirit and science II should be removed. The Vatican Assembly. But is everything in practice exactly how it's regulated? Perhaps the best example I have already mentioned is the example of the Hvar bishop mons. Petra Palić, who in his sermon pointed out that practical and theoretical atheism, religious indifference and avoidance of church membership were at the beginning of the last century the phenomenon of the elite and today we are increasingly experiencing a kind of religious illiteracy of new generations. Palic also pointed out that unlike the apostolic times, when paganism was something outside and opposed to religious communities, secularism today entered houses and became part of our existence. Thus, it is said that the time has come for Pope Francis to call him conversions, transformations, those pastoral and missionary ones. And it actually shows an elementary ignorance of the concept of secularity. It is wrong to identify secularity with the theism because secularity does not mean the absence or even banning religion, on the contrary, the prerequisite for secularism is the existence of freedom of conscience and religion, the right to belong to a religious community, the right to change or leave a particular religious community as well as the right to non-belief and non-belief of any religious community, the right to have humanistic moral principles. Secularity protects not only the rights of religious minorities or non-believers but it primarily protects freedom and human and civil rights of the believers themselves and freedoms of religion belong to individual human beings rather than to religious institutions. Secularity is two-way, it involves not only State non-involvement in religious matters, not imposing certain religious beliefs on all its citizens but also preventing the codification of religious dogmas, certain religious communities in world laws that should apply to all citizens. Respect for secular values is a necessary condition for maintaining and strengthening a democratic society based on respect for human rights. Secularity is a guarantee of equal freedom of conscience and religion and faith for all people. But the context and time in which the contracts with the Holy Table were signed was the time of war and pornography. Meanwhile, the circumstances in the state have changed significantly, but also in the church itself, in which the new Pope Franjo is more strongly representing social justice and equality and the revision of the contract, a form in which the church receives money from the state budget should be clearly established. It is unacceptable that this formula is now related to the number of parishes, which actually encourages the establishment of new parishes although there is no real need for it, and on the other hand, given the increasing number of inhabitants, unfortunately, the number of believers in the Republic of Croatia is reduced. The state needs to know exactly what hundreds of millions of kunas are investing in from the budget, and that is the point here, and the church should submit a report to justify the spending of citizens' money, precisely those hundreds of millions of kunas that the state gives out of the budget. After all, it is the money of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The church definitely needs help and nobody slows it down, but not in a way that the politicians in the budget give as much money as they want to the church communities they want. If someone is a believer, he should give the church out of his salary or pension, such as the example in Germany, not to be taken from all citizens. As for religious science in schools, it should be organised in a way that maintains the first or last school watch, as other children who do not attend it would not be discriminated against. But we think that in the end, we are in SDP, a religious place in churches, not in school, because I'm going to quote pok. Don. Ivan Grubisic, who shared these assembly benches, who said that religious science at school did a negative thing precisely for the church itself because if the church wants to save its identity and sending, the religious science must return to its premises, only so will the young and the children bind themselves. One of the important things, when it comes to Vatican contracts, is work on Sundays. Working on Sundays, given that we are a tourist country, we cannot fully ban it, but we are aware that it should be better regulated with clearly defined employer obligations, and the first and only obligation of the employer is to pay the work properly and fairly, more than the rest of the days. On the example of a good revision of the Vatican Treaty, we do not have to go so far as our neighbours, our first Slovenian neighbours made this revision in a successful, very good way by saving their citizens' money and that's the point here. Finally, the only intention of the SDP's proposal to amend the Vatican Treaties where we agree with our opposition colleagues is that children are not discriminated on a religious basis, to save money, to spend money on the part of the church in a transparent manner and to pay the work adequately on Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127245	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Party's Representatives Club, both solidarity and Independent MPs, dear colleague Rechimer Varda, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127246	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, how do I begin? So he would almost agree with the first part of the debate of his colleague Bernardic because I did not find in his debate what actually prompted me to take part in this debate, and what it said in the proposal of the GLAS and HSU Club on the last page in which it reads: "In the end, the question of meeting the Catholic Church's mission to the Republic, in a country that is divided, in which each political discrepancies cause intolerance and hatred to others, the Catholic Church is an active and politically strong participant of these and such exclusive discussions that solve the tissues of Croatian society. Instead of love and peace, all people hear messages of exclusion, hatred, misunderstandings for others, and especially for others." I think this is the platform on which this initiative was launched, this is hatred and intolerance. Secondly, in this debate I have often heard of the Vatican Treaties, there are no Vatican Treaties here, this is not a treaty with the Vatican City State, but a contract with the Holy Table representing local churches towards the states. So it's about that, let's say, classic concordate. Therefore, it is a bilateral international agreement with certain particulars or particulars because of the specificity of the international legal subjectivity of the Holy See to which the law of international contracts applies and now we are here. Can we change international law ourselves in relation to the international treaty? What circumstances have changed? Personally, I don't see them. For a number of reasons, first of all, because the contract is not just, so I'm not talking about religion or religion, I'm a sinner like my colleague Stier said, just like he or more or less, it doesn't matter, all the time you've been talking about I don't work, we're not talking about religion, we're not talking about religion, we're talking about the Catholic Church here, we're not talking about the Jewish, we're not talking about the Muslim, we're not talking about the Serbian Orthodox Church. They're fine, they don't cause hate, they don't cause impatience, that's all the Catholic Church does, and that's why we have to go audit international contracts. I couldn't draw the second conclusion. So if we assume that this is, we should even adopt this proposal. I am now wondering whether this would lead to questions and the status of a contract between the Republic of Croatia with other religious communities, especially the Serbian Orthodox Church, Jewish or Muslim, and the churches in the proposal do not mention at all, these contracts and those expenditures from the state budget at all, are not mentioned at all, and these are contracts or agreements, however you will, allocate funds, I have nothing personal against all churches in the Republic of Croatia and all associations in the Republic of Croatia being subject to the obligation to report Croatian citizens, taxpayers about how and in what way they spend the money they receive from the state budget. I don't have any dilemmas here, I don't have this dilemma in general, because the contract, as I understand them, how I read them, and the purpose of those funds, knows exactly why the funds are being allocated. But what we don't know and what you don't have a basis for such proposals, that's what that value of the Catholic Church and other churches and the Jewish Church, if that's what I can call it, in the Republic of Croatia that has taken away property and good property during the Yugoslav communist rule. Do we have that calculation? And you say yourself you don't know him, and you could have asked the government for information as far as it stands out. In addition, the contracts on economic issues between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia states that all those goods that can be returned will be returned to find an appropriate replacement for the goods that cannot be returned and paid in compensation for the remaining assets. This should have been determined by a mixed commission and I believe that such a finding exists, I believe that there is, if there is no, a mixed commission should determine what is the value, what are the properties, which are good, and then we could find an account until, say, if there is no return of property and in what value we do not have, obviously we do not have or you did not ask for it. On the other hand, we need to keep in mind three principles when discussing decisions in the Catholic Church, including other churches. This is the principle of recognising the socially valuable work of the Catholic Church in the service of citizens in the cultural, educational, social and ethical field, to mention the monetary and annual contributions made possible by the Catholic Church and others to carry on in a decent way promoting the general good and to keep in mind the amount mentioned, the relevant and church state authorities had in mind the percentage of citizens who, in particular, refer to Catholics. However, in any case, in relation to what I said as a basis for your proposal, the Labour and Solidarity Party Club and the Independent Representatives will not accept this proposal as a conclusion or accept the government's opinion in relation to the conclusion submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127247	Thank you, dear colleague Vardi. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we've heard a lot of details in this debate, about this proposal. I really don't want to get into some details right now, but to say something about the global context, about the context, about the current context in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to this initiative. We heard on several occasions, as the colleagues and colleagues said, that it was really something honest, then surely Mrs. Mr. Taritas would have started when she was a member of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, she did not do it, no one did it then from that Government of Zoran Milanovic or the distinguished Mrs. Pusic, who was Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, was not done by anyone from the SDP government when her president was Ivica Racan, but remembered this now. Why? Because they don't have any issues, they have problems in their own ranks, they're not homogeneous and they want to polarize society on this matter. So this is a deliberate polarization or a deliberate attempt to polarize society at the moment, and everything except that it doesn't want to polarize society. We heard it a little while ago when she was a lady. Dark Tarritash spoke of whether, as a proposing woman, we should not count the blood cells. So who's doing it? We have an instance here in HS that counts the blood cells of any of us in HS or in the Republic of Croatia. It's not there, but you throw something in public space and say, "We won't do it." So who's doing it? Here, in this text of yours, I'll just quote this, it says in the end, and I quote: "The question of meeting the Catholic Church's mission to the Republic of Croatia, in a country that is divided, in which every political dissent is caused by expressions of impatience and hatred toward others. The Catholic Church is an active and politically strong participant of these and such exclusive discussions that destroy the tissues of Croatian society." This is it. So, in the name of it, you're imputing that there's hatred and there's disagreement. I also told the Committee on Foreign Policy that I had the impression that we have an informal consensus that on the basis of the arguments in Croatia we will discuss rather than on the basis of some ideological responsibilities in which they are context... contracts with the Holy Table negotiated and signed in the 1990s when it was still in the memory of people in Croatia what the communist government had done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Due to the dispute, the trial of Cardinal Stepinc has ended diplomatic relations between Yugoslavia, the FNRJ and the Holy See and have just been restored... It took 14 years to restore diplomatic relations and one protocol signed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? We will not go into detail so that we do not expand any divisions again but that means the Catholic Church was an enemy in society and it was only normalized in the 1970s, and it culminated that at the end of the 1990s we had one normal situation in Croatia so we could sign such contracts with the Holy See in Croatia, in a country where the vast majority of people consider themselves Catholics, perhaps not all believers but culturally feel like Catholics. It's a reality. And when I hear once cheap arguments, he says it's in the world, what's it like in Europe, in which Europe? I said it a little bit in that replica when you had your exposure as a proposing. In which Europe, you speak when they go into the world, where they go, where they go, to Germany. Well, in Germany, there's always been... evangelical religious teaching, so what are you talking about? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, get a little information, so kids can choose, if they don't choose each other, they can choose the third, they can choose ethics. And in some federal countries, they can even choose an Islamic religion if they want to. And that's how it is. And since it's funded in Germany, not only is there a concord when you're already talking about your knowledge that you know everything very well, there's a concord between Germany and the Holy See and there are contracts between the Holy See and the federal countries. Brandenburg, the vast majority is atheistic, the smaller part is Protestant, it is all the result of the action of the Eastern German Democratic Republic, the DDR, and you have one small minority of Catholics, they have 3% of the population, 85,000 and for them there is a contract with the Vatican and the state of Brandenburg singles out direct funds from the budget for the Catholic Church plus there are taxes plus there are donations of believers plus there is property of the Catholic Church. Four sources of funding, and now you're telling me something here that's a terrible lot of RH. We have a model in Croatia that we can boast of in the world. Well, the Mufti boasts about it in the world. Well, if it's a mufti, I guess so can we. Going now to touch these contracts is not only to go to touch the Catholic community in Croatia, to disrupt relations with the Holy Table but it means to disrupt relations with other religious communities because there are not only Catholics in Croatia, Catholics are the vast majority. There are Orthodox people, there are evangelics, there are other Christian communities, there are Jews, there are Muslims. And if you ask them, they're for this model, they're mostly for this model that we in the Republic of Croatia have. Then you're reporting how many three and a half months before the European elections with some theme just like that, by the way, we're going to change contracts with the Vatican. I said this text you've attached here is really bad. It's not a scientific text. I'll help you next time, I'll give you people who know how to write it so that you have some real data, to make some comparative study so you know what you're talking about and in this way with the wrong data, it's bad and it surprises me, by you, by the person who was a highly qualified minister in the government. So let's be serious when we talk about false news, about arguments, so let's show it in the Croatian Parliament. I'm not going to fight point-by-point now because I'm a man of mercy, I want to help as much as you do, but I'm asking you nicely, in future organize yourself, find experts, scientists, make a study, and then as real experts here in the Parliament we'll debate such serious things as the Republic of Croatia contract with the Holy Table. I'm going to say this again, this is what our German cultural friends say... So after you've had some brandy, you've got some idea, some inspiration, no more than that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No more than that and now some stories come back from 2015 when it really was with us or them. When there's nothing left, it's us or them. We don't need that in Croatia anymore, us or them. We and them. We are together in this not-so-great country but a beautiful country, with beautiful people, us and them, not us or them. Let's forget that story, it was during communism, us or them. I don't want to hear it anymore or suffer it, but I want to have a nice talk together about serious things, and I want to talk about this, but structured, not by the way... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127249	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac. We have several replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Kovac, I listened very carefully to your debate and you've done very well in dissuading the methodology in which this unserious request came to the Assembly. But he would point out one other thing, so these colleagues who turned with this initiative on another topic are highly invited and are full of their international reputation for Croatia to protect Croatia's international reputation. So say, as former foreign minister, what do you think about Croatia's reputation means that in such an unserious way, without any arguments, relations with the oldest diplomacy in the world, and not only the oldest and most respected diplomacy in the world, but also diplomacy that has played a key role that may have bothered some here in the process of international recognition of Croatia, so here is the same thing that I think needs to be pointed out so here, what do you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127251	Thank you, dear colleague Kovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127252	For us here in Croatia is always our political community, of course, when we watch the contract with the Holy Table, we look at the interests of our believers, in this case Catholic believers. But what fellow Sokol said when we were talking about it, then we can, of course, mention again that this is true that the Holy See really had a strong engagement when it comes to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia 28 years ago, it is true but we have, otherwise, since the beginning of the ethnicity of the Croats in today's Croatia and beyond, a strong relationship with the Catholic Church, with Christianity, say it but regardless of who is in Croatia, we have the interest of our political community, our believers in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127253	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127254	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Kovac, when you spoke about Mufti then when he spoke about religious communities in Croatia, he spoke not of the position of the Catholic Church in Croatia but of the position of the Islamic community in Croatia and that its position was well resolved so that it could be an example of resolving the position of a Catholic minority in Islamic countries, so completely different. Your speech was appropriate in-political bickering with few ideological observations and full of general phrases. But you haven't told us exactly what the proposings have pointed out, and that's the problem with the current Vatican Treaties. So the problem is whether the Catholic Church should submit a financial report to state bodies if it spends budget funds. Does the State Audit have the right to control the spending of budget money, whether creditors should advance in the school system on a different scale compared to other teachers in the school system and such things as colleagues... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127255	Thank you, dear colleague Klisovic. Answer, Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Klisovic, I think we learned that Islam and Judaism and Christianity are monotheistic religions but I also learned that mufti is responsible for Muslims and not Catholics, and we agree on that, right, we learned that because we learned at school. But Mr. Klisovic, as a great expert and a great expert on canon law, for international law, for Catholicism you worked very hard on this plan when you were Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, you stood up and every day you woke up to think that it was horrible in Croatia with these Vatican Treaties, you couldn't sleep, they had to calm you down, right? Not the words you said you didn't. You have not spoken a word like your boss Zoran Milanovic, I am pleased that he, as a man, had a socialist awareness of the importance of the relationship of Catholic believers in Croatia of the Holy See. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127257	Thank you, dear colleague Kovac, for your reply. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127258	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovac, you've been in Germany for a long time, so use a little German way to edit this problem, but Croatia is far from it. In Germany at school you can choose ethics, you want religious evangelists, you want Catholics, you can choose, you don't choose in Croatia. And on the other hand, the contracts were signed 20 years ago and over in those times that were as they were and now the times are different and the contracts are signed in those times, but times are changing and quite certain that some other winds are blowing by the Catholic Church of the Vatican, and it should be used but obviously that you in HDZ can't do that. And another question, the contracts must withstand the EU test and whether they are in line with the EU Association Treaty and I am very interested in what you think, whether they are in line or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127259	Thank you, colleague Mrsic. Answer, Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127260	Mr. Col. Mrssic, you were a member of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, and you were not at the time talking about the need to change the treaty with the Vatican, the Holy Table, but look, first thing, our country, our Croatia, for any of us is first, and we don't want to deal with the worse ones, only with the better ones or those who may have been more developed because they had some other chances that we didn't have. Therefore, when we talk about countries that have it well arranged, there is Germany, there is France which I also know well, but look, what's first of all is that we're not going now with some kind of measure that you could interpret as discriminatory Catholic believers in Croatia, let's not do that, I said, it's a very cheap story for this occasion, it's serious things, let's not do that,... Relax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127261	I thank my colleague Kovac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127262	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Kovac, no one questions what the Catholic Church is and how much the Vatican has helped the Croatian state in both history and today. A colleague says long-term contracts, what we should do every three years, like we do every five years, change contracts because we seem to be used to it, never what we've done, we don't think we've done right, any government has done it. You said well, Milanovic did not recognise that these are bad contracts, he did not recognize the previous Racan, so this is one of the populists who wants to expand to get some points locally ahead of the European Parliament elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127263	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127264	Thank you very much, fellow Muscle for this thought of yours. I already told my colleague Sokol, now is not the time for us to elaborate on what he did, who was in favour of Croatia 28 years ago, it is another pair of shoes, this is about the interests of Croatian believers, in this case Catholics, but again I will say, this is how I approach one of these serious things, I find it irresponsible, it is a social debate, and I am convinced that it will not help colleagues in the elections for the European Parliament, this is too serious, it is a social debate and it should be avoided to be some kind of war culture, it is bad for Croatian society, we must prevent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127265	I thank my colleague Kovac. Next replica, dear colleague Marin Skibola, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127266	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Kovac, President Grabar-Kitarovic today has said faith is an important component of my life, not for reviewing the Vatican Treaties. Now I'm curious about what faith has to do with the arrangement of the Vatican Treaties? So in my opinion, it's two separate things and in that way manipulate, I think it's at least not good. The second thing you say is that you should look at the interests of the believers, I agree with you, you should look at the interests of Catholic believers but their interests are that the State Review enters the religious communities, all religious communities, and also at the Catholic Church because it will thus increase the trust of those believers in that institution itself if it is transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127267	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127268	Dear fellow Scybola, so these contracts are signed so that people can live free of faith, that's the goal. So there are people in this country who are Catholics and who want to be able to live that faith, and that's why these contracts are signed, is whether, who else would be the goal of these contracts, so people don't live here that, I don't think, there are no Catholics in this country, there would be no such contracts, I guess. So that makes sense. And as for this second aspect of the State Audit, personally, I would never fear this State Audit, and as far as I know the same from my colleague Shuker, all of this must be recorded, attached and the report must be submitted. Therefore, there are rules that the Catholic Church in Croatia must also respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127269	Thank you for your response to my colleague Kovac. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kovac, you were right to say that in Germany, religious education is required in schools, not only is it mandatory but the Constitution and has guaranteed its obligation in regular teaching but parents can also, without reason, seek exemption. And that's where you were right when you said that children in that case have the option of selecting another subject. See, that's what I think is the problem with Croatian schools. In secondary schools, they have non-religious schools, the choice of choice between religion or ethics, but in primary schools children have no choice so that the parents of those non-religious children are actually very often due to the disorganization of school, left to the staircase, yard and space without content, and these children are in some way neither guilty nor obliged to label, if you want and disfellowshipped and feel badly especially at that early age. That's something we don't have solved like in Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127271	Thank you, fellow Voter. Answer, Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127272	I'm glad to hear that my colleague Voter agrees with me, it fills me with pleasure, and it makes my day, it's nice in life, when an opposition colleague commends someone from the ruling party, in this case from HDZ. But such a dear dear colleague, the first thing, means it's not a mandatory case in Croatia either, but an election case, right, so people choose whether or not they will, I can say they won't. Our children in Croatia who don't go to religious education, don't have to learn about religion and how schools are going to organise it now, it's a matter of school, it's not a matter of Croatia's contract with the Holy Table, it's organized by the Ministry of Science, there are inspections there, it can be reported, it's no problem, teaching is organized by means of a contract with the Vatican, the state has to ensure that, and for other children should have adequate, cultural, dignified treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127273	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127274	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovac, you've manipulated a lot in your debate, I don't know if it's intentional manipulation or whether you don't know the meaning of the word revision. So this is an initiative to review what's called the so-called audit. Vatican contracts not for their unilateral termination. So the revision itself implies opening talks with the Holy Table and that some things in these contracts may change in a common agreement. I ask you to explain to me that without these contracts, citizens in the Republic of Croatia couldn't live their faith like you said, it's really not clear to me how this could happen without these contracts. The second thing, also explain to me how you and your discussions are now protecting Catholics in the Republic of Croatia. The second thing, the Government of Zoran Milanovic was unable to ic into these initiatives, and it changed it because it was pulling Croatia out of the glib in which HDZ was inserted through the robbery of the Fimi Media and other things which is why your party is in court today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127275	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giujic. ... Please, dear colleague Shuker and dear colleague Đujic, I beg you nicely, I have warned my colleague Shuker, please, you have finished with the replica, we have an answer, dear colleague Kovac, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad that means when you get Mr. Djujic... If you're a manipulator, that means something he's doctored manipulation, he's very good at it, and I suggest we introduce this one category manipulator of the week, because to know who this is, who's very good at it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You could be even one of the lecturers in this subject of manipulation, manipulation in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, like this, the joke aside, you see that you wanted, as the SDP that made most of the Croatian government something to change you could have done, you did nothing, I'm glad you didn't do anything, because you had a boss who was still on that plan reasonable, that he understood it just as he understood that you needed to protect Croats in the BIH, because if he was party president, you wouldn't vote against the declaration of protection of Croats in BIH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127277	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Kovacac for his reply, and we are moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Why does the Republic of Croatia not ask the church to publish a financial report for funds obtained from the state? Why can't citizens see what funds are spent on being allocated from the budget and clearly that such transparency would allow citizens to see very clearly whether or not to finance the church through the Vatican Treaties. Of course, we must not forget the caritative role of the church, and clearly when there is no clear record of where money is spent, then many doubts are opened. Transparency is what citizens ask of us, so it is obvious that this transparency should also be applied to spending money from the church's budget. The contract between Croatia and the Vatican is bilateral agreements that cannot be broken only on the one hand, however, there should be will on both sides and what is strange to me, that HDZ does not listen to what is heard on the other side of the Adriatic Sea and what winds are blowing from the Vatican, because it is certain that the Vatican also wants these contracts to be revised in one way and to put them in a position to meet the situation which is now in Croatia. Because when these contracts were signed then here it was, let's say there were 300 thousand Croatian soldiers, now we have 40,000 of them, and the other same figures that are in the budget itself. Also in the Vatican Agreements. And clearly then HDZ doesn't want to open this issue now, because it will get one fierce answer from the altar and clearly that the HDZ at this point is not responding to any wave on that plan. However, counterpart Kovac is likely to hear me, there is something that will force HDZ and the government to open the Vatican Treaty issue, which is, the decision of the EU Court of Justice of Luxembourg, which is the EU's highest institution, and that court reached a verdict in Case C74-16 of 27 July 2017 in respect of the request of the Regional Administrative Court in Madrid, the Grand Court of Justice of the EU, ruled that tax relief and exemption granted to the Catholic Church could constitute illegal state support under the applicable rules of competition in the Union. And that is what will obviously force the Croatian government to sit with the Holy Table and raise the question of the compliance of the contract with the EU acquis. Just to explain what it was about, so the Church in Spain issued a hall in a Catholic school, and it charged a certain amount, then asked the Spanish State to pay back taxes, the tax office felt that it was not possible and that it was economic activity, which is subject to taxation, and that the Catholic Church had no right to do so. And the dispute ended at the European Court of Justice and the court ruled as I said, therefore, in a press release, the EU court stressed that it was a fundamental issue, whether exemptions from tax payments made possible by Member States to certain religious communities, including activities that do not have a strict religious purpose could be considered illegal support. The EU court ruled against the Spanish church because the activities taking place in the churches' premises of economic nature and renting a tax-free hall is a selective economic advantage for the school-run congregation and reduces the revenues of local administrations. That's very clear. The relevant provision shall be accompanied by an article. 3.5.1 EU operating contracts. The article also makes it very clear that Croatia will also have to review its agreements with the EU. Namely, in Art. Croatia's 10th Agreement with the Holy Table, in which we are talking about the economic part, states that the Catholic Church is considered a non-profit institution in relation to the tax system, however, it was added that the issue does not apply to the profit activities of the Church. Is this verdict supposed to affect our relationship with the Vatican Treaty and such a generous defense of colleagues on the left? Yes, because we must act in accordance with EU rules and the European Court of Justice has made it very clear that if the church has economic activities, it is then subject to tax. And there are only 3 ways the Croatian state can, how the Croatian state can resolve the issue. The first is a harmonised interpretation of the agreement, which means that it is simply said that both non-profit activity and profit are not subject to taxation, which is clearly not possible under our laws. If interpretation is not possible to resolve non-compliance, it is possible to agree and ratify changes in non-compliance with the provisions with the other side. And finally, if none of this is possible, Croatia is obliged to launch the review procedure of the Vatican Agreements in a reasonable time. That's the opinion and the professor of European law at law school, so it's not mine. It is the opinion and legal experts, therefore, now this much defense and attacks on colleagues from GLAS who have dared to say that it is time for things to change in Croatia and to be revised, now come to another clearing and under another light. The European Court of Justice has made it very clear what and how to do it. He made it very clear that the agreement that Spain had with the Holy Table was not in line with the EU acquis and that it should be revised. Now I wonder, colleagues from HDZ. No one obviously wants to replicate on this mine, so let me ask, so what do you think about it? What do you think of the EU Court's verdict and on the other hand, which is how you think we're spending huge funds, that it's about 17 billion so far, how much we've singled out the church, that it's about a billion and I'm asking you again. The European Court of Justice has made it very clear that it is necessary to revise the agreements because Spain has a very similar agreement as we do. The existing Vatican contracts were created at the time when they were created, today is a new time, we are in the European Union and it is clear that these contracts need to be revised and I don't see such a fierce defense now because, whether you want it in HDZ or not, in due course there will be a revision of the Vatican Agreements and we will express ourselves as it is said at the Second Vatican Council, there will be no colleagues of Radin, but I will say, if I can be exact in Italian, aggiornamento, so the Vatican Treaties need an extension. They need to be changed in a way that fits our situation, to respond to the Holy See and to remove it more from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127279	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We have several replicas, respected colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127280	President of the Parliament, dear colleague Mrsic. Not only did the European Court find that no one, not even the Catholic Church, can act commercially without paying taxes, but Pope Francis himself called on the Catholic Church to, in cases where they use property commercially, not ask for the privilege of tax exemption. Which just points to the fact that the Catholic Church itself is ready to revise certain practices, and I believe certain articles in certain contracts, which are not just, which are not good, which are not ethical and that it understands for itself that the time has come for these things to be put on the table. And that is why I cannot understand the argument that opening the debate in HS or the Croatian public is the borrowing of the Croatian government, to launch a dialogue with the Holy Table is something bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127281	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127282	A fellow Klisovic, that these are some new winds from the Vatican that need to be listened to and one way to run through silent diplomacy, but also another way to run this process that will be long, it will not be overnight, but it will lead to contracts in Croatia that correspond to the current state. No one is against the contract with the Holy Table, though. Relations should be well solved and resolved in a satisfactory way and what is quite certain, as I would like to say, that the revision of the Vatican Treaties is not and must not be divided into the left and right, it is a matter of the Croatian state and it must be a consensus of both. It is clear to me why HDZ colleagues are now alarmingly afraid to cross over their mouths at all that it is necessary to revise the Vatican Agreements, and this is still the basis of the European Court's decision, because the elections are coming and obviously they do not want to be cursed from the altar and to be called off the altar to behold, they were the ones who allowed the Vatican Treaties to be revised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127283	Thank you. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127284	Dear colleague Mrsic, who is a man if he does not question, and who are parliamentary representatives if he does not question everything that is signed, all that is under way and why all this is not subject to review. You mentioned these 17 billion in 20, an average of 20 years, which means it's about 700 million kuna a year. Half of that amount would be enough to resolve family pensions in the Republic of Croatia, which are completely different from in all of civilised Europe and for the survival of families and people of old age and safety, I would expect the Catholic Church's social science Congo to support the family pensions solution, not that the current Government simply rejects that solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127285	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127286	Yes, a colleague of Hrelja, it is true, it is one figure that has been estimated from the signing of the contract to the present day by the Croatian state paid to the Catholic Church and I would only mention that there is no equality about it, so here from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia since 2014, 2015 and 2016 I had this data, that the Catholic Church has received a total of about a billion, so it is only a transfer from the budget, the Serbian Orthodox Church 27 million, the Islamic Community 8 million, the Evangelical Church 2 million etc. And it's just saying that we need to have transparency, to know where these funds are being spent, no one thinks it should be taken to the Catholic Church because it's a matter of contract but we need to revise these contracts to see what they spend and how much they spend, then it certainly gives because without transparency, citizens don't have much trust in either government or politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127287	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127288	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you asked your HDZ colleagues how they feel about the European Court's ruling. Since no one there has raised a line for you, I'll tell you what they think. So the HDZ colleagues on the European Court's verdict think that the verdict violates the relations of the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, think that Catholic believers in Croatia can no longer live their faith because of this verdict, that the European Court does not appreciate what the Catholic Church has done to create a Croatian state that the European Court of Justice has very probably not wanted and wonder why the European Court of Human Rights has not reached that verdict at the time of Zoran Milanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127289	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127290	Yes, the agreement between Spain and the Holy See was signed prior to Spain's accession to the EU, and it provides a number of tax reliefs for the Catholic Church in Spain. And yes, it is true that the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU allows, if international agreements are signed as before membership, to remain in force even if they are contrary to European law, however, this does not mean that Member States are already on the basis of a provision that they need to comply with their agreements with the European acquis, they cannot initiate a procedure to address these discrepancies. GLAS colleagues have also launched this and is now on the other side of the attack to bring down the Catholic Church in Croatia. I also believe that the Catholic Church in Croatia would like to take it off the agenda once and settle it in a good, transparent way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127291	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127292	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like this debate to begin with the financing of religious communities with a verse that has been particularly in my mind. That's from 2. Corinthians 8.9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that although he was rich, he became poor because of you, that you may become rich by his poverty. This verse certainly speaks of Jesus being rich but of deliberately becoming poor so that we could become rich. Here he speaks, speaks to the believers, the believers represent the Church, the Church is a community of believers not a building of stone or bricks or any other material. And the question arises about what kind of wealth Jesus here is. The apostle Paul speaks. Is it this earth's wealth, whether it's money, whether it's a real estate empire, or whether it's some other kind of wealth? By reading the Bible, I have come to the conclusion that the wealth the apostle Paul speaks of is not earthly nature, and this among other things stems from Jesus ’ words at Matthew 6:19, listen to what Jesus says. Do not gather for yourselves treasures in the land where the moth and the rust destroy them, where the thieves break and steal; gather for yourselves treasure in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys it. Where the thieves do not break and steal, for where your treasure is, there is also your heart. What questions are raised whether the heart of religious officials living in a difficult abundance, who receive hundreds of millions of kuna each year from the state, is their heart in this world, is their heart related to material things, or is it to this spiritual treasure, which the apostle Paul tells us about is Jesus offering us. Unfortunately, from everything that comes up, I came to the next conclusion, which is that the state does not finance religious communities because it loves the Gospel, because it cares about Jesus ’ message already exclusively to support the Church, that is the whole story. The State and the Church are in an alliance which is conceived in a way that the state that the Church is money and the Church is silent in return. The church in return is silent, ladies and gentlemen. And the question arises how sincere is the opposition's wish today, including from GLAS and SDP, that these contracts be revised. In my court, their honesty is questionable or doubtful for one key reason, both were in power, they had the President of the State, the Parliament and the Government and never entered into the subject of revising the Treaty with the Vatican. That's important information. And often it happens that opposition advocates call power for something they themselves did when they were in power and what I want to tell the citizens is that the Living Wall is an authentic option because it advocates an identical policy from its beginning to today and will advocate in the future, unfortunately, the basic message of the Gospel today is completely pushed aside and today it does not interest anyone. And what is Jesus ’ preaching? Jesus never asked us for money. You nowhere in the New Testament will see that Jesus asked one single person for money for any kind of religious service, but never at all, and today, unfortunately, the churches charge sacraments, even the crisis, or what they consider to be the giving of the Holy Spirit, which I sincerely doubt, and the delusion that the Holy Spirit through the sacrament of the crisis or the paying of the crisis can come for money, one great, great delusion that some people have even lost their head in the Bible. What I'm trying to tell you is that each of us must give Jesus our heart, not our money, and that the commandments that he gave that we must stick to them. Unless we stick to them, even if we receive all the treasures of this world, Jesus says that we have lost everything or that everything has been in vain for us. Because HDZ leads the country in a certain way, i.e., in my court to lead it to ruin, to systematically lie to people and to carry out the worst legal robbery that is possible, which is that it gives foreign creditors billions of kuna a year between 30 and 35 on a debt that can't be paid back, or that it leads such a policy to give rich people even more, and it takes what little they have to the poor. I believe that this party, or this policy, has been deeply marred, and unfortunately, I doubt, at the end of the day that the HDZ members will see the gentleman in a positive light, means that he will rejoice in his arrival. So today, here, I appeal to every council representative who still fails to give up his heart to Jesus or not, whether to stop committing sin or to continue with him, I invite him to stop doing sin and of course, they will probably say, so how, how, so that's impossible, how, that man leaves sin, so in the Bible Jesus says that he can free us from sin, means whatever sin you have, whatever it was, whether it was lying, swearing, stealing, pornography, any sin, Jesus says that he can free you from that sin because he says that he beat evil and said when he was raised to the cross, he says, now the prince of this world will be cast out, and at that moment the evil has lost power and all power is committed to Jesus and he in his power can free each one of you, give him freedom, real freedom and that freedom and that freedom and joy that he can give you, no one institution can give you. Although the priests tell you that they can grant you forgiveness of sin, I must tell you that they lie to you, they cannot forgive other sins, it is only God who can forgive sins and many people have been deceived and died in the faith that they are saved, and they are not because they have never actually been turned, their hearts have never changed, they have not truly repented. Some of the HDZ say they don't confess anymore, but I don't confess either because it's a pointless thing, but what's crucial is that you reject sin, that's the whole point of the story. God does not ask us to go to the priest for confession, but not to live in sin because there will ultimately be only two groups, says in the Bible that one dies in sins, and one of us dies in the Lord and we have that choice before us, and do not think and trust in this treacherous wealth that you now have because it is passing away, neither of us will take a swear with us into the grave. All those of us sitting here today, even those who aren't here today, we're all going to die one day, it's only a matter of time before. Remember that this life and this world is fleeting, and the world the Gospel speaks of is eternal, and do not be fooled by the thought that because you were giving state money to the church that it would help you because the grace of God cannot be bought, forgiveness cannot be bought money. The only blood of Jesus Christ can save you from condemnation because he died for our sins, that is, what the Gospel says, and that is what should be preached every Sunday in churches, but unfortunately, it is not preached. It is not preached because that original Gospel is replaced by a whole series of rituals that instead of attracting people to Christ, draw people away from Christ and actually turn the people from the way of salvation. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127293	...to a respected colleague. Next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've heard a lot today, and I have to admit that I've been surprised by many of those things that I've heard, but the fact that this kind of lack of, unargumented initiative is backed up by completely incorrect data, I've really not seen it in the House yet, and I've seen a lot of things, so I'm just going to try to deny some of the things that are listed. Mrsic mentioned the EU court ruling and gave an interpretation quite this interestingly, he said he consulted with legal experts, and I know which of the departments of the European and Public Law Faculty in Zagreb, but apparently he did not understand what they were trying to say to him. But by chance, here I am, accidentally I just published along with another professor. The Faculty of Law, Fran Stanic, a scientific article in the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, published last year on this subject, so let's say that we know something about it. So what the Court of Justice of the EU has said in this practice is that the church can be an economic entity if some of its activities are carried out commercially, means if it rents some property, if it provides educational services that, where it charges a real market price, etc., then and only then can the Catholic Church be an economic entity and only in these cases the rules on state aid apply, and that is a consistent position in hundreds of other EU courts. And it is nothing controversial, that part is not questionable at all, but it does not apply to mental care, it does not apply to the basic activities of the Catholic Church, so neither to all the educational activities that the church conducts, which it does not charge, such as the Croatian Catholic University, for example, which does not charge tuition. So, if we look at the activities of the Catholic Church in Croatia, a huge percentage of them do not fall within that definition, and the European right to them is not applicable. And contracts, so-called. Vatican contracts do not affect this in any way, nor are they in any way contrary to EU law. And that part is completely clear and unequivocal, and it is not a revolutionary new verdict, so I recommend, and I recommend that Mrssić inform her a little about the things he's saying, but this is not the first time that he's talking about things he doesn't know too much about. Furthermore, the initiative itself, if something shows this initiative shows all the hypocrisy of those who have gone with it, so on the one hand we have left, liberal, advanced, which is the well-being of Croatian societies and individuals only think about, and look at their last two initiatives in the assembly, which they have launched thanks to the business opportunity given to them by the ruling majority. So the last "home-ready" greeting initiative, now this. So these are the priorities of the opposition in the assembly, so the attacks on the church as much as they're trying to get out that it's not going back to II. World war. So these are the priorities of the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, this is what their actions show, as they would say, you will judge them, not by word. And that shows enough actually how much today's opposition is in our assembly of barrens, how much there is no idea and what topics they chew. And of course, here we have only one attempt to fight on the left to get on the remains of the SDP which is in a state that some manage to draw points and perhaps get some mandate in the European Parliament, but I think it's obvious to everyone. It also mentioned some things that had nothing to do with the Vatican so-called. The Vatican Treaties, for example the issue of state audit, the issue of religious science in primary schools, whether there is an alternative or not. Well that's what we've already said, so it has nothing to do with Vatican school, it has nothing to do with contracts with the Holy Table, how the church, how the school will organise classes, whether the students will have a primary school, because in high school there's an alternative, whether there's going to be a hole in the program, whether there's going to be an alternative, some other activity or so on, so it has nothing to do with the revision of the contract. And the revision of the contract will in no way affect it. Furthermore, the issue of state audits, and nowhere in the contracts, does it say that, that the state audit cannot be done in the affairs of the church, nor does it say anywhere that the church is reporting, which is also proud. So all these arguments that strengthen those, which try to explain why they're going into contract review, actually have nothing to do with contracts. Furthermore, you were mentioned a huge amount, so first said a billion kuna, when it was denied and it turned out that almost, almost half the amount was then it started to say that without this huge amount, and then it was taken a few years in a row that it would sound more likely that the Croatian budget would flourish, it could finance pensions, I don't know what. So just to understand order of size, what stands out for the church, including education and believers and the maintenance of cultural monuments that are public good, well all of us are less than 1% of the Croatian budget. So, saying that now the revision of the Vatican Treaties will bring salvation to the Croatian budget is a little funny, and especially when it comes to those whose actions have led to the government's having to pay 2.8 billion kuna of guarantees, guarantees that have come to the Oilies. And then those who were so easy to deal with back then with state property are now diving crocodile tears for less than 1% of the state budget. Well, I mean, I think this is really funny. So, this initiative concerns only Catholic churches, as 19 religious communities have already been said in Croatia, so all those that are relevant in any way practically by number of believers have similarly solved contracts with countries. This initiative applies only to the Catholic Church, so I ask if you realize that if you treat the Catholic Church with 90% of believers differently and worse let's say, reduce, give less rights than you give to other religious communities that you violate the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This is discrimination means if you treat one another in one way you must all who are in the same and comparable position treated in the same way, otherwise you have, otherwise you simply do not comply with the Constitution, but then say so, means any initiative on the revision of the Vatican Treaties, the change in the relationship between the church and the state in that sense affects all other religious communities in the Republic and that should be clearly said and that should be transparent. Furthermore, the question of religious science, we see a culturekampf, we see a cultural war unfortunately by certain left forces in Croatian society for the past few years and that is what we see. This was seen at the Faculty of Philosophy where the fight continues where the law is broken in repeated ways, etc., people are not extended, people are not extended contracts that are not at will, and those who are willing by the ruling majority there are extended, etc., etc. So I am not surprised that actually the left hand in the Croatian Parliament is the issue of education and religion, because it is a struggle for the hearts and souls of future generations. The fact is that when you look at the demographic situation of Europe, you see that the left is falling, their voters are getting smaller and they have to sort of infiltrate the school system, so that they can actually regenerate through it and that's their goal and that's what they should say openly, but I believe that this time as well as in many other initiatives won't work. The question of religious science, meaning that this issue in Europe is not at all controversial, means in all Europe other than France, Slovenia, Albania, there is some form of religious science in schools, even in France in several departments, which is an example of secularity. So we have something that is generally accepted throughout Europe except for, say, Albania, but in Croatia, it is problematic in which more than 90% of the Roman Catholics are shown. Then I really wonder what the real motives are for what's going on here and that's the key question. We still have an invitation to Holy Father Paul. Interestingly, those who do not have much to do with the Church have suddenly become the greatest experts in interpreting his opinion. Yeah, well, it's like they've got a crystal ball, so they know what he's gonna do. Because so far, the Holy Father has in no way questioned the contract between Croatia and the Holy See. In no way, but apparently the GLAS colleagues have a crystal ball, so they premise that he would do it if they started it. So, I mean, when you look at it that way, I think it's really a little bit of a joke. So, let me close the story. This initiative is completely non-serious. It serves to score cheap political points in the legacy struggles, in the war for SDP's legacy on the left, let's say. In that sense, it's legitimate, they can sell their voters the stories they want, but it's up to all of us to explain the truth, to bring out the facts and thus to allow them to fail. And I don't think it will work, and I think the results will be seen in the European Parliament elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127295	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, fellow Sokol, you have made it very clear why even the EU court rulings are not in conflict with these contracts, why there is no real explanation to come to the revision of these contracts, at least we couldn't hear them today, but in fact, it's probably not that important because, as you mentioned, the very intensity of this proposal was to collect some political points. So there is no argumentary debate, some proposal that is truly based on some facts but exclusively that political motivation, in a pre-election time, to collect some political points. And it wasn't the intention to make this argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127297	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127298	Thank you very much. Well, yes, my colleague Stier, I agree with the argument, as my colleague Reiner said, that the ambitions weren't too great. But I am saying, when the judgments of European courts are already cited, I would like to take one verdict to the European Court of Human Rights, which explicitly said that the particular question of religious science is not contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, but is in the free assessment of the state whether it will introduce it or not and in what way. It's a free country. In other words, the existing legal framework is as it is, in particular, a contract, neither contrary to the real EU nor to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe, and the issues of application, practical application such as whether or not some substitute content will be found at school or not, it is a matter of application, we can discuss this. And that's not bad to talk about. But not in such a cheap political way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127299	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127300	Dear fellow Sokol, you said the initiative was filed by those who had little to do with the Church. Please tell me, because I'm a member of this club too, I represent HSU here, I went to church and made all the sacraments when half of this left side of me didn't go to church at all, so I ask you to define to me, who are these people who have no connection with the church, or only those who advocate special interests that may be deeply political, rather than religious, have the right to talk about it and decide. I think we're all afraid and there are acquired positions here, and there are models that can be applied, there must be, but there's no will for us to look for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127301	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127302	Thank you, colleagues of Hrelja, so when I read the explanation where it says that the Catholic Church is an active and politically strong participant of these and such exclusive discussions that destroy the tissues of Croatian society. So, when the promoters apparently claim that the Catholic Church is destroying the fabric of Croatian society was logical to assume that these people are not exactly considered directly part of the Church, this means that my conclusion was based on what is written here, and I am not at all going into counting blood cells or anything like that, I say, I am not dealing with it, I think that this is what those who are doing first, who are pulling the story of "For Home Ready" and now with this, are doing exactly the deepening of these contradictions in Croatian society. And I think it's just the works in the Parliament that show who's working the divisions and who's working against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127303	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127304	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, if we go back to the historical perspective, we will realize that these contracts are concluded as I said on the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the first years of Croatian statehood. It was a time when the Holy See as a subject of international law, advocated Croatian independence and played a constructive role. In such conditions, of course, the negotiations on practical things that were important for the Catholic Church in Croatia were also on our side. And once, that kindness went too far from the possibilities of our budget or in general state finances and how to regulate the state and society in this country. But here, we have the Vatican Treaties, they are the fruit of the circumstances of the time they were concluded, they have played their part, but we can also say today as representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this high home and in the Assembly, that the circumstances have changed and I don't see why they would be afraid to say, especially if we have a relationship with one friendly subject of international law as if, internationally, this is being treated to open a debate on issues that bother us and which may be welcomed in a good way on the other hand, meaning, from our contractual partner. Therefore, I see no adverse consequences, no diplomatic, no political if we open up with another party to the issues that plague us. And the questions that plague us are not religious issues, they are not questions about how good or bad a Catholic is, as could be heard today in the debate. So, they have nothing to do with spirituality, they are actually practical issues for which the state is competent, so let's be clear, in every Croatian party, and even in this parliamentary one, there are a handful of members who are practically believers and no one really has any desire or need to reckon in such a way either with the Catholic Church, whether with religion or with religion. I repeat once again, it's only about those practical things that are in the jurisdiction of the state. And if the revision is possible, is that it shows at the end and here a cited Italian example where the Italian state has succeeded in reopening negotiations with the Holy Table and changing certain solutions, then it could also be the Republic of Croatia. So, what practical things are this about? What I've already mentioned, this is primarily about introducing order into state finances. So, the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia is funded from the state budget, if we can according to the data available to us, it is about 900 million kuna, without what local administration and self-government spend on reflecting sacral objects or HRT on the creation of a religious programme. So every beneficiary of state budgets would have to have the same obligation, I mentioned the submission of financial reports, we heard today, it only works for the self-initiatively Dubrovnik archbishop, so if it works, why not all of them, in order to have one transparent spending of funds and thus the Catholic Church would be perceived and equal to everyone else who uses funds, and not as some privileged institution that, behold, no financial reports should be submitted, nor should the state audit be made. Another practical issue to be discussed here in the Croatian public, is this system of financing the Catholic Church, only through the state budget, the most optimal model of financing? We heard, there are different funding models in Europe, whether it's paid or not. Church tax by declared believers, whether donations to the church are voluntarily paid. So this is not the only model how the church can be financed, and in particular the doubts are growing since the percentage of what is set out in the Republic of Croatia is much more than what is set out in other Catholic countries. What needs to be defined as well, and the practical thing is, the state's clear obligations towards the Catholic Church in terms of the return of the property that was taken from it. I mean, after 22 years, since the contracts were concluded that we haven't been able to write down all the assets that are subject to such a return, we haven't been able to set deadlines, we haven't been able to determine the amounts needed to pay for that property that can't be returned for physical reasons. So these are things that obviously need to be defined either through contracts or through certain communication with the Vatican. Next, what are the more practical things to define? So any possible discrimination should be eliminated, so if the HTV editor for a religious programme must also be confirmed by the Catholic Church, then they do not have the same other religious organizations in the Republic of Croatia. So again we have equal and unequal. If the schools of Catholic, high schools which are defacto private schools are funded, and other entities that also provide this service on the Croatian market, can't get that kind of support from the state, then we put schools and colleges in an unequal relationship, and we are a market economy and we should all have equal rights and obligations on the market. The recruitment and promotion of teachers in schools go by other criteria than other regular teachers who work at school. It is certainly not something that is good, in my opinion, because simply one group of teachers who are also funded from the state budget are privileged to other teachers who work together with them in the same school institution, therefore, to the public institution. Employment goes past the principal, past the regular recruitment process, in fact, the bishop determines who will be a believer. Here are also the judgments of the court, the European Court of Human Rights, which clearly states that freedom of religion means freedom, religion in the fullest sense of the word, that man can confess his faith, but also means that no one can put you in an unfavourable position unless you want to express your religious identity or relation to a particular religion or religion. The documents issued by the public authorities also states that the judgment should not contain any religious elements which may lead either to a privileged or unprivileged position. Signing up for credentials in public documents, testimony, must be one such element. The obligation also stemming from the Vatican Treatys that the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia must inform the church authorities in advance when an investigation is launched against a particular priest or another, persons from a church hierarchy, about criminal acts, is something that other citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have, and can also be interpreted as a privilege or one element of inequality in relation to other citizens living in this country. Another practical element is the question of textbooks. If the state should have a monopoly on the control of the content of textbooks taught in public schools, then there is no reason for the textbooks on which the teachers teach them to, not to go through the same procedure as in the state institutions of supervision as the other textbooks do. This once again gives the impression that there are different arches that there is therefore a specific privileged status for textbooks used for religious science. So these are all issues of practical nature that need to be resolved in which the state has its jurisdiction. So, all the time we shouldn't be focusing the debate on the role of the Catholic Church in society, in religion, etc., is we going to lose that point, which is why this issue is opening up in public debate in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127305	I thank my colleague Klisovic, we have two replicas of dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127306	Thank you very much, colleague Klisovic, you were deputy foreign minister, and I listened to a fellow Sokola who relativises the European Court's ruling because it is very clear that there is a similar formulation in the Croatian contract with the Holy Table as does the Spanish Treaty with the Vatican. It is clear that if something is not sufficiently formulated that negotiations should then be initiated to change that item and this item is very clear, it, if viewed on one hand, makes it impossible for the Catholic Church to have a profitable activity, and, on the other hand, if you interpret it in another way, enables it, therefore, if it makes it impossible for it to comply with the European acquis, then it is untaxable, and if it allows it then it has to be paid tax on it, so it is very clear here that it should be treated according to the EU verdict, or.../incomprehensible/... The EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127307	I thank my colleague Mrsic, my colleague Klisovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127308	You are right fellow Mrsic, in international law not only in European law, all those who enjoy certain tax privileges, and these are diplomats when they are accredited in a foreign country, if they start to deal with luxuriant, commercial, profitable activities, for this segment of their business, they have no immunity from taxation. As it applies to diplomats, so applies to the church, so it applies to any other institution or individual who enjoys a certain privilege under national, international or European law for certain reasons justified. It cannot abuse these privileges when engaged in luxuriant, commercial, profitable activity. Well, I just cited in the debate that Pope Francis himself understood that and invited the church in all states not to abuse the privileges that were given for other matters, not for commercial matters, that the church treats one ethical the way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127309	Thank you very much, thank you, dear colleague Klisovic, next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127310	Dear counterpart Klisovic, this is a self-initiative, and I think too much passion is being spent on discussing the launch of this initiative and adopting conclusions on the possible launch of a contract review procedure with St. St. I think this review can be good for both us and the Holy See and for the Church in Croatia because who says it will be at a loss if new more transparent models are found. The fact is that the times in which we live today are significantly different than the times when these contracts are concluded, ratified in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, Croatia was never again deindustrated, never so old, never so abandoned, with so many disfellowshipped people and poor people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127311	Thank you, colleague Klisovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127312	You are a true colleague of Hrelja, I also think opening a dialogue with the Holy Table on these issues would in fact only strengthen and improve the perception of the Catholic Church in Croatia. Because if there are certain practical things that I was talking about, which can be considered unfair or discriminatory then it is also good for the church itself to try to fix them and thus strengthen de facto its status among Croatian citizens further. And that is how to those who believe, to those who may not or may not belong to other confesions. Wouldn't Papa Francis himself go out with an initiative to pay taxes when the church uses its property or otherwise performs as, as an economic operator, that it doesn't consider it right. Therefore, there are certain practical things in our contracts that could improve, and I think they would be good for both the Catholic Church and the Republic of Croatia. And that's what I believe is the motive of this initiative, not to be diminished, called, criticised, it's not in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127313	Thank you, dear colleague Klisovic, for the next debate, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so he loves his neighbor as himself, and it's easy to love a friend rather than love and enemies, he does well and those who hate you, is it so terrible that our children in our schools learn about these messages of Jesus, that's this joyous news of Jesus, do we have to get her out of public space, out of public schools, so much bothers, such messages, that they have to be in the house or church, in the sacristy, that they can't be in public space, in public school. Why shouldn't our children learn that at school if they want to, if that's what their parents want? This is Jesus ’ good news or the Gospel, and in that very word is also a part of this dilemma. Because until the first Christians the Gospel was emperor, yes, so it was a cult to the state of ancient Rome, the emperor had personified that state, and therefore it was declared that he and the state had to control everything. All public space. And he sent when he made some decisions, his... public markets to make those decisions known to the Emperor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it was the King's Gospel or the Latin Evangelium. And then these early Christians fought for the space of freedom, and they gave that message to Jesus, the name of the Gospel, that Jesus ’ Gospel also existed. That there's one space that shouldn't be dominated by the state. And that he has the right to speak in public space about these messages, and that's why they were persecuted. That's why fighting for public space by Christians was actually a struggle for freedom. On this very trail, if this initiative is already coming from a party that attributes itself to the liberal prefix, one of the capital thinkers of the liberal thought, Alexis De Tocqueville, has emphasized this role of Christian religion for freedom in society. He was just saying that without this Christian religion in public space, there is no real freedom in society and no real democratic society. Furthermore, those in Croatia who today call themselves liberals quote Tocqueville, no. At least we didn't hear him today. If they're studying it, we didn't get that impression today. Today we got the impression that there is another matrix, one that wants to emphasize that the state has to control every space, that out of public space here, and this message of Jesus has no right to be made public. That students have no right to learn about these messages at school. I can only do it at home or in sacristy. But not in public space. Perhaps when not mentioned in Tocqueville, another ideologist Karl Marx was mentioned at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy today. Well, while it is, let's mention something. And Marx had some good thoughts, for example. when he said history was repeated at the beginning as a tragedy and later as a farce. And this is the word with this proposal, he's pure farce. Pure farce because if you were serious, then the people who suggested this and were in position would have done it then. They had four years to do it. And they didn't, they didn't run it because they knew it would be unreasonable. Why do it now? Why do they want to push it now? It's only to get some political points. To perhaps strengthen their presence on the left political spectrum. And that's actually the point of this. We can't seriously treat a proposal like this that doesn't even have legal arguments. Which has only one daily-political purpose. And when that is the case, then really a man wonders if a new force or one force in a political space wants to deepen its support with the electoral body, in this case the left electoral body, at least it would be good to have some political imagination, political imagination, not to get some old ideological idea out of the naphthaline. And that's why colleagues and colleagues, from this I see a proposal that is not at all justified or justified, it's not something we have to be afraid of but we all know that even the promoters are actually aware that this is not going to be anything, not just because the ruling majority doesn't want it because they wanted to do it, they had a chance and they didn't. You can see from this one story that's pretty banal, that one read story, pretty basic, not too sophisticated, like I said, just one big farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127315	I thank my esteemed colleague, Davor Evey Stier. We have replicas, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127316	Thank you very much. I'll try to recite quickly how many of them I get. So Tocqueville is talking about the role of the Church in society not in the state. And here we are talking about the role of the Church in state policy. Secondly, you said and Marx had some good ideas, sure, they all had some good ideas, the Church had some good ideas but they ruined it by depleting that this ideology as an ideology must be taught at school, and I think the Church of People understands the dangers that lie in it. Why didn't you do it when you were in power? You're criticizing us yourself that this is too soon, so it's too soon now, and what happened five years ago or 20 years ago, then it was extremely early. You want political points, it seems to me the most unusual observation, you keep telling yourself 90% of the people in Croatia are Catholics, what political points, on this one you don't get political points but someone has to start talking, and we've already started talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127317	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Pusic, answer, colleague Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127318	Comrade Pusic, you have just confirmed with this replica where the problem is. So that space of society, that space of freedom, doesn't necessarily have to be controlled by the state. Why should the state control everything? Is that ideology? All within the state, nothing outside the state, that's what Benito Mussolini said. So let us let the space that society and the power of society, and if parents want, in schools, in public space, to public schools, to learn Jesus ’ messages, the state should prohibit it. It is their right to forbid, to throw these messages of Jesus out of school. That's what you're looking for, not what Alexis Detokville was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127319	I thank my colleague Stier for his reply, the next replica of the esteemed colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127320	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed colleague of Stier, you spoke of the vernacular, I would only once again point out that the religious class in Croatian schools is an electoral object and basically the parents of the choice in which they want to raise their children, and so some MPs have decided for their children and decided for themselves and admired their faith, with their sacraments here today, and then defend the initiative which is about the same church, whose members and who practically brought them up, says this way, that it causes impatience and hatred to others, to destroy the tissues of Croatian society, to send messages of exclusive hatred and misunderstanding to others, especially otherwise. So here's what's in itself going on here, what's the real question, what's the purpose and purpose of this initiative today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127321	Thank you, colleague Stier's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127322	Yeah, buddy, that's exactly what it's all about, trying to control the whole area, that the state, of course, is being run by politicians, so politicians have to dictate absolutely everything. We can't put a space of freedom for society, for social groups, for families, for parents, no. Politicians will tell children what they need, not parents. It's a liberal thought, it's promoting freedom, not exactly the opposite, exactly the opposite. What's the point of this? Yes, the goal is political points, not to get most of this, but not to fight for most, but to one part of the cake inside the left. That is their intensity, but they are doing damage and sharing Croatian society, and that is certainly not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127323	I thank my colleague Stier for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Petar Škorić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127324	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear fellow Stier, I agree with you, that this initiative is an ordinary farce, but I am also pleased that such a farce has come here to the Croatian Parliament and here, I commend my colleagues from the opposition, where however, by preparing this topic they began to study both the Holy Scriptures and the first and second Vatican Council and that we have heard many things that we know that our colleagues on the other hand did not know, until 20 years ago when this law was passed and when we essentially concluded a contract with the Holy Table. Unfortunately, however, the messages that you have brought here, the messages of love, therefore, we do not see them coming from the other side, but it is precisely the aim of this initiative, of further dispersion, of opening up ideological world affairs, which are deeply shared by Croatian society, of many things that are not mentioned here also about the conditions and actions of the Catholic Church and in the former communist regime taken away from property, of property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127325	Thank you, dear colleague Škorić, for your response, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127326	Yes colleague, a lot of this property has been taken away and today we have heard that we need to arrange and that area, it would mean in principle, especially if someone goes from some liberal premium to respect the right of private ownership, if it is not already quoted... I guess John Locke who is the father of liberalism is also accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this property in large part of the day is not returned today, it should return as soon as possible, not to say that someone could open the compensation issue, which has been making it impossible for owners to use that property for decades. So even when it opens up the issues of these proper ways of editing material relationships, then this aspect should also be expected to open this aspect in these relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127327	I thank my esteemed colleague Stier for his reply, we move on to the next debate, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127328	I would like to thank Mr. President, my colleagues and my fellow MPs, The secretary of state, therefore, has asked a rhetorical question today, which is either the motive or the purpose of this initiative, for the revision of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, so I will begin with it. Which is the goal and the motive, however, I will try to give my opinion eventually. Why, because it is clear to the promoter, and it is clear in today's debate, on the one hand and on the other hand, that this initiative does not seem to succeed, first of all, because there is no basis for it, because the basic preconditions have not been obtained, that it could even enter into negotiations on the amendment, that is, the revision of these contracts, nor have the social circumstances changed, nor has political will changed among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, nor has the relationship of power in this House changed compared to the time when... Contracts ratified, nor actually has any initiatives and I believe neither the wishes on the side, on the other hand, therefore, the Vatican to enter into the revision of these agreements, and then the question is actually asked why, therefore, this initiative, and especially when it is seen that article, which several of my colleagues on this side were talking about, which also gives no arguments for, in support of and support of this initiative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, there are four contracts, among other things, a contract that treats education, culture and education and how we had the opportunity to hear, is mostly for applicants of this initiative a problem, therefore, a religious teaching in our schools. However, you should visit that article. 1st century 2 of this Treaty on Catholic Religion in public schools and religious education in public preschools is prescribed that Catholic religion in public, primary and secondary schools is a mandatory subject for those students who choose it, therefore, not for all, and that the choice of Catholic religious science as a mandatory subject is made by parents and parents and students if the student is over 15 years old. So it's quite something else compared to, so on this one, we just had a chance to hear from the presentation of fellow Stier, and from Mrs. Pusic, who is still on the Committee on Foreign Policy today, and even now, indirectly, in fact said this, what is being imposed, in fact, creates resistance, probably referring to the subject of the basis of Marxism and socialist self-government imposed by the decree, seems to me in the early 1970s after one speech by then-President Josip Broz Tito, however, this was then imposed and was an obligation for all. So a drastic difference compared to what we're talking about today. So, further when it comes to the Treaty of Legal Affairs between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, then they are troubled, so state holidays or some religious holidays as state holidays. Again, they were not imposed, neither by the Vatican nor by the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia, they were adopted into HS as state holidays. Why? Because it is an interest and political will over, at least 80% of the people of the Republic of Croatia who have declared themselves to the Catholics and, of course, other religious communities that therefore enjoy the right to celebrate their religious holidays as state holidays. Furthermore, there is also a problem with the third Childcare Treaty, therefore, in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, and then there is actually an incorrect claim that says: “The contract was signed at a time when the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia were actively engaged in defence in the Croatian Homeland War and counted up to 300,000 members. Today's Croatian Army and the police have a significantly smaller number of members, below 40,000 together."Knowing that these contracts, therefore, were put together on 19.12.1996, means, over a year after the war ended, in fact this claim, which was made under this initiative, does not stand at all. So, then, if I wasn't going further into dissectioning these very points of this, so to speak, these initiatives, this war, because obviously there are no arguments within there that would support this initiative, I would now ask the question again, what is the purpose of this proposal, and what is this, to say, what is the writer going to say? We today who, as I say, have expressed ourselves against this initiative, the revision of these contracts, I am not defending contracts because they are not threatened because, as I said, there is no basis for them to be audited, but we defend the dignity of this country as a country that respects its international obligations and defends the dignity of a state that would enters something without the prospect of doing so simply wasting time, energy, and resources, etc. Furthermore, we defend the values shared by most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, including the EU. Let us, therefore, go from Lisbon to the south to Tallinn and Helsinki in the north, from Dublin to the west to Moscow in the east, in the center of every major place or city we will find a church, a Christian church. So Christianity, and in considerable part Catholicism, is the foundation, therefore, of European culture and of the European regulation. So the question is, in fact, in this initiative, in this warring, there is also an answer to what might be, therefore, motives and goals, so, these initiatives, so I will re-quote what a couple of colleagues quoted from, so, these initiatives of GLAS and those signatories who have, therefore, co-signed, and this is 30 advocates from this other side of the assembly, says this: "In the end, the question of meeting the sending of the Catholic Church to the Republic, in a country that is divided, in which every political discrepancy causes impatience and hatred to others, the Catholic Church is an active and politically classified participant of these and such exclusive debates that destroy the tissues of Croatian society, instead of adiving love and peace, all the messages of acceptance are common, heard as well as the messages of the truth, so we have read this truth and read the truth, so that the truth of the words of the law of the law is true, and the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the Court, and of the law of the law, and of the law. Also, as we had the opportunity to hear, here in the debate of fellow Stier, another conclusion is that this is actually a policy initiative that was launched in order, to say the better visibility of a relatively new party, especially now ahead of these European elections. This initiative certainly won't harm anything, except, here, I probably won't be able to protect at the beginning of El Classica, between Real and Barcelona, but I'll probably see most of it. However, we were wasting energy and time on... A debate that actually doesn't seem to succeed, instead of dealing with much more important issues for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127329	I thank you, the replica of dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127330	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleague Ljubic. Since the Constitutional Court refuses to show itself and the Assembly has essentially ratified these contracts, I believe it should also discuss the possible revision of these contracts. But it can only be discussed with quality analysis, which this proposal is definitely not. Most of these issues and implementation problems can be solved by a simple agreement between the state and the Catholic Church, without the need to amend the treaty, by a change that is complex, which is demanding and which requires agreement between both sides and therefore I agree with you that this initiative is both unnecessary and unnecessary and even malicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127331	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127332	Well, I agree completely with you fellow Mikulić, and even I think in my replica or debate, I can't remember exactly what my colleague Klisovic said. So, even with a contract like this, actually, the beneficiaries of the budget can actually report as an institution of the Republic of Croatia, and without obligation. However, here it needs to be clear, given that this initiative is based and focuses on the financial effects of these agreements. It is necessary to clearly highlight this socially beneficial, educational, educational role of the Catholic Church, which even today, as we face a certain one, so to speak, new immigration, the first to react and preserve the identity of our fellow Americans, here in the countries where they go, and this was done during the war, and let us not forget, the great humanitarian contribution of the creation of the Republic of the Catholic Church and of the world, according to humanitarian organisations, Caritas and others, therefore this initiative does not really respect these things in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127333	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127334	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here after a whole day's debate, I actually have to say that I'm surprised and surprised because this society really has experienced really one metamorphosis. I honestly did not believe that left-handed people today would talk so much about the Holy Father, the Pope, and almost everyone who talked about it today, either in replicas or in certain individual debates, except for my colleagues, Arsena Bauk, who has not spoken about it, could actually start a club of Pope Francis fans. I strongly recommend that. On the other hand, here are the former foreign minister, Vesna Pusic and her deputy Mr. Josko Klisovic, and what comes to mind in those four years, in fact they could have changed and changed these contracts with St. Stolic, but it didn't happen and then suddenly as if they were in Medjugorje and experienced a certain apparition or maybe because Stepinchevo was on Sunday, I don't know, then they came up with the idea that they would actually propose these contract conclusions, changes to the contract with St. Stolic. That's what it looks like to me. So, as far as abilities are concerned, colleague Mrak-Taritash, I would think twice about giving certain tasks from the party's section to some of your colleagues. So, making a proposal for these conclusions on the three-and-a-half pages of A4 format, along with all four contracts related to the Holy Table, is at least ridiculous, to make one thorough analysis, and it was discussed that only a reminder of the ways that actually took place with the Holy Table, when the Croatian Bishop's Conference with its working group was doing so, on the one hand, and the states on the other hand, could then be done with a better quality proposal that might have been discussed in HS. My opinion is in the absence of a vision for problems in our home country, whether it is economic problems, youth problems, demographic problems, we easily reach out to topics related to ideology or world-famous topics, because somehow it always comes to fertile soil among certain voters we actually address through HS, thinking that we might be able to raise a voice more, especially now in the upcoming elections for the European Parliament. But it certainly won't work out because if we actually better prepare this law, maybe we could, I say, talk about it, but it didn't happen. On the other hand, on behalf of the promoter and what we have heard, it is actually about the differentiation of certain religious officials in the Catholic Church and the derogation of an institution like the Catholic Church. And such a pattern that you may think will bring you some percentage more in the upcoming elections and the constant maintenance of this topic in life, actually feed not only one part of our colleagues from the opposition, but also certain civil society associations that are constantly unargumented to say that these are attacks on the secular Croatian state, but are in fact certain associations of civil society that are infertile and sterile with their programmes, and in fact nothing else but the differentization of people and derogation of institutions. You esteemed colleagues, Mrak Taritash, say, reviewing me means liberating the state and its institutions from a firm grip of religious influence. I don't know where you see it, where it's actually being read in our society, which is actually a state trapped by the Catholic Church, I don't see it. I see that the Catholic Church neither participates in the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Croatia nor participates in the adoption of the law in any way, this is what we Parliamentarians do as legislators in the Croatian Parliament and you are aware of it. But let me remind you, as far as the Catholic Church is concerned, not just now, I could only go back to the period of '45. '90s to '90s. Mr. and we might be able to discuss this all afternoon, therefore, about injustices, the abolition of freedom, the confiscation of property, the ban on speaking freely of our thoughts, words, appearances, all of them, but since 1880, Croatians have been evicting from these areas, especially this part and part of Dalmatia to the overseas countries. Then the Church followed its people and sent its trap to New Zealand, Australia, South or North America, and later to Europe. Believe me, that's what I'm telling you from my own experience. For some 3 million Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, wherever we had Croatian Catholic missions as such, this is where the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of Croats was not lost. So he can be monitored in continuity. Where there were no Croatian Catholic missions, there was actually an assimilation of our people in these societies. So the Catholic Church's contribution to the Croats is immeasurable, so it can't be measured by anything or by these money that's given out of the state budget. On the other hand, you say, we must fiercely defend the opposition to the secularity of the Croatian state, which is the fluid of all liberal and democratic states in Europe and the world, that does not mean the fight against the basic sending of the church, and that is to announce love and peace to all people. It is the letter of the Church, therefore, of love, but it is not only the sending of the Church to the Croats, so we must not forget the charitable work, we must not forget the caritative work, when we have heard today about individual cases in the Church, I have said in my reply, therefore certain things which are blasphemous and I am ashamed of them as a member of the Catholic Church but the Church is a broad organization and there are very many people who are in sin or may not, not worthy of their sending to the Catholic Church today, and it happens both in presbyterianism and in the clergy and there are some unwanted things that a man must be ashamed of. However, these are the individual cases we are talking about, we are talking about the Church as an institution, as an institution particularly related to the Croatian people. So I don't see that danger to the secular state by the Catholic Church, I'd like you to deny me about it because we're after the '90s. Mr. experienced multi-party and democracy, and it is clear that today, in fact, all things can be spoken of accordingly. I said today that this act was not prepared to come into the parliamentary procedure and unfortunately it has one hate speech in it, said Mr. Kovac and Mr. Falcon, and I talked about it today because I was saying that the Catholic Church is actually destroying Croatian tissue and that as such it does not spread peace, love and tolerance but it is exactly the opposite to blasphemically pronounce in this Croatian Assembly especially for 90% of the members of Christians in this country of different Catholics. Also, you say I cannot accept the fact especially after the independence of the state in which the Church plays its part. I can understand you here, so I don't want to count blood cells, you say yourself that you are one left liberal option but you must understand those 3.7 million declared Christians in this Croatian state who think differently from you. In the very proposal for a conclusion, you say the other religious communities in the Republic of Croatia did not achieve even roughly comparable rights in their contracts with the State. Yes, because there are fewer than a few, so the highest percentage in this work is Catholic religious communities, which is normal, we talked about it actually if they actually get funds through the state budget. As far as religious science is concerned, and that's what the speech is, so you have the right to choose, it's an electoral subject and when you decide and when a parent changes his opinion, he has to say that at the beginning of the school year. And in conclusion, Ivica Racan and Mr Milanovic could and did not change these contracts with St. St. St. Nicholas, and they also knew why they would experience enormous damage and that would be devastating for the state budget and for the Republic of Croatia itself. On the other hand, you must not forget the Benevolence of the Catholic Church which was very careful and was sensitized when talking about such things especially if you remember during Milanovic, there was no payment of nearly 250 million kuna and then they could ask for compensation and interest charges but they did not do so. I am sorry that the loudest ones here are those who have barely crossed the threshold in the people's elections and remain thanks to the privileges of society and the budget itself. I say the same thing with many civil society associations. In my view, this is a political proposal, and it is in no way possible to present itself as an economic proposal in the absence of actually serving the idea in the day-to-day political action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127335	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's not present. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try to speak, so I will speak for myself in an individual debate, in a debate I will use my own personal experience because for 20 years I worked as a believer at school. So I personally think that we in MOST believe that there should be no taboo topic in Croatia either in this Croatian Parliament or in society that it should not be so-called. the sacred cows and the financing of religious communities, political parties, associations, newspapers, therefore, anything concerning taxpayers' money. So we don't consider this topic taboo a subject and it should be discussed. I would also like to say that this topic within the Catholic Church is not a taboo theme, therefore, that it exists within the Catholic Church, within the church dialogue that is discussed and that the plurality of the church is much greater than some in the assembly think, there exists in the Catholic Church, for example. Theology of Liberation, which claims that the church should turn to the poor therefore, the poor citizens, there is also a feminist theology, there are different theology, which circulate within the Church and therefore is debated. What I also believe is that this topic in HDZ, as it is said in the jargon, came as a ace on the 10th, to try to bring back in its debate its electoral body that may have lost the vote for the Istanbul Convention or by violating therefore, to try to construct the People's referendum initiatives, the coalition with HNS and Milorad Pupovac, and that is the legitimate right, therefore, to relocate the topic, but this debate was the most useful to them. What I will also point out in my debate, that it bothers me, that in this assembly that the terms of the Catholic Church were used, and that by definition the Catholic Church is not a hierarchy, but all the believers who are baptized and who believe in Jesus Christ, so I believe when we talked about the Catholic Church, 90% of the people present here are actually members of the Catholic Church and they are concerned. I think there's gonna be some research coming up soon, Professor. Gordan Črpić about values in Croatian society that should be seriously considered and I think how much I have been able to see, that religion in Croatian society is about the same, but that trust in the institutions of the Catholic Church is, therefore, in the insinuation of the Church, that it is seriously disrupted and that I think we all have to ask ourselves, which is why not only the hierarchy of the church but we also the believers, therefore, how much we actually contribute to this picture of the church with our lives. Now, will the revision of the Vatican Treaties, which is, by all accounts, certainly not come, make it possible for that institution to rise, it's... Question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be said that in countries that have a different model of financing than Croatia, that the influence of the Catholic Church is also falling, such as Germany, Italy, who may not have to question, therefore, what the Catholic Church and we all need to do, we should live more modestly in accordance with the science of the first Christian community to be preached by the other Vatican Council. So, in some ways there's an institution that we belong to and we trust to do what's more authentic. What also bothers me is that it was said in the debate, that people were spoken of as potatoes, so it's about believers, who for those small money, which teachers get zealously and worth doing their job, that these wages, they're not as big as 5-6 thousand kunas, as much as they pay for the protests and that it's about the human fates that their families have and who listen to this that aren't guilty. I did when I was in '91. So I didn't think that my destiny would depend on the political preferences of the current Parliament, because they're people with their families and that tomorrow because of the change in the consolidation of political relations can be found on the street. As far as religious science is concerned, I can talk about my experience, and I think that 90% of those present in this House don't know the plan and program of Catholic religious science at school, and it's actually more than 60-70% of all human topics, such as friendship, love, human sexuality, and part of it is about learning about other religions. I personally as a believer, every year I took the children to the mosque, the synagogue, and it was home to a part of the plan of the Catholic that I spent, which is, therefore, in the school curricula, and I will never forget the fact that in the chamber I was, when there was an attack on the twins on the 11th of September and when I saw what happened, it was 5.6 o'clock in the afternoon and when I saw in the classroom, on television what happened, that last two hours I decided to give the eight o'clock about Islam, and to say that Islam was not a religion that promotes violence. At that point in school, I was the only one trained to make those children, when they returned home, that they in some way did not hate Muslims for what they saw, so that the role of religious science had its meaning in school. For example, in Sisak there is a school where Muslim children at Christmas nature perform Catholics, and Catholics give them a performance for Bajram and therefore, they can personally testify, of course there are negative examples, but that is the case in all cases, that religion at school is a place of multiculturality and religious dialogue and that it is a place to promote tolerance in school that should be kept in mind when we talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127337	Thank you, dear colleague of Sladolev. On behalf of the Government, Ms. Secretary of State. Andreja Metelko Zgombić, please have a final word. This is for the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127338	Here's a thank you. We have carefully listened to this debate that has been going on for hours in this House of Higher House and from everything we have heard, as we have said, we conclude that the conditions for amending and launching the negotiation process for the revision of the contract with the Holy Table have not really been met. The agreements themselves contain a provision that changes can occur only if there are significant changed circumstances and the Government has already taken the view that such changed circumstances have not been achieved and that this debate has not, in our opinion, brought about something that would undermine our view. And what I'd like to say is that during the debate, we could hear from some MPs the idea that these contracts played their part, that they had a period of time and would like to make one comment on the misunderstanding of these contracts. So these contracts are concluded indefinitely and their intensity is to permanently settle certain issues between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia whether we talk about a contract on legal issues, whether we talk about a contract that regulates education and cultural issues, military soul-care and even those in economic relations. The only part of the economic relations agreement that has a certain limited duration until the final resolution of these issues is one that concerns the denationalisation and settlement of property-legal relations between the Catholic Church in Croatia and the Croatian state and all in accordance with the property compensation law seized during the communist rule. We have heard here that there is no list of these assets, that there is no idea what and in what way these contracts should be implemented, so the Croatian Government together with the Croatian Bishop's Conference is acting within the special committee that is considering these issues, I remind myself only, the contract states that it is necessary to return the seized property if possible, another category is to find an appropriate replacement and how not, then provide compensation, once again, all in accordance with the Croatian law that passed this High House. The issue is, during the term of office of the government, two sessions of the commission were held and are working on concreteisation, finalisation and resolution of certain specific cases so that the part of the contract can be permanently resolved. These other aspects, all other aspects, are intended for one permanent arrangement. There was a question as to whether we had any indication that the Holy See would be ready to enter any conversation. No, we do not have any indication and we do not see that this could be certain and those examples and cases of Spain, Italy that have also been mentioned, ideas appear in public space, but neither in the case of Spain nor in the case of Italy, their state, their governments have formally opened these questions to the Holy See. Here we could hear the thoughts of the Spanish Government or Spanish options in the past, just at the end of last December, and this new Spanish government received a formal question about whether it was intending to go into contract revision and formally replied no, that these contracts would not touch and that they would not run anything official towards the Holy See. Finally, the government remains in its opinion and suggests that this House rejects this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127339	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. We have the final word of the promoter, honorary colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127340	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here is in this small number of the most persistent of us left. In front of us in the afternoon discussion of the request that went from GLAS and HSU, the request was to reach a conclusion on the launch of a contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia. We all called those four contracts the Vatican contracts because it was easier for us. It is important to note for the end of the next and it is absolutely we were aware of the fact that 2/3 of the MPs in this House should vote to initiate the procedure at all, and this is the contract between the two entities, one is the Republic of Croatia, the other is the Holy See, and it is absolutely clear, even if there is a will to launch the Holy See, it should also be ready for it. Several thesis appeared in the debate, it is already late, colleagues who have developed it, the thesis, they are not there, if we have heard it, some go to watch football, some other thing, but one of the the thesis was, that a small party has set it off before the European Parliament elections, so it collects points. Well, then it's not bad for you to read the dates. So, on 20 April 2018, the conclusion went towards the Croatian Parliament, and thank you for being amended by the Rules of Procedure which says that if you have 30 signatures of MPs, and 60 days is something on the agenda, you can discuss it. And we think it's extremely good that the need for revision of these contracts has been discussed in this House. It is incomparable to discuss this in this House, to show itself at all, and to give each one his own attitude, rather than to discuss it in the towers. Likewise, I don't have a long political internship, so I've been in politics since 2013, and I have to admit that I'm also myself, and also for a party that I'm currently in charge of, I've heard a lot of things. I've heard that, here, we've done an article of four pages, we've heard that, we should've tried harder, so if we've worked harder, it would've been, uh, better, that the data we've been reading is guilty, that if we wanted someone to help us create a particular lab, it's always good to hear everything, and we absolutely think that the Parliament is the place to argue, and I think that there's a place where we should and somehow face different opinions, different attitudes, different ideas. Equally, if ten people are going to repeat something that isn't true, it doesn't mean that after that, when someone says it the 11th time, it's going to be true. So I would like to conclude by saying this, on 20 April 2018, this proposal came to the Assembly, and none of us were European elections, on the minds of any of us. The government's obvious was May 30th that same year, and the government said that it refused and argued, I could now have us a little more then go from point to point, but there's really no need to discuss it. Likewise, I don't mind anyone saying that we didn't do something right, that we did half-do it, that we're offered to do it, but the last time I remember in these rooms was one piece of an institute from Prnjavor, and then we'll thank the esteemed colleague Kovac, who offered to advise us a little bit, that's the last thing I remember, but since I don't usually use if I don't have the arguments to insult, if I don't have the arguments to say that someone doesn't know my job, I won't even say it now. What is evident, there are four Vatican contracts, those four Vatican contracts have defined certain things, we have on several occasions asked for an opinion or an indication of the Government, which means financially. Financially for the Republic of Croatia means at the level of a year about one billion kuna. It was trying to say that it was the wrong information, so in the context of that, I'm just going to, the math that I've done here, so we're going to be very clear what it's about. So for each parish are given two gross salaries, one gross salary is at this point 8500,00 kuna, each County gets 17.000,00 kuna. In Croatia we have 5 archdioceses, 11 dioceses, especially Zadar for historical reasons, we have a special bishop military or military office. Based on the 2008 data, that's the only data I've been able to get in a short time, otherwise I'd have to count it by the Bishops, we have 1533 Parish, that's the data that we have, maybe there's something more or less, depending on the criteria that, and annually in these Parishs, for these Parishs is 312 million kunas, that's the fact that when you do math, when you take all the other things that are, you get about this amount. If I wanted to be very naughty, then I'd wonder the following, you have a lot of parish where you have a priest, and you only have a nun or someone who helps, and that parish will get 17.000,00 kuna, I've been a little interested in how much a priest's salary is, 5,000.00 kuna, so it would be very interesting to see where that difference is, but it's not a topic right now. We wanted to discuss this, these four Vatican Treaties, in the context of what the Republic of Croatia's obligations are, we wanted to discuss in this House, we wanted this way to actually point out the importance of managing all processes in society which, we are sure of one thing, which is something worth '96. or in '98, it's not worth it in 2019, the colleagues I'm looking at who are now on my right, they said there's still some time to go and something else, and on several occasions it's been so why isn't the government of Mr. Racan or Mr. Milanovic, you have to have the courage to do this. As for a number of other things in life. You must have the courage to write something, you must have the courage to analyze it, and you must have the courage to say we think that the time has come to enter into this process because we think that in Croatian society some other relations have changed, and that the time has come to initiate the process of reviewing the Vatican Treaties. I am sure that the Honorable State Secretary knows and if we were to make the decision, how long it would take, all together under 5 years would not have lasted, therefore we had the courage to deliver this conclusion to the Croatian Parliament on 20 April 2018, it was already a great success for us to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament and it was good to talk about it, and it was good to face different opinions, and it was good to see who thought about it. But in my life, I learned the following, if you have no arguments, then you humiliate, then you insult, then you demean, then you set the whole thesis upside down, or whatever we want to say, saw backwards. So this way I thank all those who participated in the debate, of course, we don't have any ambition to change anything by Friday, even more than we do, we know that even for less things, you know when you give one amendment and you say install that amendment because it won't work for you, then that amendment is rejected, so in two months you get an amendment and a supplement to the law, so we learned that everything that comes from the opposition is automatically not accepted, but this way I thank everyone who participated in the debate once again. We in this little party, as we said, called GLAS, are together at the Club with HSU, and here, and in the City Assembly, we think it was extremely important to discuss this, and we think that all our discussions in this sense are discussions about the processes of democracy that this country deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127341	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We have a replica. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127342	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I believe that this initiative of yours and the debate we had was useful, but in terms of a kind of introduction in many debates where part of the Church would want the state of its laws to get as close to religious views as possible, thus trying to impose those views on all citizens who, with the threat of being punished, should live. So they're waiting for us, we're still having a debate, and one of them was the one about the Istanbul Convention, in which the government, with the help of part of the opposition, and with the detachment of part of the HDZ, managed to resist. I think that we should be very careful to approach such things and debates, respecting the religious feelings of the citizens, and carefully selecting and weigh every word, because there is no need to unnecessarily light up some sort of spark that... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127343	Thank you, dear colleague Bauk. Answer, esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127344	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I absolutely agree with you. In your life it's much easier to have an axe, so with an axe cut, it's much easier for you to bury yourself in trenches and each of your trenches to shoot further, it's much harder to talk, face different opinions, different attitudes. We in GLAS are absolutely in favour of talking, of dialogue, because only that can bring some improvements. Equally by ruling when there will be a need for certain activities or the adoption of certain laws where they will have opposition in their own ranks, and we who are the opposition agree and think that it is good for the development of democracy, for the development of Croatian society, can always find an intercessor with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127345	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, for your reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. And once again, thanks to the government's representatives, Foreign and European Ministry of State Secretary Andreja Metelko-Zgombic and Head of the Ministry's Service, Mr Boris Belanic. I would also like to thank the representatives of the proposings for their reasons. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda for today, we continue tomorrow at 9.30 in the morning, with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, second reading, P.Z. Number 421. Have a nice night. The session was interrupted at 21.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127346	Now a break is probably a request for a break, colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127347	Dear President HS, we are looking for a break to once again warn about the importance of amending the Vatican Treaties, in order to save the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I think that this should be a goal for all of us, citizens need to know what the church is spending money in, and this spending church needs to actually report and report. Although we are in the SDP's position that religious science is a place in the church, not in schools, what we need again is to appeal for the teaching of religious science to be held for the first or the last hour so that children in schools would not be discriminated against on religious grounds. The only goal of the revision of the Vatican Treaties, as proposed by the HSU and GLAS Club, is in fact that children are not discriminated on a religious basis, that the money of the Republic of Croatia is spent transparently, that money is saved and that work is adequately paid on Sundays. What is certain to you is that the revision of the Vatican Treaties can provide sufficient resources, for example. for free textbooks for all children in the Republic of Croatia, and that will help, of course, you too at HDZ because when they will vote on budget rebalancing, you will no longer have to collect tokens around the Assembly to secure money for free textbooks. In that sense, I call on you to support the process of launching the Vatican Treaty review procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127348	Comrade Glasnović, please, okay. The apartment will be approved, Comrade Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127349	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club. It is that these Vatican Treaties, or four contracts, between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, are not topics of any religion, religion or religion. We as liberals would, absolutely to us personal freedoms and freedoms of religion are one of the fundamental personal freedoms and if in any way it were ordered in the Republic of Croatia, we would be the first to advocate and to oppose it. But what we want to stress is that four Vatican, or four contracts, were signed in the 96rd three, one 98th year, and we absolutely appreciate the conditions for the initiation of the audit process. The initiation of the audit process means that 2/3 of parliamentary MPs should vote for it, which does not mean that it will happen if the other one, I will just wait for counterpart Maras to leave, goodbye, that the other side must agree to it. And anyone sitting in this assembly who will once go to the elections will have to answer to their voters or voters why the Republic of Croatia does not have the strength to run the process, is the only country that stands out for the needs of the church is Masarska, and in the Republic is 6 times the average of all EU countries. That is the answer that should be given to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to that answer each of us must have, to that question each of us must have the answer when asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127350	All right, buddy, buddy, who called earlier? Comrade Batinić, here you are, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127351	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm also looking for a break, of course, just for the sake of public information, we'll be restrained around this part, I'd like to further explain why. Just for the very reason of what is in the proposal, it means that one topic that should certainly be discussed. The proposal of the GLAS is also the view that interstate contracts, however, are also about other religious communities operating in the Republic of Croatia, and I therefore believe that at this point, the question is why not with other religious communities. We are aware that there is also a Jewish community, a Muslim community, so there is also an Orthodox church because the Vatican Treaties in one large part define the issue of property relations. Furthermore, what this part also wants to impose would be the issue and certain other topics related to the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Church. I just want to point out one more thing that we advocate that the Republic of Croatia remains a secular state and, of course, that the issue of these other topics that are related to the ratification of the agreement with the Holy Table is certainly a topic that will have to be opened in due course. However, the question arises whether now is a moment or perhaps a moment a few years ago. I repeat, we will be restrained because in principle we support the initiative to move forward, but primarily I think that the government should be shown first of all about it, when it considers and that a more quality analysis should be made when it is necessary to enter into an audit or to discuss it. One more. One second, one more, just please a minute, so one very atypical behavior of fellow Bernardic, means [[Intruder: Thank you]] The topic is from GLAS, and he uses political points and is the first in GLAS. [[Employer: Comrade Batinić, time is up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127352	Time's up, thank you. Comrade Reiner, on behalf of the Club, the time has passed for my colleague Bernardic, I have interrupted the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127353	Dear Mr. President HS. And the HDZ Club is looking for a break. First of all, because a whole series of inaccuracies is re-emerged, for example, by Bernardić talked about, say, things that are not at all in one, or contract with the Holy Table, on Sunday's work, or what the promoters who wanted to question contracts with the Holy Table wrote. It simply does not say in, therefore, when they realized that the people would not accept their unargumented, in fact the charges of the Catholic Church, the demonstrations because they wrote that the Catholic Church spreads messages of exclusion, hatred and misunderstandings and when they realized that most Croatian citizens did not accept it, then they turned the story to the question of money and now everything is questionable under money. It is also false that the bishops or elements of the Catholic Church do not report any reports, that is not true, they regularly provide reports of the money they receive from the budget because each budgetary user has to give it, and so do they. So, this pamphlet is actually full of lies and when they realize that the people don't accept it, then they start talking about hundreds of millions, billions, etc., it won't go away, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-06-0.u127354	Okay, is anyone else picking up? If not, we have a break until 12.55. Interrupt session at 12.45 p.m. So we are going to vote on the Proposal for a conclusion on the opening of the negotiation procedure on amendments to the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed by the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a conclusion on the opening of the procedure for negotiations on amendments to the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, which the Government and the parliamentary working bodies do not support. Let's vote please. I find that the conclusion has not received enough votes and has not been reached, the vote ratio is 27 for, 9 abstentions and 67 votes against.
