ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132140	Good afternoon, everyone, 93 and 31 minutes, we can begin. On the agenda: - Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 27 October 2017 to 15 July 2018 is proposed by the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy under Article 2 on the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Management Programme. The government delivered an opinion, does the applicant's representative, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic, president of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy want to give an additional explanation? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Today is an important topic, too bad we are no longer in the assembly, so the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-corruption Strategy for the period from 27 October 2017 to 15 July 2018. Already, the fact that it took this long to get this report on the agenda is not good because, in the meantime, the council has done almost twice as much work as in the previous period, but as far as it can be, better than never. One reminder, the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy has been active since 2006 when the plan and the National Anti-Corruption Programme in the Republic of Croatia and the National Council played a rather significant role in improving the fight against corruption and creating conditions for closing Chapter 23. Otherwise, what are the tasks of the National Council? The National Council therefore monitors and monitors the implementation of the Anti-corruption Strategy, systematically monitors the developments of corruption submitted to it by the bodies responsible for the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, analyses the reports of the competent authorities on the implementation of the Corruption Management Strategy and action plans to tackle corruption and assess the ways and results of the implementation, proposes measures to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the Corruption Management Strategy and encourages and directs the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the state and other bodies and other factors in charge of implementing the Corruption Management Strategy. The National Council has one specific composition, unlike all other working bodies, so it has a president and 10 members, the president always comes from the ranks of the opposition and the deputy president from the majority. What is also specific to the work of the National Council is that there are six external members who are the majority and that all of these members make decisions equally with the other members of the Assembly. These external members should say that they represent certain segments of Croatian society, so we have a union representative, a police union, a civil society representative, media representatives, employers' representatives. During this period in the work of the council with me as president is part of Vice-President Ante Babić, at first he was a member of the National Council while Ivan Kruhoberec, a media representative, Gordan Žmuk was a representative of the Police Trade Union but was replaced later by Mr. Dario Uljenović, Krešimir Planinić, representative of civil society Ivan Kallogjera Brkić, media representative Smiljana Škogor Hrnčević and Branko Roglic, representative of HUP employers. They've all been elected to a public competition. During the period covered by this report, 13 sessions were held, of which 9 regular and 4 thematic sessions, while 8 more sessions were held, of which 5 regular and 3 thematic sessions were held, but we will discuss this in another report. What I must certainly stress at the beginning that in the 8th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, from 8 December 2015 to 20 June 2016. The National Council has not been established at all and on the current meeting that was established on 14 October 2016, the National Council began its work in full on 27 October 2017, which is certainly not a good message on preparedness and importance and the need for an even more effective fight against corruption. The 2015-2020 anti-corruption strategy defines corruption as a society that directly endangers human rights, destroys morals and threatens the stability and economic progress of the state. In one sentence, we will all believe in agreeing, corruption is literally a cancer of every society and so on Croatian. The fight against corruption is therefore a basic prerequisite for the development of an open and democratic society. The Anti-Corruption Strategy, which monitors our National Council for the period from 2015 to 2020, focuses on preventing corruption through the detection of corruption risks and removing remaining legislative and institutional shortcomings. Analysis of the strategy from past periods has shown the need to open a new cycle of strategic planning in the area of countering corruption. The general objective of the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament is to prevent corruption or manage its risks in public administration, units of local and regional and regional self-government, public authorities, companies in which state and unit and regional self-government have ownership stakes and private and non-profit sectors. The strategic areas have been achieved through 7 horizontal objectives. First, the integrity within the political system and administration, second, local and regional (regional) self-government, third public procurement, fourth majority-owned companies, fifth prevention of conflict of interest 6. the right to access information and the 7th role of civil society organisations, citizens and media in countering corruption. So you really see a comprehensive 7 horizontal targets, which are then drawn up in 126 measures of the action plan followed by the National Council. During this reporting period, the National Council adopted all the reports set out in the Action Plan which were discussed at regular sessions. However, the National Council has repeatedly found that a general impression has been created that interest in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia is in a slight decline. This can also be concluded at the attendance of both thematic and regular sessions, by the representatives of HS, but also according to the attendance of interested participants, in which they can express a great dissatisfaction, for example. that the minister of the administration, Mr Kuščević, was not worthy to come to any session, although we insisted that because of the large-scale work, which the Ministry of Administration has to do with the problems, to mention only the adoption of a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, we tried and jointly organised a session with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in order to clarify the problems and why the law stands in someone's drawer, but, behold, we failed to do so. That our impression that there was a certain stagnation in Croatia in the preparedness to fight corruption also shows corruption perception indices, first for 2016, when Croatia returned from 2015 and from 176 to 55th place, and then it continued in 2017 and 2018 when it further fell from index 49 to 48, which is considered a corrupt society because, according to Transparency methodology, everything below 50 is a corrupt society. Unfortunately, we only scored 48 points, while the European average is 66. Consequences as the most risky, corruption in public procurement operations is said to be said and citizens' confidence in the state's institutions is diminished. It points to the need for stronger engagement of all state institutions, politicians, both ruling and opposition, at all levels, in the adoption of measures and implementation of them, for which corruption is more effective. So, the National Council considers our strategic documents to be good, but there is a certain limping in implementation, which is then reflected in the perception of citizens about corruption. As regards the work of the National Council at the meetings, according to our powers, as a rule once a month in the past period, for this report 13, and a total of 21 sessions, where we discussed reports and where, in accordance with our respective powers, we had some 6 objectives. First, increase the integrity, accountability and transparency of the public authority, both central and local. Second, strengthen anti-corruption mechanisms in public authorities, thirdly, strengthen the cooperation of public authorities, fourthly, effectively detect and combat corruption. Fifthly, monitor the consistent and effective implementation of the existing legislative framework in the area of the prevention of corruption and the prevention of corruption, and strengthen, in particular, public awareness of the causes and consequences of corruption and the role of each individual citizen in the prevention of corruption. At our regular sessions, we discussed the reports of the holder of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. I won't list it all, you have it in detail written in materials, so there's no need to take up your time. What I'm going to say is that, at this point, it's somewhat wider than this report, of 126 measures in the action plan, 81%, which is a significant shift compared to the period from 2015 to 2016 when that percentage of measures was 56%. So 81 versus 56%. Unfortunately, the impression remains that this implementation, although successful, does not simultaneously reflect the citizens' position on the success of fighting corruption. A few short sentences about the four thematic sessions we held. At the thematic sessions, we try to include in the discussion in HS all interested, therefore, from the academic community, the expert public, the judiciary, the media, civil society, the public, the citizens, in order to jointly determine what the situation is and propose concrete measures. The first thematic session concerned corruption risks in public procurement. We have indicated that one of the key problems that led the Republic of Croatia to the corruption perception index is reclassified in the order of corrupt countries, precisely because of high corruption risks in public procurement. The activities responsible for the procurement process have been considered and concrete solutions have been proposed to improve transparency in the public procurement system. The second thematic session, extremely important, had the name Strategy and Action Plans to combat corruption in Croatia, yesterday, today, tomorrow. It was held on the International Anti-Corruption Day, December 9th, and what we have pointed to is the harmfulness of corruption, which is unfortunately still deeply rooted in our society for now, and among the most important consequences of corruption is the loss of trust in state authorities, which then negatively reflects the overall development of society, particularly on economic development. It should also be noted that any fall on the corruption perception index scale means the automatic and decline of the gross domestic product due to limited investment by foreign investors who do not want to go to countries considered corrupt. It pointed out the need for increased prevention of the fight against corruption in the sense that it must be discovered and sanctioned and that it must not be in society as there is now to pay for corruption. The media play a major role in the fight against corruption, so we held the thematic session The importance of media freedom in the fight against corruption, on the occasion of a world day of freedom of the media, and pointed out that countries where there is extremely high pressure on civil society, where journalists are being punished, and in some countries, in extreme cases and life-deprived countries, are all represented by countries with a high level of corruption. It pointed to key problems and tried to answer the question of what we as politicians can do to make freedom of the media bigger. What is indicative, as I am saying today from this pay phone, all the editors-in-chiefs of the relevant media in the Republic of Croatia were invited to the session, but none responded. This speaks a lot about the position of journalists in the media in the fight against corruption because we can freely say that in Croatia the media is free, but the question is how many journalists in these media are free, i.e., as much as because of self-censorship, censorship and the threat of quitting, can do their job quality. The next very important thematic session, which we held 1 times in the work of the National Council outside of Zagreb, was dedicated, to corruption, to clientism, at local level, to causes, mechanisms and consequences. We held it in Osijek, wanting to send a message, to the extent that transparency and unconditional opinion of the Office of State Audit, which Osijek as a unit of local administration, is important. It points to the necessity, transparency and responsibilities of management, which citizens are paying into budgets, which is a true dam in the fight against any corruption. We also pointed out the adoption of new legislation and the need for the adoption of the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Media Act, and the need to adopt ethical codes, all government officials, at all levels. So, colleagues and colleagues, I remind you, we are constantly under criticism of GRECA, bodies that monitor the implementation of corruption measures, because this House still doesn't have its own ethical code. The Council receives and presents and reports of citizens, in the reporting period, we received 16 applications and presentations of citizens, with suspicions of the existence of corrupt actions, of which 4 were anonymous and all applications were submitted to the competent authorities, for them 15 we received an indication and informed those who submitted those requests. Of the other activities, I will mention our ownership of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, where we have seen how the process of informing work processes has been implemented, which makes the commission much more operational and successful in work. At that meeting we also discussed the need to adopt a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and I repeat, the request of the National Council, that the Ministry of Administration, finally present the law in the Croatian Parliament. We also had an international visit, a delegation from Kosovo, who were interested in the way in which corruption was controlled in Croatia, particularly interested in the property cards of officials, and the way and extent of the influence of the National Council in the fight against corruption. In conclusion, in this presentation, what I can say, therefore, although according to the Corruption Perception Index 2015, 2016, 2017, we see that Croatia is going back in the fight against corruption and that it is certainly not a good message. According to citizens, bribes and corruption, they are widespread both in business and in state authorities. There is significant mistrust in the legal system of the state, and it is believed that state bodies are ineffective in sanctioning corrupt operations. The specific problem is the risks that arise in public procurement and the slowness in judicial decisions. According to our conclusions, the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy points out that there is room for progress, in meeting the measures envisaged by the action plan, but unfortunately this is not accompanied by an increase in citizens' confidence in public authorities and the ability of Croatian society to fight corruption. A significant piece of data other than the corruption perception index, which speaks of such poor perception in Croatian society, that 4% of citizens are doing research to report corruption, which is certainly not promising. The National Council, in conclusion, is not an operational body, has no legal authority to conduct investigations, nor can it impose sanctions on the launch of corrupt operations. However, through monitoring the implementation of action plans measures in the anti-corruption strategy of the '15-20s. As well as past reporting periods, the National Council has proposed 10 concrete measures, which we consider to be a contribution to improving and preventing corruption through the objectives and strategies set, firstly, increasing the integrity and transparency of public and central bodies, local authorities, secondly, strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms in public authorities, thirdly, stronger public authorities cooperation and strengthening the capacity to carry out activities aimed at combating corruption. Fourthly, the effective detection and prevention of corruption, fifthly, consistent and effective implementation of the existing legislative framework in the field of countering and preventing corruption, the sixth establishment of corruption risk management procedures in public authorities, the seventh, strengthening public awareness of the causes and consequences of corruption and the roles of each individual citizen... the prevention of corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Eighth, strengthening roles and trials with civil society in supporting corruption repression, the ninth development of international co-operation in the fight against corruption and the tenth, strengthening the active role of the media in raising personal and professional integrity. In the next reporting period, the National Council will continue to encourage debate and propose measures to make the strategy and action plan as effective as possible, putting emphasis above all on certain areas where potentially the most corrupt risks, such as the judiciary, political parties and public order affairs, protection and security, and all in order to change the perception of corruption in society as a common and socially accepted phenomenon. Unfortunately, we're not in a very optimistic situation. I believe you've all had a chance, and if you haven't, I recommend you look at the research presented in the Croatian Assembly... in Croatia since 1999-2018 in which the values of Croatian society, when it comes to the Parliament and the judicial system, are constantly falling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, trust in the Croatian Parliament has been since '99. when it was 23% over 2009 when it was 12%, in 2018 it fell to only 8%. In the justice system, citizens' trust in '99. It was 35%, 2009. 19% and 2018. 15%. Or if we look at today, 4 of some institutions, bodies, which concern all of us, political parties, Parliament, government bodies and justice, the situation is like this, so according to a survey of values in Croatia 2018, there is 4% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in Parliament 8%, in government bodies 10% and in the judiciary 15%. It is not a promising climate to fight corruption, but I hope, therefore, that we will contribute together, that on our part, at least the citizens' confidence in the work of parliamentarians and the willingness of parliamentarians to face corruption and the fight against corruption will be greater than ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132142	Thank you, too. The first replica was sought by Mr. Gordan Maras, the EU's point says Go ahead, the EU's Gordan Maras point writes so. [[What do you say?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, you know that corruption is one of the key issues in the EU, and it is a good thing that you put an EU point on it, which is my site where I promote European values, but what I wanted to ask Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Does he see any correlation, which I see, and probably everyone here and Mr. Bačić would analyze it very simply to just take a look at the Transparency International report, whether he sees a correlation between when HDZ comes to power and enhances the experience of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, especially when it's reinforced with HNS and Bandic, or by chance, that's what I'm interested in. Is it by any chance that for the past 4 years a dramaticly increased index of corruption in the Republic of Croatia or is it related to HDZ or their relationship to the behaviour of the authorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132144	I assume you've replicated Mr. Jovanovic, haven't you? Well, I don't know because you've been talking to Mr. Bacic all along. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleague Maras, without any intention of politicizing, I will only talk about numbers. So, in its history, Croatia was outside the circle of corrupt countries only once in 2015, probably due to the work of the then government. So then we had 51 points, and 50 is the line considered corrupt. After that, in 2016 we immediately fell into a circle corrupt at 49 points, which continued in 2017. 49 and now 48. So if we're healthyly comparing who's in power and what's the index in the perception of corruption, then your thesis is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132146	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132147	Thank you, Vice-President, respected colleague Jovanovic, so I think that the only body in the Croatian Parliament that has at least tried to discuss some cases of corruption or possible corruption is the National Anti-Corruption Council, which I would like to call on you and all of you in the assembly here and the vice president to get more involved in, that official institutions, for example. The DORH does not give an insight into the Anti-Corruption Council, an insight into the solution to reject criminal charges in the case in which the Anti-Corruption Council was engaged. I think it's completely inappropriate, especially since in that case, I'm talking about the Sabek case opening suspicions that after my asked question to the prime minister, the DORH on the same day rejected a criminal application, and to this day, neither has the man who filed the criminal application been given any insight into the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132148	Thank you, too. Mr. Jovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132149	Thank you, Mr. Grumoja, my colleague, and I must publicly commend you for making a great contribution to the dynamics of the Council and the launch of various issues that are considered controversial, I think this is the only time. So, I call on all my colleagues in this assembly, regardless of party membership, to help their initiatives, proposals and queries to make our councils stronger, even stronger, and to contribute to public perception that the council really wants to oppose corruption. In doing so, transparency is crucial, and so on about this question that you have asked which was the subject of our session, and where we have ultimately not received all the concrete answers that we consider to be very important in order to make this problem clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132150	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Steve Culey's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132151	Dear Vice President, President Jovanovic says one headline in the paper, the academic community is appalled and Jovanovic has fought corruption, I will not enter into details about what is being said, but public perception is justified about Croatia's corruption in the set, starting with top state officials who are full of newspapers. They're full of articles, full of profiles wherever you go. The skeletons from the closet are both left and right, the ones before, and they'll probably fall out after us when we get out of here. As president of the Anti-Corruption Council in several terms have you ever been able to bring in justice in any way by those who are committing insubordination from your own or any party? When we did it in the Anti-Corruption Council, we looked into each other's eyes. Then we'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132152	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132153	Thank you very much, colleague Culej is also a member of the National Council you heard and initially when I said about it, I should stress that this report has been accepted unanimously, so without any comments. As for the role of the National Council in disclosing various corrupt actions, I said that we are not an investigative body, we are a body that monitors the implementation of the strategy and combats corruption, but any application that comes to the National Council has been anonymous or signed is forwarded to the regulated bodies responsible for the investigative actions and the implementation of the process of proving real corruption. Therefore, when you have any request from counterpart Culej, any doubt is freely raised and will be forwarded to the competent authorities for treatment, and I am telling all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia this way and this way, if you do, and you do not trust others, please contact the National Council, we will forward your representation, suspicion to the competent authorities and inform you of their findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132154	Now it's on, thank you, now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132155	Thank you very much. We are witnessing that the DORH conducts an investigation into the bonds without cover in Agror about suppliers, I will remind you of the president of the Anti-Corruption Council that I filed a criminal report two years ago, the DORH is obliged to answer me on the matter within 6 months, meaning HANFE and HNB their roles as regulator i.e. The stability council, I didn't get any answers, it's about 10 billion kuna, the bond without cover used by Agrokor, so here if you can deal with this question why the DORH didn't, what DORH did about what they were doing regulatory... HANFA and HNB, it was our esteemed Mr. Vujčić, who is the governor, who has been re-elected, and he has done more damage and hit her than, I don't know who. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132156	Mr. Jovanovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132157	Thank you very much. So, fellow Bull, according to your question, we're going to request a DORH report on the activities undertaken, I can say that here's a very current subject 3. So, Maya, the National Council received both a play and an anonymous report of malfeasances in 3. Maju and Uljanika, who immediately, without any hesitation, forwarded to the competent authorities and we also expect to be informed of the activities undertaken that were happening with 3. May and Oil and where the money's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132158	Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132159	Thank you very much. Representative Jovanovic, therefore, you run the Anti-Corruption Council, so I wonder if in the last five years any politicians have been legally convicted of corruption? And I'm also interested in whether, in the meantime, a verdict for war profit has been passed, have we seen that out of hundreds of cases that have been conducted and thousands of criminal charges one single man in the Republic has been convicted of war profiteering, so I wonder if maybe our judiciary in the meantime has made that effort to pass another verdict and if we have that other verdict, here, what you know about it, because judging by these judgments, it seems that in fact corruption in the Republic does not exist at all, and that it would be best for us to end it because it deals with something that is not in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132160	Answer, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132161	Thank you, colleague Bunjac, for your comment which is absolutely valuable and important because the main problem at this time in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia is the lack of a powerful verdict and the withdrawal of all acquired assets which has been proven through a legally condemned verdict as a result of corrupt activities. So, all the numerous, huge, processes that begin in the Republic of Croatia, from the Fimi Media via former Prime Minister Sanader to Mr. Calmeta's fear of tunneling and not counting further, are not completed, it creates doubts for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about the real desire and willingness to fight corruption. Therefore, when we see in the Republic of Croatia that judicial proceedings, fair court proceedings, have been completed and completed within a reasonable period and that property has been seized by corruption, citizens will begin to believe in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132162	Mr. Bacic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132163	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. 185. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Namely, I have no objection to this debate during and during this debate, as usual in HS replicating anything, however, the rapporteur of the working body in accordance with Article. 185, it can be opinions, views only in the Committee's report, not its own observations, so I would ask Mr Jovanovic to warn him that he is in his replicas holding on to that as stated in the Committee's report, and what he would suggest should be written there [[Intruder: Thank you]] but only what [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132164	I'll just read the article. The 185th rapporteur of the working body who has examined the draft law may present opinions, views, observations and proposals taken by the working body. Let's move on, Mr. Maras, injuring the Rules of Procedure, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132165	Thank you very much. An article relating to the conduct of the session has been injured, which is of 232, 233 [[Intruder: which is it, which is it, which is the article]] There's more, there's more, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: which article is related]] But he was also injured in 238 if you insist. [[Intruder: but which article you are referring to]] You can return [[Intruders: for abuse of Rules of Procedure...]] But wait... [[You've received a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132166	Thank you very much, I won't wait for anything because you don't know the article, you don't know the subject, you just want to show yourself and say your opinion, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132167	Just a little bit, Mr. Vice President. Mr Vice President [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] So you can't take away our right not to speak [[Intruder: Let's move on, Mr. Ante Babic...]] You cannot take away our right to speak, [[There's a replica. There's a replica. There's a replica.]] Can I say? [[Intruder: Here you are, Mr. Ante Babic]] Mr. Vice President, so don't be nervous. [[Intruder: No, Mr. Ante Babic]] [[/Intruder: Here you go, you know there's another reminder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132168	Are you looking for a break? Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132169	Here, thank you, well-respected Vice President HS. And I wanted to refer to Mr. Bacic's report by the Honored President of the National Council of Mr. Jovanovic, therefore, I am sorry that you specifically apostropheeded Mr. Lovre Kuštević's management minister who did not attend any meeting of the National Council, but were present at the State Secretary, so every time they were called to the National Council, the Secretary of State in the absence of the Minister changes the same minister and represents that ministry, because of the correctness, and because of the public, I was obliged to say, otherwise only the report of the National Council was correct and orderly made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132170	Follow the first answer to the replica, then I'll give you Mr. Maras' word if you're looking for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132171	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Babić for agreeing as vice-president that the report was properly and truly, I have tried to be maximum, maximum diplomatic in the report and to present exactly what was adopted at the National Council meetings, and as regards Mr Kuštević, through phonograms, it is possible to see the National Council that, on several occasions as president, I expressed disdain because he was not involved enough in the work, and I believe that given the importance of the legal documents brought by his ministry, with of course, absolute thanks to the state secretaries who participated in the work of the National Council. The same way that I do in replicas of what the MPs are asking me to do is I really have to answer in a concrete way and I can't put myself in the shell of just the president of the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132172	Let's move on. Yeah? Yeah, right? I didn't get it. Are you looking for a word or not? ... Then go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a word for it to retreat and manifest Yeah, yeah, that's it. [[You're looking for Stanka?]] So you can express yourself not once in a word but there are several possibilities for you to realize that we are looking for [[Intruder Radin: Good.]] pause Because we have to consult because this is also what is happening right now is a kind of corrupt behavior that makes it impossible for Croatian MPs to express themselves, it is HDZ, it is HDZ. [[Intruder Radin: Good.]] So Mr. Bačić, on behalf of HDZ, would put a Band-Aid on his mouth and prevent them from talking about what the entire Croatian people see, when HDZ comes into a position of corruption, people leave Croatia, shipbuilding jobs are closing, some are rising as far as their bank accounts are concerned, and that's what we need to talk about here. The partners who hold them in power bought these chips with a variety of promises, who knows what. And now Mr. Bacic would like us to keep quiet about it here. Well, it has not been estimated that corruption in Croatia has grown dramatically in the last three years since the HDZ in the SDP rating, Mr Bačić, but rather in the Transparency International assessment, those who do so, they say that Andrej Plenkovic, Mr Bačić, and now that I don't list all those others here, they say that corruption in Croatia is getting bigger and bigger. And it's scandalous, Mr. Vice President, that you and your warnings wish to silence the MPs as well. So you don't want to, threaten me with a second warning and taking away the word so you can't talk about it later. That's also scandalous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132174	I'm sorry, but first I'll show myself and then I'll give it to Mr. Bačić. Mr. Bacic referred to an article, quite legitimately, and I read it perfectly legitimately. Afterwards, Mr Jovanovic said that in response he may have to state his opinion in addition to the opinions prescribed in the article, and we will see that balance if it is broken or not. Unfortunately, I'm going to have to decide, that's the whole story. And now Mr. Bacic has asked for it. ... No, Mr. Bacic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure before. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm sorry. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No threat, I gave a warning, I didn't threaten. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132175	Mr. Bacic said he was injured by the Rules of Procedure and your duty was to say that or not So I would ask you, I would ask you to say whether Mr. Jovanovic is injured by responding to replicas or not. [[No, it wasn't a duty.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132176	Excuse me, well, didn't you say what article you called yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132177	... So Mr. Bacic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132178	Please, here from this place all vice presidents assess whether they'll give a warning or not. When... I'm sorry, when someone doesn't know the article, for example. Which calls it is almost a duty to give a warning and I'm not going to give you a warning right now because I'm going to exercise my right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I gave Mr. Maras a warning because he was obvious, it was obviously an attempt to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. ... And now, and now it's... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Sir, wait, who, who, who? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But who [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[I've got 15 seconds left.]] [[Intruder Maras: Shame.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132179	So it's an article 236 that's talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The chairman is obliged to provide an explanation after the complaint has been made. You did not give Mr. Bačić an explanation and I am interested in your view whether Mr. Jovanovic can respond to the replicas as he will or cannot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132180	You want an answer? The answer is next. Mr. Bacic cited an article by which Mr. Jovanovic should not give his personal opinion. But since this is Parliament, I am pleased that Mr Jovanovic is up to one limit, which we will probably be discussing is his opinion, because it is impossible to talk about one thing without bringing yourself out in this matter. That's my answer and now you're satisfied with, not talking to you but with Mr. Bauk... If it is, if you're satisfied with that well, if not, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 'Cause me, you want me to read article 185 again? ... Mr. Bernardic, come in. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132181	Dear Mr. Radin Article 185, 236, 238, you are Mr. Radin as part of the ruling coalition here in Parliament today you are trying to silence the opposition because it is talking about HDZ corruption scandals. [[/Intruder Radin: Article?]] You, as part of the ruling coalition, are doing this, are holding up the lottery while we are trying to talk about corruption in Croatia. You won't shut us up. You're not gonna get away with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132182	Thank you very much. And you, Mr Bernardic, as part of the opposition, are trying to do an election campaign. ... Here, let's move on, because it's not true what you said and you know very well that I've never shut anyone up in my life and not even... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Maras, who now throws all the time and asks for a second warning and I don't know why. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on, Mr. Bacic, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, is it? ... Stanka, come in. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute recess to consult on behalf of the club on the continuation of this agenda item. Namely, I first intervened that the injured article... The Rules of Procedure, for the reasons that Mr Jovanovic, president of one parliamentary body, speaks for the speaker on behalf of all MPs who have appointed a commission whose head he is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore, when speaking on behalf of that committee, he must make sure that he speaks on behalf of SDP and HDZ and HNS and HSS and all other representatives. And to stay away at that moment, when he speaks for the club so when and... about your observation and your thinking, which I know well and that we all know very well together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But from the speech, representatives of the SDP Club and Mr Maras and Mr Bauk and Mr Bernardic, they do not know where they live, where the debates are at all. My colleague Bernardić said that today we are talking about HDZ affairs and that this is the topic. He's not a colleague of Maras, today we're talking about both corruption and SDP corruption. A lot of corrupt acts sublime this report, which applies to officials and the SDP, only you wouldn't talk about it, so Mr Jovanovic would put it as a medium so that at any time they could take the right to a pay phone and talk about religious affairs, about HDZ affairs. That's an important distinction. We support the debate, we support the report, but we do not allow the abuse of the functions of the president of this committee, so that here in the assembly, we will not allow it. We'll take your word for it, we've got a colleague named Babic who'll speak for HDZ when the time comes for HDZ to talk about it, we'll talk about what we think of ourselves and about others, so please. In this regard, call on a representative of the SDP each time. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132184	What I have to say is this, it's that here in the Parliament, first of all, you have the right, secondly, here in the Parliament to say people, not cars, not robots, and it's impossible not to, and when spoken in the name of one body, that tone of words, not to come the personal attitude of the president of that body. I've been president of one body for a long time, and I know that's how it is. We need to have a measure in all of this, I only appeal that we have a measure in all of this, and that one debate on corruption, that it will cause breaks, violations of the Rules of Procedure, and all that goes with it, I cannot intervene, so I will give everyone the word that requires legitimately in this case or the breach of the Rules of Procedure because the other has no or the breach of the Rules of Procedure or the rest. So Mr. Bauk had a breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132185	Mr. Vice President, you've made it a little bit easier on your attitude that I'm glad This is a formal matter of Article 235 concerning Article 235 concerning the replica. [[The same darkness I said before, Mr. Bauk, I said the same thing.]] Mr Jovanovic here is not the rapporteur of the working body, but is the promoter, and it is the same when Mr Reiner, for example, refers to Mr Reiner on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution. Proposed by the Rules of Procedure, when a person replicates to him, he does not convene a committee to respond to a replica. So I suggest that we put down the tensions here a little bit, to find out, that when they speak and on behalf of the committee they have the right to respond to the replica to give their opinion or to ban the replica of when the committee is a proposing and everything is fine. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Bauk, time, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132186	Is that there's no reason to discuss these finesse that you've now introduced, I mean there's really no reason, so we're going to give Mr. Maras a word to tell us which article he's hurt, as well as why.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132187	238th and 234th on my colleague Bačić, what I'm about to say is not finesse. This is a big deal. So Mr. Bačić, here suggests not to discuss HDZ, so the report is from 2017-2018 when HDZ is in power. On the other hand, I convey greetings from Rijeka to Mr. Bačić from Dolac Elementary School where he delivered food with larva. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132188	And what can I tell you now? Mr. Maras, unfortunately, second warning. With all the sympathy I have for you, I can't give you another warning. Here you go, sir. Wait a minute, after the break. I'm sorry. That Mr. Grmoya is now asking, yes, with you no longer having the right to speak, of course, about this wheel, about the other one. Here you go, Mr. Bolt. ... Because you didn't talk about the subject, because you love, you love, you love, you're welcome, Mr. Grmoy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132189	Honorable Vice President, you've expressed regret that on the subject of corruption the alarming atmosphere, which has so many replicas and warnings, I think that's good. I think this is the right topic and it would be good if here in the Croatian Parliament [[I didn't say sorry.]] It would be good if we talked more about corruption here in the Croatian Parliament, that there is no situation when we talk about corruption, that my colleague Bačić regrets that what is said about HDZ corruption, we are discussing 2017 means that in 2018, when HDZ is in power, with your help and your assistance. [[I have to interrupt, I didn't say, I said it was normal.]] And I don't think there's any reason why parliamentarians should be prevented from doing that. I would warn you and all parliamentary deputies that in the 2018 report, the European Commission has confirmed that Plenkovic's government has solidified Croatia in the last place in the EU, according to the criteria of political corruption and justice, which is on all sides, against the political influence of as much as 60%. Also, the World Economic Forum in the 2018 report means Plenkovic's government has further brought us down to 120th place on the world scale, so even countries like Zimbabwe and Serbia, where citizens have been protesting for weeks because of the corruption of the government led by Plenkovic's European family partner, so Mr. Vukic. I think this is an important topic, don't try to silence the MPs, it's good to discuss this much better than to discuss Ustashas and Partisans.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132190	Mr. Grmoya, I said it was normal, don't twist my words, don't tell the truth, I said it's normal when it comes to corruption that there are so many replicas, so many injuries to the Rules of Procedure and so many requests for breaks. And don't say I'm sorry because it's a lie. That's a lie. If you want, we can watch the stenogram, and you know it's a lie, you know. [[Mr. Vice President.]] But wait a minute. 10 minutes off, thank you. [[Intruder Maras: I must report on behalf of the club.]] It's 10.20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS]] It's been 10 minutes. We continue with replicas, the word or replica has Mr. Ivan Shuker I know, but you can't. [[Mr. Vice President, I answered, can I just say something?]] Mr. Jovanovic? [[Intruder: It's a common practice to be on behalf of...]] Yes, go ahead. [[No, no, it's okay. Thank you very much, sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would first of all like to commend the correct report you filed on behalf of the board, and for the replica I was offered two things you mentioned in your report, one is legal security, and the other is public procurement. But I'm not going to talk about it right now, just what's been going on makes me say something else. We had a report on the work of the State Audit Office the other day. All this stuff that colleagues and colleagues here are talking about, they could say then because that's when it's the place to say. It's not the work of this parliamentary committee. Second thing, at least 15 times you mentioned public procurement. If it's such a public procurement problem, then let's change the Public Procurement Act. Let's get this Public Procurement Act to that level so that all those failures in public procurement are simply eliminated. I can't always predict all things Let's change it. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] if you need five times a year. [[Mr. Schucker, time. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132193	Before I give my word to Mr Jovanovic, I will still give priority to the students and pupils of the Food and Technology School of Zagreb who are here and with us and we are glad that they are with us and we are pleased... Croatian Parliamentism. [[Applause.]] Answer, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132194	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. I agree fully with you, however, it was also an important topic of our not only thematic session, but also reports when we had the State Commission to control public procurement procedures, as well as our thematic session, as I said in the report, corruption risks to public procurement, where possible activities were being considered to ensure greater transparency and prevention of corruption risks, even on the basis of the adoption of a new law, as you said, which was one of the conclusions of the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132195	- Mrs. Crescent. Gordana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132196	Dear Vice President, my dear colleague Jovanovic. Here, I would also join this finding very comprehensively and well, however, I would point out what you said. If there had been exceptional progress in the anti-corruption measures itself, and above all, I would also refer to the transparency of the budget of the units of local self-government on the publication of the programme, the spending of funds, both for associations and for political parties, etc. This, therefore, is also a major contribution in order to make it clear how it is spent and how public funds are managed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132197	Mr. Jovanovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132198	Thank you very much, ma'am. It's a feather. This was also the goal of the National Council when we held the thematic session in Osijek, that on the principle of Osijek and the example of Osijek, which received the unconditional opinion of the state audit and all other tools showing the transparency of the budget and the ability of citizens to participate in both the creation of the budget and the monitoring of all budget items, which some cities have already achieved, to encourage this to be one, not an exception, but to show that throughout Croatia, in all units of local self-government, the transparency of the budget is an indication that citizens have greater confidence in local self-government, politics and politicians units and thus to advance the view that Croatia can and pay for fighting corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132199	Thank you. Now there's a word, so we're going to the clubs, Mr. Nikola Grmoy, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go, Mr. Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132200	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the National Council. Thank you for the report presented for the period from 27 October 2017 to 15 July 2018. During that period, I was elected a member of this HS working body, entrusted with supervisory functions to monitor the growth of corruption in Croatian institutions. Corruption, especially political corruption of the judiciary in Mr Plenkovic's prime minister's office, has escalated as never before and is one of the main reasons for mass eviction. After all, we were able to witness this political corruption here in HS, that trade that took place in the assembly of the majority, which now means HDZ, HNS Ivan Vrdoljak, Milan Bandic and his party, minorities, but also some MPs who were elected on the SDP list as representatives of Sauche. In the 2018 report, the EU Commission confirmed that Plenkovic's Government has solidified Croatia to its last place in the EU according to the criteria of political corruption of the justice system that is lagging on all sides, pressured by political influence. The disastrous results in the area of judicial corruption in Croatia have also confirmed the World Economic Forum in the 2018 report, which says that Plenkovic's government has further brought us down to 120th place on the world scale, so even countries like Zimbabwe and Serbia have passed us, and I talked about it already at the station, we all know that in Serbia the citizens are protesting for the corruption of the government led by Plenkovic's partner from the European public, so they are even better than we are, and in Serbia people have risen to protests. The established corrupt structure in the public institutions of the Republic of Croatia is increasingly acting against the interests of Croatian citizens whose report by the competent working body of HS, but reports by international organisations serve as a confirmation of the everyday life they face, those which the corrupt authority has not yet succeeded in evicting from its own state. According to the 2018 Croatian Statistics Institute report, in just one year of Prime Minister Plenkovic's term, the same number of citizens has moved out of Croatia as for the full 6-year term of former Prime Minister Sanader, means a person legally suspected of corruption. Plenkovic's structure proved credibility only in increasing the political corruption of the judiciary and in the subsequent exodus of Croats from their own country. The National Council's report found that the progress made from the implementation of the measures set out in the 2017 and 2018 action plan with the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period 2015-2020 but the European Commission and the World Economic Forum data as well as what we see with our own eyes prove that the achievement of bureaucratic measures in the action plan does not, unfortunately, reduce the political corruption of the judiciary in our country. However, the recording of corruption in state institutions is not the only task of the National Council to which I am a member because, as the report points out, the National Council, with registration, seeks to effectively detect and combat corruption, it is the task of this body. It is also true that the National Council is not an operational body and has no legal authority to carry out investigations nor can it impose sanctions on the launch of corrupt operations but the National Council as well as all other working bodies of the Assembly, in accordance with Article 44. Parliament's rules of procedure have the power to discuss the presentations and proposals that citizens submit to the parliament. One such written statement was first received by the National Council during the period covered by this report. On 19 February 2018, the above-mentioned presentation raised documented doubts about the participation of the highest representatives of the executive authority in the systematic cover-up of illegal spending and the acquisition of state money in embassies in Canberra and Washington. As President of the National Council, you delivered the presentation to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, for the sake of his knowledge, but as far as I know, the President of the Government of Plenkovic did not manifest himself to this play that exposes the corruption of his friends or acquaintances from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but also exposes the participation of Prime Minister Plenkovic in the above-mentioned law. Moreover, the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, said in the Parliament on 19 September 2018 that I quote such notions "most often lead nothing" and that on the same day under the management of Mr Jelinić, he rejected a lengthy criminal application without hearing the applicant. Contrary to the September announcement or the anti-constitutional interference of the school lawyer Plenkovic in the independence of the judiciary, the National Council held a public hearing in October, in which the Chief Inspector of the Ministry Damir Christmas was pressed with evidence, acknowledging that the secretary general of the ministry Bertosa Kushen, for years of violations of the rules, had been paid while being falsely deployed at the General Consulate in Sydney, where she had not even stayed, let alone worked. After that session of the National Council in November, Prime Minister Plenkovic signed the resolution of Mrs. Bertosa Kushen, from the post of chief secretary of the ministry, challenged his own words that such notions usually lead to nothing. For now, with the proactive approach of the National Council, this play has led to a shift which is a sign of a government signal whose officials, as we now see in recent cases, are scramblingly clinging to the chair when they break the laws of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, I find it particularly important that the National Council insists on the President of the Government to give a precise indication of all the allegations of an idea it has refused to respond to for over a year. I see that avoiding answering precise written questions is a favorite method of concealing the illegal spending of state money in Australia and the United States. As part of my parliamentary duties, I already on three occasions referred to Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric a parliamentary question on the details of the spending of state money during Mrs. Bertosha Kushen in Sydney. Minister Pejcinović Buric avoided the answer to my September parliamentary question as well as the question of November and for the third time precisely asked me a question, so I call on the present vice president of the Parliament here because those involved in the affair are friends and our President Gordan Jandrokovic, to take Mr. Radin to answer our questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. After 6 months. and 3 attempts, so I still haven't received answers from Minister Pejcinović Buric to my parliamentary issues which are materially related to a letter from the National Council that the President of Vlad Plenkovic has not been manifested for a year. However, in an effort to avoid my response, Minister Pejcinovic Buric uncannyly discovered that Mrs. Bertosha Kushen was not only faked in Sydney but also in Melbourne. So, Mrs. McNally. Bertosa Kushen in her resume listed only a fake schedule in Sydney and Melbourne did not mention it at all, so it will be more than interesting to crush all the corrupt loops involving Prime Minister Plenkovic and his foreign minister while protecting their friends or acquaintances involved in this affair. The concealment of lawlessness at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was thus escalated last fall, that Minister Pejcinović Buric, in late September, had also entered into the illegal denial and restriction of the right to private expression of all employees of the ministry, including social media, which was notified by the National Council on the basis of 25 February 2019. Moreover, the National Council of the same day, received a second submission, with a document that further proves that Minister Pejcinović Buric, but also DORH under the management of Cvitan and Jelinić, the suspect chief inspector of the ministry, allowed the manipulation of documents and witnesses in the process of determining their own, criminal and criminal responsibility. Therefore, diplomat Damir Sabelak, who has dared to report everything, had to be quick to disable access to documents that show systematic overlapping of the ministry's lawlessness, so the minister in October quickly removed the applicant from the service without evidence, which was confirmed 3 days ago by the official court, who asked the ministry to deliver evidence of charges against diplomats, who courageously testified here in the Croatian Parliament before the National Council. In electronic form, I will deliver both submissions, which arrived at the National Council on 25 February 2019 immediately after this debate to President Jandrokovic, who, in accordance with Articles 15 and 33 of the Rules of Procedure, please provide these documents to all of you dear colleagues, in order to be convinced of the disastrous situation in the body of the state administration responsible for foreign relations. Dear Mr. Jovanovic, I don't know if there's been any pressure on you, that you're not letting go of the light on illegal spending and the adoption of state money in Washington and Sydney, I thank you for holding that session, but the pressures were very high, in the end, we have a confession, we have a shift of the secretary-general, but we don't have this judicial epilogue, we have no confessions, we have no responsibility and I ask you, as well as all our colleagues in the National Council, to continue to question this case, because we have concrete evidence, about the false layout of the meaning of Mrs. Bertosha Kushen, which also means false capture, i.e. illegal acquisition of state money. And I'm just going to add one more cartoon here, and I'm going to deliver it to the National Council, and you'll see when I deliver it to you, how many official travels did Mrs. McNally have? Loretta Bertosha Kushen, while her husband determined whether she was going somewhere or not. And how much that number has shrunk since the other person was in that place. This says that these two people, who have taken advantage of the honorable position, means the presentation of Croatia, for their own interests, and that they protect them from the highest level of government, from the diameter of Plenkovic and from the foreign minister. So I hope and believe that the National Council to which you chair will resist all the pressures and continue to use all the opportunities to protect Croatian citizens from political corruption and I hope and believe that you will not agree to be an ordinary witness to the awakening of corruption that destroys Croatian society and the Croatian state. People no longer have time, young people and citizens are running away from our country, corruption is eating up this society, and we have a situation whenever one official is found in a particular scandal is recorded in ideological topics. Someone's hiding behind the rosary he's sharing, someone's hiding, and someone's hiding for the removal of the Bleiburg memorial, and someone's hiding for who knows what kind of things. Enough of this, so I promise the Croatian citizens here, I will not stop until this case is resolved, and this case is not some huge case of corruption, where great money is damaged by the state budget, but shows how the Croatian state works, how the Croatian government works and how the Croatian officials function. It is time to say a lot to corruption, which eats up Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132201	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, I must say one thing before, warned me Mr. Maras before, that I had given him another warning before, and that I had taken his word away, but not until the end of the debate, he's right, he's right. Now I'm going to give him, of course, he has the right now and the violation of the Rules of Procedure and speak and give the replicas. I'll keep in mind that there are two warnings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132202	Thank you very much for stopping at the defense of parliamentaryism and withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132203	Thank you. Let's move on, Mr Bernardic, on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132204	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, some facts should be said at the beginning, Croatia has achieved a 48-point score on the scale of the perception index, corruption in 2018, which is significantly lower than the average of Western Europe and the EU, which is 66 points, and in fact shows that corruption in the public sector in Croatia is considered a very widespread phenomenon. This unfortunately continued Croatia's negative trend compared to 2017 and 2016 when it scored 49 points and 51 points in 2015. These are Transparency International data showing that on a scale of perception of corruption in the last three years we are sinking among all the more corrupt countries in the world. The only period during which Croatia has managed to stop a negative trend and find itself in a society of countries that are better placed on corruption is the period of the last SDP government. At the time, Croatia had 51 points in 2015, which placed it in a society of less corrupt countries. The same report further points out that non-transparent appointments, decision-making procedures, and insufficient readiness to resolve corruption and suspicion of corruption have contributed to a drop in confidence in the work of the government itself. But how could you not if actually the government of the Republic of Croatia is one of the biggest generators of corruption affairs and scandals. Today is the time to remember all HDZ affairs. Because there's a lot of them, I apologize in advance if I'm going to leave someone out of it unwittingly. The first affair of the Borg, the biggest corruption affair in Croatia's history, the affair of all affairs in which hundreds of millions of euros were drawn from those who wrote the law lex Agrokor and under the prime minister's patronage. Although he claimed he did not know about the Borg group, evidence later appeared that confirmed that he was just part of the same Borg group, so the prime minister lied. Secondly, the INA affair where Plenkovic finished the job that Ivo Sanader started, not long ago said that INU would return to Croatian hands, he lied again, after meeting with Orban, changed the law allowing Hungarians to fully take over INU. Third, the affair planes i.e. The failed purchase of fighter aircraft that Croatian citizens should have paid as much as 3 times as expensive. This affair cost us 100,000 euros without realisation, cost us international reputation, combat preparedness but interesting in this affair, in fact, the former company of Minister Krstičević was prepared for the jobs of maintaining these same aircraft, which, behold, were supposed to be three times more expensive. Although the prime minister claimed he had not received any warning papers, the US ambassador literally exposed him, so the prime minister lied again. The Uljannik affair, where mysteriously unintended money was spent, where the money that the government knows about all the events is missing, has all the reports on the table, over 2 years and on this issue is doing nothing. Because it is a well-known HDZ model of management and rehabilitation of the shipyard, I untransparently choose a partner, give money to a private partner, he invests in the marina instead of in the shipyard, drives the workers off the road and later builds more hotels and complexes at the site of the shipyard. That's the model. In the same case, no sign of a voice to the attorney general. Furthermore, the SMS affair leading to the very top of HDZ has shown that insider accounts in HDZ use intelligence underground services. The affair also warned of all weaknesses and deeply compromised the DORH itself. An affair of elite prostitution, which directly burdens Plenkovic's deputy, Brkic, for giving away police secrets and obstructing investigations into the affair of breaking the chain of elite prostitution. Minister Murganic's affair, where instead of a gift intended for poor children, she gave these gifts in private kindergartens, actually shows the general direction of this government. In addition, Minister Murganic remained remembered for statements such as violence, such as that in your marriage, where she reacted to violence against a woman in the family, she also proposed a disastrous Family Law by which marriage defined her as a community of men and women in whom she must be children and the Household Act has denied the rights of living partners. And actually about her, not to waste my word was all her former secretary, Marin Strmota, when he publicly resigned from the cameras and her key demographic reconstruction project called her a laurdiment. Furthermore, the affairs of Minister Žalac, who is known to have, under suspicious circumstances and untransparently tried to allocate funds from EU funds, by principle, the fastest finger. That's when the whole contest was annulled because of a doubt of guessing. To remind you, this is the same minister who withdrew only 17% of the funds that Croatia is entitled to from the European Funds, but what to expect from the minister who is actually 3 years unable to extend the driver's license. We move on to the affairs of Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, everyone knows that Minister Maric came from Agrokor, despite claiming that Agrokor was in trouble lobbying for 400 million kuna of HABOR credit to the fallen Agrokor. Afterwards, he became a great savior of Agrokor, and together with Prime Minister Plenkovic and former Minister Dalic participated in the work of the Borg group, which wrote a special law for Agrokor to make the same advisers rich in advisory services later. The latest in a series of his affairs is the appointment of his own sister in HANFU, in a department which he was about to write a positive report on the wonders of Agrokor. Furthermore, the affairs of Minister Tolusic such as imports of infected meat from Poland or the affair in which the director's father from the agency under Tolusic's ministry has been using pastures for years without kuna compensation and killing incentives. This last one is only one in a series of stories of favoring relatives and families when it comes to HDZ. Because I will remind you that Prime Minister Plenkovic, in the affair of the appointment of his godfather Igor, showed as ambassador to the United Kingdom, said, I quote "I hired a man because I know him 24 years old," but this is not the only employment from the Plenkovic family circle. It should be recalled that Prime Minister's wife Ivan Maslac's brother has become the second man in Dubrovnik's airport. It is difficult in view of all these numerous affairs being held in power, which is why Plenkovic, in agreement with Bandic, went into action to buy hands in HS so-called. Bandic's chips, in order to have a guaranteed majority, but not to mention, it may be best confirmed by the president of the Bandic club Jankovic, who quoted "the conditions for entering the Bandic club as supporting Andrej Plenkovic". Therefore, the current HS assembly no longer reflects the will of citizens and political corruption has lagged. Along with all the numerous affairs, HDZ Interior Minister Bozinovic and HDZ's chief state lawyer, Jelenic, do absolutely nothing about it. That's how it gets the impression that they're actually protecting corruption and crime. Because of all the above-listed affairs, citizens lose confidence in the country's institutions, are bothered by corruption, are disturbed by crime, can no longer endure nepotism and employment on the party and family lines, and therefore move out daily. I will remind you that in the last year of this government, the Republic of Croatia has left over 130 000 people, which is the HDZ image of the Republic of Croatia, an exodus. However, in order not to report on affairs, every possible attempt is made to pressure journalists. The last such case is a police raid in the newsroom of a Zagreb portal aimed at scaring a journalist under the orders of HDZ's mayor, Žinic. So it's no surprise that according to the media freedom index... published by border-free reporters, the Republic of Croatia falls into the freedom of the media. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first data for 2016 say that the Republic of Croatia was 63rd place, while we were placed in a record 69th place for 2018. For the freedom of journalism we are behind Samoa, Ghana, Burkina Faso, Senegal, Tonge, Papua New Guinea and Niger. Therefore, journalists rightly raised their voice and launched the action "You have kidnapped the media, we do not give journalism", which best describes the state of the media in the Republic of Croatia. It is an absurd situation that journalists in the Republic of Croatia are more often in the courtroom today than in the newsroom. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the institutions responsible for the control and balance of political powers to ensure the operation of anti-corruption mechanisms without intimidation, and to reduce the existing differences between anti-corruption legislation. These institutions should support free and independent media, ensure the safety of journalists and enable their work without intimidation and harassment. Although the prime minister would like us to forget everything, not to mention the affairs, that journalists are silent and that the whole situation is dedramatic so that this government can continue in silence systematically destroying the country, I am telling him from this place, will not pass, but paseran.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132205	Okay. It is now in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132206	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here on this point I have prepared myself in a completely different way, in fact following only a report and as vice-president of the National Council for monitoring the anti-corruption strategy, but since Mr Bernardic abused this report and actually wanted to talk about some alleged HDZ affairs related to this report, I will remind him of some of the things he needed to clean up in his backyard, in order to be credible in front of the Croatian public about possible and alleged HDZ affairs. Let me remind you that it's 2012. The SDP government appointed HANFA and HANFA was then actually supposed to react to the excessive duties of Agrokor when the problems of Agrokor began and that did not happen. Guarantee-related guarantee, 3. May, Victor Lenac, in fact, you gave and brought them into this situation where they are today. You forgot the Sabo affair with a final verdict, I think and believe that you remember Mr. Minister of Agriculture Mr. Jakovina, Milanka Opačić, I believe that you remember Mr. Miranda Mrsic and the entire affair, him and his wife regarding the Medikol affair, the Law on Pre-war settlement, the affair of Spačva, you remember Mr. Shegon or Mr. Antesic, he was a pearl, a pearl in those affairs, Minister Zlatar Violić, etc., etc., that I am not talking about Mayor Merzel, Merzel-Lovrić. But I will still go back to what we need to talk about today and what is actually the president of the National Council in his opening presentation, and that would be good, not just for us here in HS, but for the sake of all the public, to actually fight to root out corruption in Croatian society. So, I'm based on an art. 2., paragraph 1. and what Mr Jovanovic was saying, the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is obliged to actually submit the HS report twice and this report relating to the period from 27 October to 15 July 2018, therefore, for 9 months. The National Council is not an operational body or has no legal authority to conduct investigative activities, nor can it impose sanctions for the launch of corrupt actions what it actually appealed and spoke to Mr Grmoy in the possession of MOST. All that we got from Mr. Grmoya as a national council we passed on to the authorities. The National Council may propose measures to improve the prevention of corruption through the Anti-Corruption Strategy as it does and is visible if you have read this report in which it has actually been detailed through work in these 10 months to which the report relates. To make it clear to the public, it should be said that on 27 February 2015, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period from 2015 to 2020. The strategy sets out the general objective of preventing corruption or the management of its risks in public administration, units of local self-government and regional (area) self-government, public authorities, companies in which the state has ownership shares. How this is achieved, we often discuss this on the national council, so responsibility and transparency, strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms, more effective detection and control of corruption, consistent implementation of the legislative framework, strengthening cooperation with civil society, the active and objective role of the media and developing international cooperation. The strategy itself set out 7 horizontal objectives of integrity within the political system and administration, public procurement, units of local and regional self-government, preventing conflicts of interest, the right to access information, but also specific objectives through the judiciary, the economy, public finances, agriculture, health, education and sport and infrastructure and the environment. Following this strategy, the Government adopted its Action Plan for 2017 and 2018. The Action Plan itself monitors the strategy and has 126 activities of which 81 or 2% are actually met, and 30 holders of these activities are mainly ministries, agencies and institutions and those measures they are actually obliged to implement. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Of course, all measures are not met. Based on the National Council's action plan, 9 regular sessions were held, mostly presenting the activities of individual actors of the action plan. Members of the National Council are familiar with all the activities carried out but also with those not for objective reasons and are insisted on them and actually monitored their course. It should be noted that all reports, therefore all reports of the operator of the activity, have been accepted unanimously. In addition to regular meetings of the National Council, and by asking the public, the most throughout the media and social events of the National Council, precisely because of the public's interest, held 4 thematic, in my opinion, extremely good sessions precisely because of this public interest and showing the problem of corruption in certain segments, i.e. recommendations and strengthening the social awareness to change this. So there was a session of corruption risks in public procurement that we were talking about here early in the morning, so according to the perception index, it's one of the key problems in the Republic of Croatia. And Mr. Schucker talked about it, and it's up to us if we see that it's not a good thing to actually pass a new Public Procurement Act, or to improve it, changes and additions are made. The second session was related to the strategy and action plans to curb corruption and was called yesterday, today, tomorrow, was actually about the International Anti-Corruption Day. The main message was that there must be no perception in society that corruption is worth it, this is very important for the public to struggle with corruption in any society, but there must be no perception in society that corruption is worth it. The third session was the importance of media freedom in the fight against corruption, it was tied to World Freedom Day media but it is indicative that none of the main editors of men's string media actually attended, journalists attended. And the fourth session was corruption and clientelism at local level, causes, mechanisms and consequences. So this session was held in Osijek symbolically because Osijek was actually one of the few cities that received the unconditional opinion of the state-run, state-run audit. So, I would like to point out once again, perhaps the president did not stress enough at these national council meetings both academic and professional public and all those who want to be interested in the problem of corruption. All the sessions are open to the public they are recorded, there are phonograms from these sessions and in fact you can see how and how individual entities, individual institutions think and how they fight corruption. The National Council, as the working body of the assembly, received complaints from citizens, and during this period of 9 months we received 16 applications and performances, and it seems to me 4 anonymous applications, were of those 16 applications submitted to the competent authorities to 15 of them, and we forwarded them to citizens who had enquiries. Some while I am talking about this report, it may seem that the Anti-Corruption Strategy or action plan, which can be heard by individual parliamentary representatives, is a dead letter on paper and is not spoken of because corruption in Croatian society is emerging. However, it is not so that I will visit you that both this strategy and the action plan have implemented several laws that certainly contribute to this fight against corruption. And the Law on Access to Information Rights and the Law on the Finance of Political Parties and the Law on whistles, on conflict of interest etc., etc., so they have greatly contained corruption and we read about it in the media every day, therefore, and through the Commission on Conflict of Interest and through the very process of public procurement control, so we can all bear witness, that this is both transparent and public, of course, I will not say that there are no certain concerns, that some things may not be done in the way that we want to but are certainly being implemented. The fact is also that media and social networks actually contribute to one negative atmosphere of curbing corruption in the Republic of Croatia, creating a picture of total corruption at all levels in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that you are also aware of it daily. So, from politicians, who are corrupt by defolt, about priests, church credentials who are paedophiles, teachers who are bribed, doctors who receive bribes neatly, public legal authorities, who receive an employee at a fee, etc. etc. So, in our society it becomes all speculative, and it is not good and it creates a bad social climate and we need to fight both through this report and at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament. So, we need to imagine what that is about, and what to do to make ourselves as parliamentarians to fight corruption, to be more public, more transparent, and to be as little in our society as possible. Corruption itself is as old as human society. All of us who think that there is more or less corruption in Croatia, no society is an immunological institution for corruption, not one. Corruption is certainly evil and unacceptable behavior, which destroys one sense of justice and trust in power and this negativity of corruption, may not be immediately visible, but the damage that corruption creates in the economy, in politics in society, in fact, we all pay in the long run. The question arises, whether criminal measures are sufficient and whether they can actually produce results. Penalties, which we discussed on the National Council, will in fact not in itself produce results unless the social consciousness changes and reaches a democratic political culture, but also education and home education, if you want school or religious. Corruption is a global problem and it is an international character. In particular, the devastating consequences of morale, in particular business morality, were also mentioned by Mr Jovanovic, saying how much lower we are on the scale... by the number of points, so much less GDP, or less investment in our society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As such, it is most recognizable through bribery, but it is related to nepotism, clientism, lobbying and protection, which we have put particular emphasis on through the thematic sessions of the National Council. For example, two studies, which I read about, say that 10 9 Croats are corrupt. So, he doesn't like just bribery, if we were to paint it on the Croatian Parliament of 151, 140 of us are corrupt, under the same research. So corruption doesn't necessarily have to be bribery, but it can also be nepotism, it can be customerism, it can be lobbying or protection itself. So let's ask ourselves, are we in one of these forms of corruption? So you'll see, it's very hard to talk about it and it's hard to root out corruption in view of us, our climate, our metal assembly, our custom, our tradition, that way. Church dignitaries also speak of corruption as a disease in Croatia in Croatia, even some say sin can be forgiven, and corruption cannot be treated because it needs to be treated. It is up to all of us to create and influence the social world, our citizens, that corruption is not worth it, that it represents a socially unacceptable color, which directly endangers human rights, destroys morality, and threatens the stability and progress of the state. Metaphorically speaking, being and nature corruption are like weeds, which are highly adaptable to changing conditions, and that mutates very quickly. Finally, the fight against corruption has no alternative and is a basic prerequisite for the development of an open and democratic society. The fight against corruption involves the application of a wide range of instruments, from preventive to educational, to repressive and criminal legal action. Strengthening the institutions of strong legal regulations, as well as the public who is following this dangerous social phenomenon. With us, the fact that corruption is politicized, from those who need to deal with corruption, to those who participate, this fight against corruption is becoming inefficient. And what many in Croatia think but publicly say, that only from corruption in Croatia is a worse fight against corruption, and we must not let that happen and we must not end this debate. So the HDZ Club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132207	Thank you. We have one breach from Mr. Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132208	Thank you, Vice President, so in violation of Art. 238. from counterpart Babic, he would agree with this part means where he spoke about corruption, how harmful it is to Croatian society. But when he spoke of SDP's insubordinations, he mentioned one MP, who is now part of the ruling majority, or, in their touch, it's Mrs. SDP. Milanka Opačić, so I don't know who he's transferring it to, transferring it to, to Milanka Opačić or only to the SDP, here, as just one correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132209	It was more of a replica, but let's move on, Mr. Vlaovic in front of the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132210	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Croatian Peasant Party Club. We will say a few more words about the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. First of all, corruption is evil and it is unacceptable in all societies, so it should also be in Croatia. We have a strategy to combat corruption and we have a lot of debate about it, but it moves very little or little. From today's perspective, it's hard to believe that sometimes not even so long ago from the HDZ ranks at the time of Jadranka Kosor shrubs here from the pay phone and the public, the zero tolerance rate towards corruption. Then comes the SDP authorities, and comes again HDZ through the Government of Karamark and Plenkovic, and corruption is beginning to be blatantly silent or even more so through activities and policies that advocate and implement corruption. And in this report, what got me caught in the eye is that there are constant shifts in the fight against corruption to have them. So amazingly, how can such a thing be written if we have a Transparency International report for 2018 where the corruption perception index in Croatia received 48 points and recorded a drop from 49 to 48th European average is 66 and we live in a country that is by corruption in front of many African countries, living in a country that is at the bottom of European member states. We live in a country according to international institutions, which are said to be darkening more than 20 billion kuna annually. 20 billion kunas, darken, that's what's in the gray zone. And it's amazing that we say in this report that there is a shift. In particular, the HSS and I were surprised by the statement made by Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic this week in Germany, where she spoke about the situation in Croatia and the potential attraction of investments and investors in Croatia, where she said that corruption is not such a problem but is a problem with the slow judiciary. Well it is clear that it is one network of politics, power to the judiciary itself and that it is the main backbone of the octopus of corruption, in Croatia it is, of course, going from the judiciary, but although it is or should be independent, it still has a lot of influence on the implementation of corrupting actions because the trials in Croatia are too long-running, they often go into obsolescence and those main actors are not convicted or what is even worse judgments are annulled for formal reasons. And in such circumstances it is amazing that Mr Plenkovic, in his report on the review, shuts down the part about corruption on the European Commission's report and the report says that corruption is considered extremely widespread in Croatia and that Croatia is among the worst members and there is no progress. And what is particularly important to us here in the Parliament is that legislative solutions do not provide strong enough tools to fight corruption, the European Commission says. So legislative solutions don't provide strong enough tools. And that is where we must jointly make efforts to change the laws or to pass laws that we have tools that this committee that monitors the implementation of the strategy can ask the Government, ministries and other state bodies for a more active approach to curbing corruption and that this index of perception of corruption in Croatia is not 48 but to get closer to the European average, or 66. The impression is that there is no real fight against corruption in Croatia, that it is the fight of David and Goliath. And what's worst is that citizens don't believe in society, in the system, in the institutions. We've heard how perceptive it is to the Parliament, to the government, and these are very low procedures, and we all need to be concerned. Especially when we have information from surveys with people who have left Croatia and hundreds of thousands of people have left Croatia, especially from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and other undeveloped areas. It went with the belly after bread, and most say they're running away from this mess, because of this thieving thief who rules here, because of this toad. And especially should it be pointed out that nothing will change as a message from the ruling that elections are not important anyway, post-election trade is important. And we from HSS, according to the state bodies, have warned the state's attorneys about this and asked for an implementation, an investigation into how most of the city of Zagreb was created, in the Zagreb Assembly, and how most of them were created here in the Croatian Parliament, and we still have no answers, so I ask where they came from with these processes, and we will look for a report on whether we have properly stated that mandates are being purchased. And when mandates are purchased, then messages are sent from the government's position not important elections or the vote of citizens and then messages and corruption are sent, because it is the largest form of corruption when the government is corrupted through the bought-out commercial majority. And apparently, Croatia continues to be announced by Mr Tudjman, the first president to create 200 wealthy families in Croatia, as well as several thousand of their supporters who will serve them. That we are right that nothing concrete wants to change, nor to bring tools, or laws that would be more active in fighting corruption, and could certainly make more significant moves because the fact that here has not yet been put on the agenda in the House of Law proposed by the CNS on the Law on the Origin of Assets. We have given this proposal the opportunity for this government to pass this law in this House, that it has a state-owned tool for all those with assets whose value exceeds the value of their declared incomes, I say deliberately declared revenues, that these assets be deducted from them and that they are charged with all that difference between income and asset value. Why isn't that law in the process? Obviously, it doesn't work out for someone because they'd probably get hurt by some on the right and left who have been in power so far. And I would especially point out what I have often said here and there when it comes to corruption related to Agrokor, through lex Agrokor, through the Borg group and the backbone is everything that happened only when international financial institutions warned the state of Croatia and the competent state authorities that the financial reports were faked and that the bonds were issued without cover. I asked here and the Prime Minister several times and those who led the process through the Lex Agrokor how many bonds were issued, to whom they amounted, who issued them and whether any of them would be charged. We didn't get the answers, and I'm glad that here's the State's Attorney's Office launched a process to investigate this part of the covert funding of Agrokor Group, and it's right that suppliers are wondering if we're the only ones to blame. Their representative said everything was done in accordance with the Exchanges Act and other positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia. So we have to ask ourselves what she asked the public and whether there was a hidden funding by the state, whether it was not a charge or a disorderly VAT from Agrokor group and what it was with this responsibility and who would be responsible for having some different access and when inspections were in question and when it was VAT collection, whether it was a hidden financing if it wasn't a concession or if it wasn't a lease from agricultural land and I would mention that famous island of Smokvica. And with the right of representatives and suppliers to ask and where are those who defiled the mustache and there are them, and these are banks and factoring societies, and they rightly ask where the state was, where the CNB was, where the HANFA was, if there were any responsibilities. This is one of the branches of corruption that finally seems to be moving towards decommissioning although we from HSS do not believe that there will be legal truth or that anyone will respond because, as by law, more than 500 million kunas from Agrokor draw a group of Borg, so probably no one here will answer, and then we can certainly expect that the corruption perception index in Croatia will grow closer to 66 than it will probably continue to fall below 48% because it is obvious that this authority, primarily party authority, political authority is interested only in power, most in the Parliament, most of them in the government and how the Croatian people live, how they work and live entrepreneurs, is best depicted by the recently announced news that the workman or the worker, a group of workers who worked for a certain time, changed their working relationship at a certain time but did not do so at 24 hours because he was punished even though no one was damaged, but the workers had made a concession that they had to pay for 24 hours. This is how we treat entrepreneurs, that's how we attract investors and the European Commission's report on corruption speaks enough just plainly, the government didn't want to publicize it, but here's what the media said, so thank you very much. Here's the HSS will accept this report but it's clear that there's no movement but even more so, we've moved down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132211	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic. We will now welcome the students and students of the Tourist and Food School from Bjelovar, thank you for being with us, nice to have you here. And let's move on, now it's Mr. Branimir Bunjac's turn in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club, here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132212	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about corruption today and we are all complex, opposition and power that corruption exists in Croatia. We read these analyses internationally, we listen to our citizens, how many, 90% of citizens believe that there is corruption in Croatia, especially in the judiciary, etc. So there's no difference, it can be a member of HDZ, the Most, the Living Wall, the SDP, we all think the same, interestingly, a general consensus has been reached on the issue. And then we have to ask ourselves, and then who is this corruption, is that corruption some kind of energy that exists in the air, like these cell waves, or is some people's corruption real with a name and a last name? Does corruption have a name and name? That's the interesting question. And if we think about it a little bit, we'll get to one quite logical answer very soon, and that's that the main source of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is politicians. They generate corruption, they create it, they perpetuate it and maintain it at this point. And then if we know which source it is, the main source, I repeat, the main one, not the only one, then we can ask ourselves how many politicians in Croatia were ever responsible for corruption? Give me a reminder, please, of a judgment of power, and here I can't remember. Never anyone. So that a politician as a fol would be responsible for corruption, he must first be politically eliminated from his own party, so he must in some way remove it but even then, even then, he will never actually end up in prison. It will end for a few days until bail is collected I don't know how many millions of kunas it takes, as for the mayor of Zagreb, and then it will be released and his trial will last until the day of judgment. In principle, or the judge dies, or I die in that time. And then you have, say, former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, whom I'm being tried for, if I counted well, for at least six cases of corruption that by nine years later today is completely free, in his rights equal to all of us, the man who didn't, not only responsible for corruption, but not one single kuna back in the budget and laughing at us, laughing at us, what you fools want from me, so you know who I am, Ivo Sanader, that nobody can do anything to me and never will, I bought my freedom. And then you have a situation, I don't know, that in June this same Sanader should be tried for I don't know the Fimi Media, he's a poor guy so seriously sick, he can't stand on his feet, he can't come to court, and in July, a month later, the same Sanader super healthy, jumps at games in Russia, and when they see Croatian citizens, that soul hurts because of it, they say what the state is, so it's a disgrace, a mockery of the state, so this man who's accused of, I don't know, hundreds of millions of kunas that he's stolen, he's laughing in our face. It's important to point out that he has some inadmissible verdicts, this, that, but it's important to say that people understand, only if you have an inadmissible verdict longer than 5 years, then you go straight to prison, if you have less than 5 years. Then you don't go to jail, but you can complain again, etc., etc. And just by chance in the case of Mountain Ivo Sanader was sentenced to 4.5 years, to 4.5, the effect of that none, must pay 17 million kuna, did not return 17 limes, and his accomplices who were accused of taking 15 million, they were sentenced to work for the common good, work for the common good, that's it. We had a tycoon sentence yesterday that's been tried for 7 years, 4 years. And 10 months he got, where exactly 4 and 10, like he didn't get it for 5 years and 1 month and he stayed at large again and Minister Bosnjakovic said I washed my hands, now he can complain, while he complains, I'll run out of mandate, my concern is to move on to another, the murderer of two people, can run for president of the Republic tomorrow, so maybe he becomes who knows. And on the other hand, we have a case, and here I was last weekend at Grandma Boseljka Kovacevic's in Lika, old lady 86, 85. She made a brandy, 50 liters of brandy, with an unauthorized solution, so she paid permission to bake brandy, but it didn't run out that 15-day deadline, she started burning before that, the tax collectors came to her door, they took that brandy, the whole and on the spot charged her 2,000.00 kn fines. Grandma Mink from Ivanca, whom I also visited, did not pay 3 bills for water, was taken to prison for 4 days and had to be, every day included 250,00 kn until she paid a thousand kuna for 4 days. Why don't those rules apply to everyone? Mr. Sanader, 17 million kunas you've taken, we're going to apply the rule of Grandma Bosilke and Grandma Minke or one right back, pay the fine or two, go to jail, and serve 250,00 kn per day, so until she pays off 17 million kuna, it's going to be 87 centuries. Why do you gentlemen of Parliament think that Eve Sanader's life is worth more than the life of Grandma Minka, every life is the same, every man has his rights that he's given birth to the same God of the day and the same, and you're creating a society where someone has all the rights, and the other one has no right, that's your responsibility, your responsibility, each and every one of you who sits here and who isn't there, it's the mirror of this HS, and we don't need to be surprised at this information that only 8% of the citizens trust HS and that only 4% trust political parties. If you're not ashamed to be in this homage of HS, I'm ashamed, ashamed of myself every day when I walk through this door. While people don't have, while people don't have, I don't know, to pay the bill for the water, like Minka, the president of the HGK, at least according to the testimony of the penitent that we could hear two weeks ago, a million euros in cash on the table, imagine how big that table is to cost him a million euros in cash, when we know there's no bills bigger than, I don't know, 500,00 Euros. What is the responsibility, the trial is still going on, for 6 years there is no first-degree verdict, in Austria the first-degree verdict is made in 3 weeks, for 6 years there is no first-degree verdict and who then believes this country, then who wants to stay here at all, admit to yourself in your soul that you would not even mind your own children to leave the Republic, what can you offer them, what can we promise them here, what justice? What future? What perspective? Can Croatia even be called state if we have such a miserable state as we have? He says, 8 billion kuna went to Ulnik is minus, etc. In Brodosplit a billion-and-a-half. Who signed the Privatization of Brodosplit? Privatization of Brodotrogir? Privatisation 3. Maya? The path of the Prime Minister and Ivan Vrdoljak and HNS. The sanctions, that today he's in HDZ's government. He's still being rewarded. He's still being rewarded. Tomorrow they'll want to enter the Government of the Living Wall. But he won't. That's right. So you just turn over your coats and keep going. Tell me, if the Oil Man took 8 billion kunas and didn't make a single ship, where's the money? Where's the money? If Brodosplit took a billion and a half kuna, he didn't build a single ship, is that a shipyard? Can he drink a baker so he doesn't bake bread? What are we talking about? Tell me, where did the Croatian taxpayers' money go? Why in December last year did we have to give 4.5 billion kuna to save the Oilies, and we see that it wasn't saved? Do you agree with that? If you agree, give it to me, you who are here, now bring me every thousand kunas. So who in their right mind can accept that? And yet there's no responsibility. And the same Fatty, who got it from Vrdoljak Brodosplit, now Minister Horvat is offering him an Oily. Remember, good night. What happened, I don't know, with this Agram affair in Zagreb? The same thing over 20 million kunas have gone. There's nothing to this day. Normally, I understand that you're going to ask me now what's the solution, you're going to say okay, MP Bunjac, you've now been scrutinizing all this here, and what solutions are you offering? So I'm offering solutions, or the Living Wall, first that corruption is contained in judicial reform. Justice. It can do this HS. All corruption trials, especially those for politicians and public figures, three months to reach a verdict. There's no verdict, the judge's getting rid of it. Next, the Law on the Origin of Assets, we've already given it to the procedure, might be on the agenda in a few days. Get the IRS to write down everything a politician has. Anything, if necessary, forks, socks and toothpicks. Everything. So let's see with your salary, how much you deserve in one term and what you've earned. Cancel custody accounts. What kind of custody accounts? Bills with no names and no last names. That's bullshit. In the custody accounts in Croatia, 75 billion kuna, it needs to be abolished, to see who owns these accounts. If safes are to be removed, if offshore accounts should be banned, if money should be exported from the country to the politician, if the Goli Island should be reopened. Except for the politicians, but not this time because of their views, but because of corruption. Persecuting bandits. To force fear into their bones, to think six times whether or not he extended the driver's license, which card he pulls or doesn't pull, which phone he has in his pocket, private or official. That's what we should do. Now, when citizens see, when such a society is created, then Croatia will be reborn. Not only will Croatia be reborn because of the justice that will arise, but because of the money that will return to the budget. With stolen money and money from corruption, GDP will grow 6% to 7% a year, not 2-3%. That would be the solution, and I'll tell the rest in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132213	It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132214	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Jovanovic... The National Council itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, very briefly just introspective, although this topic is quite broad and I see that everyone is using it, I'm going to look back at something that's already said, which is mentioned and something that is actually the topic of the agenda itself. So, first of all, the main tool of the National Council is just to monitor the implementation of the strategy, a strategy that applies for the period from 15-20 which has been adopted. A strategy that has certain horizontal objectives, strategic areas, so where everything is stated in which guidelines of integrity within the political system, local, regional self-government, public procurement, companies in majority state ownership, prevention of conflicts of interest, which has been quite relevant lately and since and since the Commission itself has been created, more and more, the right to access information, the role of civil society organisation etc. So these are some basic measures that, Benchmarking, are based on which we make certain recommendations, tips, in the end line, on which perception is based. We need to know that, there are colleagues and mentioned, so, corruption itself, we have one that's rightly proven, which we can say so much and so much and we have what we all think is and what we all think is actually what ranks, which brings that index, and that's where we all absolutely fall, because that perception is bad. And it's not bad for the last year, it's not bad for the last three years, so I think it's kind of a consequence of transition states, especially transition states, but it's definitely something we still have to work on. This is how people see us, how people see the system of functioning of public authorities, and we need to know that in corruption and for the crime of bribery we have both giving and receiving and encouraging. So it's not just a one-way street, so it's a mirror where we see the other side, we see ourselves, and we have to go from ourselves. So that's what we have to change and the mind of consciousness that can be somehow different, can't, can't, just as it is equal to everything. Why? We know that corruption is the cancer of every society's wounds, because it does direct damage, it reduces the perspective, the future of citizens. Is this his future related to education, to getting a job, to making money, anything, but that's what individuals, or broader spectrum, when I talk about society, are reducing opportunities, to simply be, to do what they have the right to do, is that work, is that access information, is access to equal access to employment, whatever. And that's why this perception is very crucial and important, and that's why it's measured. Not by the number so much, which is just as important as how good or bad the judiciary is doing to us and how fast, slow or not, we'll also agree that it can always be and should be faster, but what we think about it ourselves. And here's the question actually how to change it, there are some measures listed, I'll just mention it. Enhancing the integrity, accountability and transparency of the public authority, central and responsible. The integrity, the perception of people in the state government, where our parliament is, where our government is, where our president is, where the other perceptions of the other state services and local services are, first that. Because people have the impression that anything can be done, it'll be easy, we'll agree, and that's where the first step goes towards corruption, the possibilities of perception. Stronger co-operation between the public authorities and strengthening the capacity of those in charge to carry out activities aimed at combating corruption, that is how we act, how we correct and how the people would say the wrong Drina. It also strengthens awareness of the causes and consequences of corruption and the role of each individual citizen on the prevention of corruption, which is exactly what I'm talking about. So everyone commits, and with it can end, anyone who knows it is obliged to report it, not to fold their shoulders, and that's because of that shruging shoulders, and that's how people leave us. Because a public service job has already been held in mind, it is only through some agreement, a party, whatever relationships you want to call it because not a few times probably these people have come to the attention that this is the case. And they're already losing any hope of even reporting because it's just a waste of time and a fig leaf serving these contests. When we speak here what is the most apostrophe apropo of this last week I will every week and announce this change of the Law on civil servants or encourage to enter a single competition for all state and public servants in the public sector by modelling the European Commission, by modelling this institution.../incomprehensible/... we have such an institution already here is called the External Valuation Agency and let it conduct a single and unique competition and we have a unique evaluation, a single table. And then from that, we call people according to the rank list. Here, it's an apostrophe of public procurement, so it's not only illegal, but what's practically one model that maybe we geniuses could do, legal corruption, in a way that you have two extremes in public procurement, or only one thing that can be done, and then just look at the statistics, and you can see that according to certain jobs, when you have only one possible supplier, the amount of price you get compared to the estimate is at 97%. And when you have where the competition is, where they appear at 5, 6, 10, then the amount of the price reached is about 60, 70%. What does that tell us? Again the second thing, the lowest price in public procurement, it's the same big problem, we've changed the law now we've made some criteria, economic criteria, but they're not good enough. Sometimes it's not even the lowest price solution, because in the long run it's more expensive again. The company collapses, goes bankrupt, you can't even charge a guarantee, you can't get anything.../incomprehensible/... second, things that took 30 years to last 3, 5 because they were purposely made worse, which was the cheapest, you can't say anything. The regulation itself, so this part of public procurement corruption begins, starts in writing the very conditions of competition. And sometimes it's all in accordance with the law, all the tenders have passed in accordance with the law, but we can't get the impression that it's just as we say tele-directed. But I say again, surely all of this must come from ourselves, and we must be the ones who will not encourage it, not seek opportunity, but report and remove it, from ordinary citizens and to those whose integrity should not be at stake, and unfortunately, some times it turns out to be. I am pleased to mention the city of Osijek here, I thank you for that, so the city of Osijek in whose system I have been in before this coming to the Assembly for the last 4 years.../incomprehensible/... for 2014, since 2014, 2017 has been given a row as one of the 10 cities that received a transparency award from the Institute of Public Finance, not because someone there is smart and beautiful and I want to congratulate my colleagues, head of the Public Finance Management Department and public procurement in that mandate whose efforts have really been done, it did not come from themselves, it really someone sat down, taken and put it as a task. Not just that, but other things. How do you come by that? So the five main criteria of the Institute are watching, budgeting, budgeting, budgeting half-yearly, annual, is the proposal adopted before the adoption, of course, is it published, whether all this is publicly published, publicly available, easy and of course informing citizens, a kind of budget in small, how to bring this particular budget closer to the citizens. And now we have an example of the town of Bjelovar di still takes a step further which absolutely needs to be welcomed and, of course, if all the legal requirements around GDPR are met, it is also one big step in the direction of transparency. It's not just that, the audit. How has there been an unconditional opinion on the revision for 2015? Until then, the city of Osijek had no unconditional opinion, there were always certain obstacles, that's the conditional thing that we talked about the other day, so some conditional opinion, some recommendations are given, and more or less all units ignore it. One of the main things that were among these recommendations is the accidental spending of funds, so when something that was spent out of purpose, it was, of course, interrupted, it was not the case, and those earlier dribblings were corrected that this practically money was being returned and returned. In addition, the resolution of property legal relations, particularly with majority-owned companies and the unit, i.e. the specific city of Osijek, including myself, was involved in this work. So, of course, everything can't be solved within one year and not even one term, it's important that you fix everything you can and go into the process every year to correct what wasn't and it's actually establishing a partnership relationship with the State Audit that I've been talking about until the other day, where they need to be a service that helps you improve. Of course, there is also the entry of property into a business book, the collection of claims, but also the write-off of debts, whether citizens or business entities who have been shut down, unfortunately to citizens who have passed away, it should do the same thing where the result may not be a good city but that is something and these are the criteria that have led the city of Osijek to get exactly what you mentioned, unconditional opinion. Therefore, my congratulations, of course, and my colleagues, Krmpotić, and above all, to the mayor and all those who participated with me in those, not only in the previous term, but also in this mandate together with colleagues from the Most and SDP with whom we work very and successfully in the city of Osijek. Regardless of some might say political disagreements at national level, we are extremely good there and I think that's one example of how to love and work for your city. In conclusion, the index is the one that all goes from, so it's important, it doesn't mean that this corruption is present, it's just how people see us or how people see the system of function. And why is that? Because they see that certain things are obviously happening or that they are the participants of it themselves, encourage or see and learn directly, orally, that such things happen. And that's where we have to do the most, we have to always go from ourselves, and I think that, once again, corruption is the cancer of every society because it reduces the chance of any affirmation of an individual, a citizen, and then, specifically, society itself, and it's not something that we've invented, it's present anywhere in the world from time to time to time, only it has to be eradicated as much as possible, brought to the level of excess, at the level of those who literally dared but then those who dared, must be found and found and sanctioned, so no one can think that this brings not only their own integrity but the integrity of the establishment itself, the very state in question, because we, like the state, are actually assessing how some apparatus, the ministry, the unit of local self-government, the establishment, the company, the commercial society itself, is working. Of course, the HNS will accept this report, absolutely would like to hear more talk about this because I think that in this observed period 16 actually plus 4 anonymous, so 16 plays or complaints is too little, we are absolutely aware of it, I see that 15 is responsible and passed on with answers or the inquiry is passed on to the DORH but surely we need to find a model in which much larger this number must be about detection and ultimately we want it to be much smaller because it is not and not because someone is reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132215	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, he asked for the word of Mr Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132216	... exposure. [[Specially enabled.]] What is clear from the discussions of all clubs, colleagues of Greece, Bernardic, Babić, Vlaovic, colleagues of Bunjc, colleagues of Curaj, so we here show the political will to fight corruption and that we are all aware of the problems of corruption. Of course, it's always the first step. After political will, we, as a Parliament, bring a strategy to combat corruption, from this Action Plan. However, the strategy, with political will, is crucial but it is only a framework, the action plan is a tool. And that tool must be taken into our hands, and only then can we say that we have a picture of the fight against corruption. At this point, that picture is bad. It's bad because it shows an index of perception of corruption. So we have a strategy that's a good framework, we have an action plan that's a tool, that tool depends on people people we're all us politicians, state bodies, public bodies that are obliged then to create in this frame a picture that will be the index of perception of corruption. And that's what we have to do together. I answered for the reason that there were several issues concerning the specific National Council, that there would be no ambiguity left, so my colleague Grumoja, there is no pressure on me as president, and it is probably also known that this pressure would only be counterproductive and I hope that here's my colleague Babic here, we do whatever it takes to get any dilemma in the Sabek case resolved to the end. What is pointed out on several occasions, and this is the issue of justice and political corruption, so since it is likely that more time will pass until the next report, I will very briefly learn that, although I have already said this, we have had three more thematic sessions that have dealt with this period, which will cover the second report with the particular problem of justice, the problem of conflict of interest and the problem of political corruption, which are three key topics where we as parliamentary representatives can do something to make the perception of the corruption of Croatian society, especially politics and politicians smaller. Of course, we had a special thematic session dedicated to judicial reform. And the unanimous conclusion of all of us was what my colleague Bunjac was saying today, that we must speed up these processes and that we must get to the rightful verdicts as soon as possible, whether they are judgmental or not, but let this longevity of the process create a fundamental suspicion among the citizens and actually detimise them to fight corruption and raise perceptions about the corruption of Croatian society. Therefore, these three thematic sessions, judicial reform, conflict of interest and political corruption, have drawn several basic conclusions that come first of all. a prevention is ensured by transparency, the prevention of conflicts of interest and a clear way of allowing the media to write without self-censorship, censorship and threats of cancellation. Of course, prevention is crucial, but depression is still very important. Depression, which is then closely linked to the efficiency of the judiciary and the need for an independent, effective judiciary to be that point on and in the fight against corruption, which, of course, starts with prevention. In this sense, we are also presented on the National Council guidelines to prevent corruption among judges, and we also had a report on the fourth evaluation round of GRECO where I repeat, I appeal to the ruling, to bring this ethical code, that this does not constantly resent the absence of an ethical code of parliamentary representatives who might also solve some of the dilemmas that exist on the subject which was next, which is political corruption. So political corruption, we have called it political corruption and it is in the world it is called grand corruption is indeed one of the most dangerous forms of corruption, it is present among senior state officials and politicians who have political power and use it to play the institutions of the legal system. So this form of political grand corruption is considered one of the greatest threats to democracy or the preservation of the rule of law of society, and this very thematic session has also been the subject of our debate with concrete conclusions where we insisted that we prevent political corruption from becoming systemic corruption. What's going on? In systemic corruption, it is actually a special kind of corruption that is so widespread that it affects all sectors of society and leads to conditions when people think that there is no point in fighting corruption. And with us if 4% of citizens say That he wants to fight corruption, shows we're on that path and we have to stop it. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132217	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Curray, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132218	Thank you. Dear colleague Jovanovic, I think we should absolutely absorb what you said about where the main tool is and how we can actually change that perception and that is exactly prevention and information. So people need to know that if they find out anything, they know, if they don't report, they become part of it. We need to enable all the mechanisms and tools of that application that there is no fear, that there is no fear, but if you know something, you see, says you, participate, okay, we can't expect people to report themselves, but in one direct way or indirectly, it's your duty, it's your duty to report it. That's step one. Of course, whenever we speak, transparency, information, our task is to make it impossible for the system not to allow it to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132219	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132220	Thank you very much. So, that's why I insist, colleague Curaj, that this session of ours has an important message to send the public a message that corruption is being reported, and we have a new Law on the Protection of whistles, so I hope that this percentage of the 4% of the population who is willing to report corruption will soon be much greater because it is one of the most devastating data we currently have when we see whether the citizens think that it makes sense in Croatia to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132221	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132222	Thank you very much. Comrade Jovanovic, I support you in what you stressed that it is precisely the task of all of us and in this Assembly to do as transparently as possible and to change the perception of the corruption of all of us in politics. And in the conclusion of this report, we see that there has been a steady shift, but most colleagues today talk about some corruptions and some of the affairs that were before October 2017, after July 2018, which means we are back and potential again these topics although they are not the subject of the report, of course they are not allowed but here, we all appeal to us today to focus on this report and try to change everything in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132223	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132224	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, you heard from the beginning that I said that according to this study which is truly an independent scientific study of values in Croatia, which has been following Croatia since '99. Over 2009, 2018, political parties, 4% and Parliament 8% are at the bottom of the confidence. So I'm like a parliamentary representative who's been sitting in the Assembly for a long time, it's really a shame that this kind of thinking is made by Croatian citizens. Surely that we also contribute to this once-in-a-lifetime debate in this assembly and that we should start to fight for citizens' confidence in politics and faith in politicians, yet it is greater than this research shows us which I strongly recommend that we all read.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132225	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132226	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic, you mentioned the code of ethics, I would only remind him here, there is a vice president of the Parliament that the code of ethics during Mr Petrov's chairmanship was made, that it was put in a drawer and that I do not know for which reason it is not put here before the MPs, means that we are discussing this ethical code, if something is not well done, if it can be improved anyway but I do not see why it is waiting. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132227	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132228	Thank you very much, so here I hope that this debate will be, have one of the results that this topic is moving away from the dead point because it is really unnecessary, otherwise Marin Mrcela is at the head of that GRECO, our very professional judge who enjoys great trust in both Croatia and the world that he himself must be blushing at GRECO's sessions when he insists that Croatia does not respect the recommendations of GRECO in this case about this ethical code that should not really be bauk, and he would probably contribute to this percentage of confidence in the political parties of 4% in the Assembly of 8%.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132229	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132230	My colleague Jovanovic, you know what I am sorry about, when I read this report that you and your colleagues from the committee and the professional services of the assembly, this report offers a series of topics for discussion and this report offers to form a parliamentary multilateral committee that will propose certain conclusions to this assembly, which the authorities in the Republic would have to make. However, we do not act as parliamentary representatives, unfortunately of that basic document that we have, and that is the Rules of Procedure that we should do. We do not want to discuss your report today, not your own report, but the committees, but we are talking about everything and everything, but I repeat if we had the courage and the strength to discuss this report in a way that is written inside and suggest certain conclusions believe me that the debate in the next report would be much better, and we responded to what we are in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132231	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132232	Thank you very much, I can agree with you, my colleague Schucker, the only way to do this without cameras would then be to discuss more content, more content and avoid some parts of the debate that actually go more for day-to-day political purposes than in the long term in the strategic goal of truly a more successful fight against corruption. After all, we will soon have a new action plan that will hopefully be appreciated and everything we have pointed out through the work of the National Council that has not been good in the past, with what needs to be repeated, 81% has been fulfilled compared to 56 in the last period, but that indeed this success in implementing measures has not been accompanied by public perception that the fight against corruption in Croatia is successful. So there's really something we all have to do together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132233	Thank you. Now we're going to have an individual debate, so the first one will speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132234	Thank you, Vice President, most of my debate, so we've had today's debate on the work and the report of the Anti-Corruption Council, most MPs, of course, as it is the custom and I know how to do it, so it goes a little bit wider than itself, from the topic itself. In general, it was said about the problem of corruption in society, regardless of what this anti-corruption council was dealing with, which of course did not deal with all these cases that we had the opportunity to hear from the mouth of parliamentary representatives, which is not necessarily bad. We rarely have an opportunity to speak in such a systematic way about corruption, the fight against corruption and the sending of these messages that are good, which everyone has sent that corruption is something that is unacceptable in society, which we must fight against, of course, this one with us and within the political organisations that we belong to, but also within the whole society or the public. So I was deliberately focusing on one case and because it's a business case, because really this Sabelak case was the subject of this anti-corruption council, and also because it's the case in which perhaps for the first time I discovered an affair in which I can safely determine that it's due to corruption. So, we often talk about it, we are calling out from the opposition ruling, and this one we have some elements or signals of possible corruption, of course we are not any investigative bodies, nor am I a private detective that in certain situations could prove this corruption, but this is one case where it is undoubtedly confirmed by the chief inspector of the Ministry of Anti-Corruption Council that the rules have been broken, that Mrs. Bertosha Kushen was falsely deployed, and we have this other case of Ambassador Josaka Para who hired an outsider in the Embassy in Washington, although, here is now a colleague of Kovac he knows very well, that in the embasssies can be as some external associates to engage people in this kind of occupation which is needed by the cleaning lady and further, but for some consulting jobs that this is not going in the way that Mr Paro did so well, it was committed to make it impossible and without being able to impose on the state to do so much, and to make it impossible to do so. So we had a state audit report in front of us, so all this stuff I was saying wasn't saying because it's kind of my attitude and I want to say at all costs that someone's been corrupt and something bad is happening, but the institutions have either confirmed it on the anti-corruption council or we have a state audit report on what's been going on. And what situation do we have? That the man who is part of this affair, so Mr. Paro is rewarded by Plenkovic's government, is also signed by President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, meaning to go to a very luxuriant and very influential position in Brussels, so he is rewarded, and the man who exposed the corruption means Damir Sabelak is away from the service. And I was now in the Official Court on Tuesday, I came as a party, so the man was away from the service, he complained immediately about that decision. The official court dismissed his appeal and continued the proceedings and now there was a second hearing, and when Mr. Sablak, or his lawyer, asked for public testimony, means Mr. Plenkovic, Vesna Pusic and Minister Pejcinović Buric, are looking for a break, which means this council and say they are asking the ministry to deliver evidence which is why Mr. Sabelak is even away from the service. So they turned down the man's appeal and now the council in the same line with the same president, asking Mr. Sabelak, who already, I don't know, what, 7.8 months. He can't come to his job, so now they're asking the Ministry to deliver evidence, which is why Sabelak was removed from the service. This example means I've been criticized down at the club, says there are so many cases of corruption, in society, much bigger than what you're talking about, and you caught yourself on behalf of the club, one individual case, where it stands, so they're not so enormous, it doesn't affect every citizen of this country. Why did I take that case? Because he is a symbol, in which way Croatia is the best possible image in which Croatia fights corruption. People who report corruption are punished, those who participate in corruption are rewarded, except here we have a case, that Plenkovic's government has replaced the secretary-general, after all these calls, after that testimony on the anti-corruption council, but without any consequences. So she'll probably be rewarded by some kind of position, too, and they're hoping this will all cover up. But what I've sent as a message means I'm going to continue to insist on this case and I think we have to send a message, not only to fight corruption, but also to send a message that every man who talks to us as parliamentary agents, as an anti-corruption council, that we're going to stand by these people to the end. Because they risk their jobs, risk their reputation in society, it happens to them that more with them, almost no one wants to be in any kind of contact, and we're the ones who have to send a message, we're here because of you. When you talk to us, we'll insist on lighting, we won't give up, we'll push that case. I can't investigate, here's my colleague Bulj, he's gone, he's done one great thing, so he's filed a criminal report, and it's very high-quality lawyers prepared it for him, so against HANFA and HNB because of these bonds without cover. DORH didn't respond within six months. I think it's been two years, he hasn't been answered. But yesterday, I hear the DORH is now conducting an investigation, among the suppliers about their responsibility. Such cases should be dealt with, but I, as a parliamentary representative, have no capacity, to explore everything that happened around Agrokor, I was a member of the parliamentary investigation committee, I tried as hard as I could, I think I did in this short time, a solid job, even got a confession from former Governor Rohatinski that Todorovic, Kramarko, Kujundzic and Zdravko Maric had persuaded him to have political engagement. But I can't imagine myself being able to explore everything that's happened around Agrokor, but cases like this, where citizens are talking to us with concrete documentation, which I also asked the President of the Parliament to deliver to you, these are cases where we can show, that we want to fight corruption, that we want to shed light on every negativity in Croatian society, regardless of the political option. Independently. So if there is someone in the Bridge who is corrupt, someone who violates the laws, they should immediately respond to the institutions of the Croatian state. I don't know anything about it. I don't know anything about different approaches and relationships, if it's someone from the Bridge or someone from the HDZ, the SDP, the Living Wall. It just means that if we don't deal with corruption, if every case of possible corruption, or injustice to Croatian citizens, as Mr. Sablak has experienced, if we don't shed light on it, then people will be leaving our country. Here while I was talking to people earlier, I was sent by some Parliament employees here about their problems with the corruption of the message, so here, in this highest legislative body, so people meet with corruption, they meet with neptism, they meet with clientism. And that's what's inadmissible, corruption is everywhere, so there's corruption everywhere, no one is, so no organization, no man is immune to corruption. But the messages we have to send, they have to be just like this, so we have to send a message to all those people who are talking to us, that we're going to be lighting these cases to the end, and I think that's the only way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132235	We have three replicas, the first respected representative of the Downworlder, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132236	Mr Vice-President, let me remind you that the Anti-Corruption Body of the Council of Europe, GRECO recently warned in its report that the Republic of Croatia had failed to implement recommendations to which it had committed, inter alia, to preventing corruption, possible corruption among MPs and did not adopt an ethical code for MPs. The fact is that this ethical code was proposed at the time, while the Bridge had the President of the Croatian Parliament, that Mr Petrov, then at the head of the Croatian Parliament and formed and the Presidency had formed a working group, that she had made this ethical code, that even the draft that was prepared for the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, where I was then president and had never been adopted and that recommendation was not respected until today. Why don't we start with ourselves first and reduce potentially every possible cause of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132237	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132238	Col. Podolnjak, you were out of the assembly for a moment, that's what my colleague Jovanovic was talking about, here on behalf of this committee, or, the Anti-Corruption Council, and he was talking about the fact that we still don't have this ethical code, and I've just replicated and warned about that fact, that the ethical code is done, that this presidency, or this President of the Parliament doesn't want to put it here, in front of the parliamentary representatives who are the reasons, which I can't know, we can only call on, we can't call as a bridge to do that, even though it wouldn't be correct for us to point it out as a bridge because it wasn't just MOST involved in the making of this document, the other political parties participated, all we can, we can call on the President of Parliament to put it into discussion and here we do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132239	The Honorable representative of Sladolev has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoja, you've been telling all along and we've had this story all along that we need to strengthen the institutions, so citizens have very little trust in institutions and the DORH itself. I'll just remind you of one fact why citizens have a low confidence in institutions, so I'm 3.4 months old. Before the defendant, the suspect Zdravko Mamic fled to another country, he asked the DORH exactly a representative question, whether there are precautions for Mr. Zdravko Mamić and I did not get an answer. So I, as a parliamentary representative, felt logical that he could escape since he had dual citizenship, therefore to his character and I never got an answer. If I'm an individual, as a citizen noticed it, how come the DORH didn't notice it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132241	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132242	Mr. Ice cream, so I've pointed out a few examples. Mr. Sablek raises his criminal record, no one calls him to testify and he offers the State's Attorney's office to testify with his knowledge and that the matter is worse for him, after I've asked Prime Minister Plenkovic a question, the same day a criminal report has been dismissed, he does not provide him with insight into the solution to reject criminal charges and, worst of all, he does not deliver it to the National Anti-Corruption Council after we have asked for it. Col. Bulj raises criminal charges, a parliamentary representative against HANFA and the CNB, in each country it would be an incredible blow to those institutions. Two years in six months. They need to answer him, they didn't even answer him, he doesn't even know if there's been a rejection, what's going on, now we hear they're investigating but on suppliers. Here's this case of Zdravko Mamić, it's clear what kind of state this is, but we will continue to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132243	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132244	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke of various forms of corruption in Croatian society and categorically and responsibly, I say that one of the biggest corrupt actions 10 years ago happened in the Croatian highways, one such corrupt operation weighing 8 million kunas 2 years ago, I reported to the DORH with an absolute record of how 8 million kunas are extracted from state-owned companies. The town of Vrgorac has highlighted a solution to the municipal contribution to the Croatian highways worth 8 million kuna, freed them from paying the municipal contribution in value to perform the works. Never public procurement for 8 million kuna was made for these works, however, these works were never even carried out by any individual because they were not included in the material accounting of the city of Vrgorca 2 years ago, I reported everything, some of the costs were made afterwards after the agreement, all written, all black on white, it was 8 million kunas, shares Zagvozd-Ravča, and before that we have a Sixantovac-Zagvozd and no one reacts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132245	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132246	I can only say this, I hope the attorney general is listening to this debate. The mayor of one city, the council representative, is raising a specific criminal report two years ago, so it's a detour about the construction of the highway, you're not even responsible to this day, right? So what will Croatian citizens expect? What will Croatian citizens expect when we who are elected by the citizens to represent them mean when they do not respond to us? So they have nothing to expect and that's the fight against corruption. Until that changes, we won't go forward. There is no political will in Croatia at the highest levels to deal with corruption. If she existed, we'd be counting a long time ago. Well, we've been racing with HDZ for six months. about a member of the DSV. When we got it, the coalition broke and we see what the DSV is doing now, what judgments are being made against the media and what is being done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132247	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I will look back at this report in terms of its most important findings, which is that Croatia is again placed at the top of the countries by the perception of corruption precisely because of the large corruption risks in public procurement especially at local level where control systems are much smaller than in some state level and because of the lack of ownership relations in shares over the media. And what concerns us is the finding of this council that the interest in fighting corruption is in decline, that's what our citizens think, and why is that? So, I can't agree with my HDZ colleagues saying that today we should discuss only this report and that we shouldn't look back on some of the things that have happened in the past, which are still happening and I'm going to say why, and that's precisely because these conclusions of this council are also connected, which I've just said. So when the perception of corruption in a country grows, it is shown, when citizens' perception of corruption is growing, never when corruption happens but always when corruption is revealed. So the perception of corruption in Croatia had rises, declines, it grew, but let's say that a sharp jump took place just in 2010 and then the perception in Croatia went much worse compared to the previous period. For what? Because that's when the arrests started, investigations started and actions started in the Fimi media cases, in the cases of former President Sanader who was then detained, where top state officials were closed because of a corruption network designed by Croatian society, where through the firm Fimi media they pulled money from public administration and de facto financed their party's work and financed their party work. That is why the HDZ on the accused bench for corruption as a party, the only and first party in Croatia in the history of Croatian society found in court for corruption. And then what happened? It happened that nine years after that, why we have to talk about it today, nine years today, we still don't have a single verdict in those cases, neither liberating nor judgmental. So this is why today the perception of corruption in Croatia is growing again, which is why we are again at the top of European countries. Because when we look at what Croatia is doing in relation to neighbouring countries, for example in relation to BiH, Serbia, it will not compare with advanced countries. So, let's say in Serbia today, they're just bringing in some institutes that we already have for decades, which is a normal thing for us, so they still don't have a national council to implement the fight against corruption, and they don't have property cards, they don't have a conflict of interest commission, so we have it for years. And if this were to compare what Croatia has, we have a BOOK that they do not have, we have some bodies of a repressive apparatus that conducts investigations and that should then bring corrupt people to justice, what happens then? Bodies, institutions do their jobs and then come where, to the biggest problem of Croatian society, which is the judiciary, everything falls to the judiciary. So USKOK did his job, the prosecution did its job, everything came to the courts, and there's nothing going on in the judiciary. 9 years after the biggest affairs in the Croatian HDZ society, we have no single verdict. And normally, today, there is a perception that we have to talk today about the events that took place 10 years ago because if these processes had ended, if we had any convictions, any judgments, any kind of one, I will not now enter what they should be and that Croatia is at the bottom at the perception of European countries' corruption, then we could be discussing this report today, only the report and not coming out of the framework and periods and terms of this report. But today we have situations as I have already said that after 9 there is no verdict in the Sanader case, we 10, 15 days already in a row of testimony, witnesses in the case who say that money was being drawn in the HDZ bags, how national interests were being sold, how INA was being sold and what was happening there. And that's what people watch every day. Well, of course there's a growing perception of corruption. We have, here, a memorial in the case of Zdravko Mamić, a man who escaped from Croatia, the most wanted Croatian fugitive. We have a verdict, some day syncope, and not syncope, so here's the verdict on Mr. Horvatincic. The same goes the day before that outside of Croatia, I hope it will return but these are all situations that destroy citizens' confidence in the institutions of this country and therefore the fall of perception that we want to change something at all and that we are doing something at all. There's talk here about the responsibility of politicians. Well, of course, we have the greatest responsibility, and here we have the frigid example of one of our colleagues, whose media discovered a watch on a 60 thousand kuna that didn't check into the property card, and then ask him that question, and then he says, yes, here's a thank you to the media who warned me about the failure, that's what my family bought me, I've corrected my failure, and now I've reported it, and here's a thank you very much for the warning. He mocks people, mocks all of us. Well, no one's illiterate enough to know what they have to report in the property card. And yet when we watch from which miles this gentleman, the Croatian Football Federation, comes back again, Zdravko Mamić, expensive watches, judges friends, how do people look at it? Every once in a while, one of these most wanted fugitives drinks coffee with some of our controversial judges who are in jumper courts, etc. And then they say and look, that's my friend, so I'm not giving him up. Look, I don't have a friend of the judges, I don't drink on Saturday mornings at the Flower Coffee with judges of jumpers or with judges of any court who judge me. If we know that in Croatia, in Zagreb more than 50% of pass-by judges are external associates of the Croatian Football Federation and receive fees annually from the Croatian Football Federation, I ask how they will judge the corruption cases in that organization. So they will not judge favorably. But again, we're going back to what's the biggest issue of justice and inaction that's happening. So we conduct investigations, we carry out some activities, we spend and we get some inadmissible verdicts, and then due to technical failures, everything goes down, we start over. And then the ones for which it was annulled, here's a teammate from HDZ yelling, so we're not convicted. You are not freed, but you have been retriald for technical procedural errors. Nobody said you weren't doing what you were doing. Not to say again that there is a later question that you also won the 2007 elections, yes, in 2007, parliamentary with money stolen from Croatian public companies. That's what your campaign's funded. If you hadn't had that money, the question is, would you have won that election? So that's all the questions but no one's asking that as some sort of topic anymore. That's why we're talking about this today because the judiciary isn't working and the judiciary is back on track with who. And we as much as have some situation to do some effect and the consequences are gone. Here we are looking at the trial of Mr. Kalmeta who is doing the same, there are amplitudes, if it is in the mercy of HDZ leadership, then the odds are that they will be more condemned, if in the mercy of HDZ leadership, then the odds of condemnation are higher, if in grace it gets some function in the party, then these odds of judgment are falling, but every day we watch testimony, our citizens watch what's been going on in Croatia for the last 10, 15 years and normal for perception to grow. So we have to start to act, we have to start changing burning problems in Croatian society, and that's the judiciary, and I'm going to say once again, and we have to change these habits of our judges that they have to become as politicians, as we do a little more transparent, show our property cards, and watch out for who has friends, as we politicians have to look out for these things and start implementing the laws, and then maybe the perception of corruption is going down, and then maybe after that, when Croatia is at the bottom of the countries after the perception of the presence of corruption, then maybe we can discuss only the reports year by year, month by month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132249	We have two replicas. First of all, he's a respected member of the Scyboli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132250	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Djujic, I agree with everything you said in this debate, I believe that the Croatian judiciary is indeed one of the biggest problems why this country cannot go forward and the question is how is it that in the Croatian judiciary so long these proceedings and regardless of the calls, even judges, who publicly say there is great corruption in the Croatian judiciary, means you have judges, who publicly say that there is corruption, huge in the judiciary, means if it is not an alarm, then I don't know what should be an alarm to this high home, that we should move forward and make more radical judicial reform because without judicial reform, but not the superficial peripheral, but concrete and essential ones, this country cannot go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132251	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132252	So here's my colleague, I agree with you, so we need a fundamental reform of the judiciary in Croatia that will lead to results and when it comes to this reform, I think, preferably in consensus, because if one political option starts to change it, then another usually sues her that it's a politicisation of the judiciary, then they run to you all in Brussels and sue you there as here they want to politicise the judiciary, and the judiciary is politicized 10-15 years ago, the HDZ laid the foundations of the functioning of the judiciary in this country where judges de facto choose themselves and do not respond to anyone. And now you can't change that anymore, and until that changes, there will be no progress. Because you can't reform the judiciary will be to shut down one court or two courts will connect here or part of the case will move here or there, the only effects of these reforms are that our citizens must instead, I don't know, go 50 km to court. And that's the problem, and we need to look at the results of the judge's effectiveness, how successfully they solve cases, and not to have someone stand for five years something in the drawer and there's no consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132253	The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132254	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Djujic, well, you seem to have even mentioned to me on several occasions the statement by Minister Kujundzic that in health care is actually a public secret, that there are, that corruption and bribes have spread. So are you perhaps, do you have any information about this specifically, what Minister Kujunzdic specifically meant and whether he did something about it? Did he report any particulars he knew about and what he meant by that? And what does he think he's doing? Do you have information, perhaps, here's what I'm asking you because I think you've been asking that question. Do you have any information he intends to take?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132255	Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132256	Thank you very much, colleague. Right, I have asked three representatives of the issue, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Bozinovic and Minister Kujundzic himself, who have just been linked to the statement by Minister Kujundzic in the media he gave as a finding, it is generally known that corruption is an integral part of all segments in society, as well as in healthcare. And he said it as a normal thing. And that's the problem that one part of our citizens is corruption is a normal thing. Now, I have just asked Prime Minister Plenkovic if he agrees with Minister Kujundzic in his allegations that corruption is all present in Croatian society, Minister Bozinovic, if Mr Kujundzic has reported to him some of his findings, when he said so, he certainly knows that Minister Kujundzic has reported it. I got you one answer bureaucratically written, so the government is taking a consistent strategy to fight corruption, the Ministry of Health reports it, the Ministry of Health does it when something is reported, I repeated those questions, and here I am now waiting for concrete answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132257	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132258	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to look at a particular problem, which is corruption at local level, so in my debate on behalf of the club, I was talking about corruption at the highest level, so in the government and the Parliament. However, it is also very important to mention corruption at local level where we have very serious studies, both domestic and international, which show an interesting problem, and this is that local government can win by 25% of the votes. So it's enough to have a quarter of the voters who go to the polls and you have absolute power. And then what's very interesting, it turns out that you literally can buy that quarter of the vote. So she's buying. That's possible. It is bought in ways that individual local politicians in public procurement allow certain entrepreneurs to get jobs, and then these entrepreneurs return the service so that they are urging people to vote for that particular politician. First of all, of course, their employees, but usually they are also local entrepreneurs associated with different associations of citizens, let's say sports clubs, with, I don't know, fire companies, hunting societies, fishing societies, defensive, Bleiburg platoons, which I know what they're called, and then because of interest, there's a certain electoral body. And that electoral body, which is very interesting, is disciplined to go to the polls unlike those of dissatisfied citizens, who rebel against such authorities, but stay at home and do not vote because they think that nothing can change anyway or have plans simply to move out or even leave the country and that's a big problem. The corruption at local level is increasing as long as the mandate of a single politician starts, he may, at the beginning of the first term, be still in order, but when the second term starts, he is already starting to fear, so he starts to fight for the second term, and when his fifth, sixth term, he already has networks of his people, and practically no longer you can remove him, so he will be the mayor, practically until his death, he will have 6, 7, 8 mandates and he can't, he can't take anything anymore. To solve this problem, and this is a very, very serious problem which also results in the loss of billions of kuna, it is enough to look at the City of Zagreb, which is literally the wild west as regards public money, as shown by these two reports of the Office of State Audit that we have been listening to in recent days, that, therefore, the budget money in Zagreb is disastrously, in fact, available illegally. It would be necessary, one, to amend the electoral law in a way or to remove that Hont or to lower the electoral threshold, and most importantly, to limit the number of mandates to two, to limit the number of mandates to two, so that these commissioners are not in a panic, in the care of whether they get a mandate or not, but simply to know that they are now and never again and that they have nothing to do with anyone at all. It would also be very important if it is possible to introduce in some way incentives for voting, even the obligation to vote. You have, say, in Greece who goes to the election gets a free driver's license, it's connected to each other. You have an obligation to vote in Flandria, you have in Australia, so simply take these people who are apathic to the elections to get more representation or to get participation of all citizens in deciding who will represent power. These are all solutions that would, therefore, significantly reduce corruption. It would also be necessary to facilitate the referendums, and we see that this government is doing absolutely everything to make referendums more difficult, right at local level, even more than at national level, because at national level, 10% of signatures should be collected, and at the local 20% of signatures for the referendum, that citizens can make some decisions that are very important to them, such as waste management, concessions and I don't know, other questions exactly where it revolves, where the biggest money revolves. It should also prevent the practice that individual parties are prone to, in particular HDZ, which is to offer bribes to voters openly, now recently, here in Lica, I have personally seen with my own eyes, beer, brandy was given to voters on stands. Do you in your statute have the right to share alcoholic beverages, is that legal? Can the political party share free alcoholic beverages? Here, tell me, is that the statute? Here, we have Mr. Shucker, he probably knows the status, so let me know. Let's not talk about poor people, getting picked up in buses and being divided by 100.00, 200,00 kn to vote for HDZ, whether it's Metkovic, is it Knin and suddenly in the polling place, I don't know, you don't have anything for half an hour, all of a sudden an ant, here's 200 people, the HDZ unloaded from the cyper and what's called, people all vote the same, just asking who you're voting for, so you know what they said and all the same. That's the kind of disaster that's corrupt in the Republic of Croatia that's supposed to end. There's of course, I'm not saying, there's also the responsibility of voters huge, everyone should be on their own, you should say wait a minute, so what am I going to sell my country for 100,00 kn now or don't know about 3 beers, but again the greatest responsibility of those who offer that corruption. So we're going back to what's important, where can corruption be solved? Here, right here, 151 of us can resolve the issue of corruption in the Republic of Croatia. If we do it, we don't solve it, we just complain or we don't come to a session at all, why would we listen to it? This is the problem, so it is being solved in HS, and it is also clear that it will not be resolved here for so long until a new government is elected, and therefore I invite all Croatian citizens, all voters, to the 26th of May and at the end of the year to the presidential elections and next year to parliamentary elections, come out, this is the possibility, mass exit, everyone, take your family, your friends, no more vote for those parties that have destroyed the Republic of Croatia, and most of all just corruption. You're all organizing, I don't know and writing me some referendums, protests, petitions, that's all right, but the biggest referendum is on election day, it's a real referendum, it's the biggest rhombus that exists, every ballot gets. That day you voters can change this society, do it, don't say it today is sunny, which I care, yesterday I was at a Joleta concert, I got a beer and now I can vote for HDZ. Wake up, wake up. The situation in this society can only change those people who have never been in power. Of course, responsibility is in power, but there's another side of responsibility, and that's a responsibility on all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132259	Thank you. We have a replica of Đujic's respected representative, first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132260	Thank you very much. You were talking about corruption at local level, and I agree with you, so I think it's very high corruption at local level, but some law, which let's say, some local officials leave it under the radar, so to speak. For example, under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, you have a whole series of local officials, which are not at all covered by this law and practically if they are in any apparent conflict of interest, can neither be decided nor debated at all. For example. Presidents of city and municipal councils, directors of municipal enterprises, some municipal enterprises in some cities, have a budget greater than 5-6 cities and municipalities combined. So there's space and nobody's answering, nobody's asking questions for them, they don't even know it exists. There was also the Law on State Audit, which had previously been followed by old provisions, every year carried out surveillance in cities and every two in municipalities, and now I am proportionally assessing when it would work, so the whole mandate could happen, that some municipality would not be audited at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132261	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132262	Thank you very much, MP Djujic, so there's a lot at the local level to go under the radar. Let's say we have a cut, a recent study of respected economists has been published, that the cut is equal to corruption. So the cut is introduced exclusively where the public money is accidentally spent and then missing and then the local tax increases. The bigger the cut, the greater corruption, it's scientific work, it's no journalist's claim, nor Branimir Bunjca's claim, it's evidence. And now you're wondering where the biggest cut is? What city has the biggest cut in Croatia? The city of Zagreb. What can we conclude from that? You know it. Let's say we ban the cut. We break that law, so cover ourselves with what money you have, so much pay, so much for public work, and everything else you need, and the citizens would have a lot of savings on their personal accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132263	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132264	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, you were talking about a real problem that we are facing in the fight against corruption, which is public procurement in cities. So it's really interesting how it is for citizens in certain environments to tolerate, to say the mildness of their mayors, to have an example of the mayor, who is even a university professor, who wrote a textbook in ethics, and then abused the position and authority and ended up in prison, and then the citizens re-elected him as mayor. So what you're saying is, there's a whole series of scientific papers and one of these papers is written by Vuk Vukovic, who calls such a coalition, a winning coalition of interests, where, especially in smaller areas, a number can be calculated, how much it takes to corrupt the people of the family to win these elections. So, what do you think we can do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132265	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132266	Thank you very much, MP Jovanovic, so I repeat once again, the question arises with how many votes the mayor has received. How many votes? How many HDZ votes in Croatia? According to Minister Kuštevic, Croatia has 3 million 704 thousand voters. HDZ won 600 thousand in the election, 600 thousand in the election. So those with less than 20% votes have absolute power. There is a huge problem with the electoral law. So who voted for this mayor? They voted, who had previously participated with him in such a governance model and who knew that they would now be able to continue again and that no one would, or at least no one would, persecute them because of what they were doing. And that's very bad, people should win the vote with 51% voter will, not 15 or 20 maximum 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132267	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132268	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, here I think this entire House, we can all agree in the debate so far, that corruption, indeed, is one of the fundamental problems of Croatian societies and the system that we are meeting. People thought that when we enter the EU, that then corruption, in itself, will disappear, that European institutions will solve corruption in Croatian society, but 6 years after we have entered the EU, we see that no matters in this matter have changed, and until the Croatian citizens are aware that we will not have European institutions, solve the problems of corruption in the Croatian state, until then, we will have the situation that only 25% of voters go to elections and where they are actually giving legitimacy to those political parties who are interested in functioning in terms of this interesting relationship they have made for years, because for 20 years the same parties in power are exchanged, they have a structure, an interest structure and it is very difficult for some other people to work out with the crime and corruption that exists in Croatia. It should be said that in Croatia I pulled out some statistics, 44% of bribes are paid in money, while 38% are given in food and drink. Much lower on the scale there are valuable shifts, which is about 7%, other goods 6%, anti-service 5% For a large part of bribery cases it can be said that they represent a form of exchange, either more explicit or more implicit between the two sides, where both sides give something and get something in return. There are significant differences in the type of bribe between Croatian regions. The higher percentage of people in Lica, Kordun and Banovina, 62%, Dalmatia 55% and Istria, Primorje and Gorski Kotar 54%, e.g. use money for bribery. Food is mostly used by subjects in the agricultural areas of northern Croatia, 51% and Slavonia 48%. At national level, the provision of food gifts in bribery is prone to female subjects. According to some statistics 41%, compared to men 38%. Male subjects give 49% more bribery in money than the female population of 35%. According to the experiences of citizens who say that at least once in the last 12 months they have given bribes to a public official, bribes are given to doctors, believe it or not, doctors are given bribes, 56% of citizens with recent corruption experience, bribes are given to a doctor and there is a question of these problems of our own health system that works in a way, a very slow way as the judiciary and such a slow and trom way opens up a space for fat corruption. You have cases where doctors who work in hospitals have their own private polyclinics and then through the public sector, through public hospitals where they work, invite patients to their private clinics where they charge services, in a way that tells them that it will be very difficult to get in line in that public health system, and better that he in a private clinic solves that problem, we won't charge him much. It's an eclectic example of conflict of interest, but no one is interested in it, and I see that no one is involved in it, and it's just, as it would say, cultoares, but we know that it's a real state and many have faced such experiences. As many have already said here, the biggest problem and brakes of development is corruption in the judiciary. Until corruption is resolved in the judiciary, we simply cannot expect that corruption in some other segments of society will be resolved, because the judiciary is exactly the kind of institution, the instruments through which corruption should be contained, and if corruption is most corrupt in the Croatian judiciary, then we can expect that in other segments of Croatian society such as politics, such as, I don't know, economics or some other segments, corruption will be resolved. Here, I'd like to give an example of an affair that is shaking currently in Montenegro, I don't know how much you're informed about this affair in Montenegro. It's actually an eclant public example of how the system actually works behind the scenes. Montenegro's central bank forced itself into the Atlas bank of Duško Knezevic, while its second bank operating in Montenegro's Invest Bank Montenegro was shoved into bankruptcy. In parallel, the Montenegrin Special Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and Corruption suspected Knezevic of being the head of a criminal group that had laundered money through his banks and close to 30 companies. A national warrant has been issued for them and has been assigned to custody. Then what's going on? It happens that Duško Knezevic, a long-standing Montenegrin tycoon and influential banker, starts dating you with all the dirt he was involved with Montenegrin authorities. He fled to London, every similarity with our tycoons was random, and from there he published publicly compromising videos and evidence, so the first video he played in public was giving to the mayor of Podgorica $100,000 for a campaign in his apartment. Afterwards, Knezevic, through Montenegrin media, placed an audio recording of Montenegro's Central Bank's deputy governor asking him for money to make his Atlas bank audit a positive one. There is much more to this affair, this affair is currently getting ugly, there are big protests in Montenegro precisely because of this affair, but we should, too, citizens should learn something from this affair, and that is that things don't work very differently in Croatia. We just didn't have such public testimony as Duško Knezevic is doing now in Montenegro, but in Croatia you also had many so-called "Knežević". and tycoon, banking, political affairs where the main leading people and institutions are corrupt. You've had this affair with RBA cooperatives, you've had various other affairs, and it seems in fact that these institutions let it go further. Now, whoever received the money here, whether or not someone received the money, the institutions should deal with it, however, we see that DORH, USKOK, when citizens report to DORH or USKOK, they often, behold, some parliamentary representatives have testified that they have filed for DORH and USKOK and have not received an answer. So they said well, in fact, if the MP doesn't respond from the DORH, then how can an ordinary citizen expect something more concrete to be done? In my opinion, corruption is set in the very foundations of democracy, you have fictitious residences, so during the election, a team appears, comes from other countries, votes for certain parties, so, this fictional residence has not been resolved yet, former Minister Vlaho Orepic has tried something, but it has now stopped again, and then questions are raised if we have a corrupt electoral system and if there is no effort in this segment to establish order, then how can we possibly expect this system to go for the better and that there will actually be some concrete changes with HDZ in power, at least with such HDZ as it is, but it has not actually changed in the 20th year. Not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132269	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132270	Thank you very much. My friend Schibol, you mentioned the problem of health corruption. So every corruption is dangerous, and health corruption is particularly worrying because it is often about human lives. What I also want to point out as a doctor, as well as as the President of the Council for Corruption, because we had this topic and at the meeting of our council that in health, the perception of corruption is rarely expressed. However, when you ask if you were able to give money, that percentage is much smaller. So, according to some survey, 95% of citizens said they were never asked to give money for a health care service. However, this 5% is also very worrying because we have recently received data from the European Consumer Index, which places the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at 11th place from 28 countries, Albania is the first to be corrupt, and Switzerland is the least when it comes to healthcare. The key is transparent lists, transparency is to prevent corruption in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132271	The answer of the esteemed member of the Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132272	Thank you, Agent Jovanovic, I agree with you and I would like to, behold, to praise the functioning of your Anti-Corruption Committee, the National Council of Corruption, and I have been present at a session where there has been a discussion of the judiciary, on the suppression of corruption in the judiciary, I think that representatives should more, should be more activated in that Committee, show greater interest, come to your meetings and certainly on the matter of health, I think that we should organise such thematic sessions even more, invite the relevant people from the institutions, should certainly repeat what was in the judiciary, where were the Supreme Judges, the Presidents of Mr Jelinic's county courts from DORH, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132273	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, we will now return to the point on which we left for a moment, and this is the report on the work of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy for the period from 27 October 2017 to 15 July 2018. So the next individual debate will be the respected advocates of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132275	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, so here's a lot that's been said with various aspects since the beginning of today's debate, and it's touched a lot. What I would also like to stress in my debate is the fact that Croatia is actually perceived as a country where corruption is not only present, but also corruption, that corruption is growing. This is what can not be done for all of us, nor can it be for us, nor can it be for us to boast. There are also some reasons or what is thought to be the reason, but I would like to mention that when it comes to perception, it is not enough just to say that perception is a problem because if perception were really just a problem, then I would really be less concerned. Perception in this case would mean that someone sees us or ourselves as a country where corruption is a model of behavior, corruption is the way we get jobs, the way someone gets jobs, corruption is the way we treat everything that's public and everything we spend our money on. But it seems to me that it's not just a matter of perception, that it's not just an idea of how something should be, but unfortunately it's about that actually corruption is increasingly present, that corruption isn't something that was, so it's slowly disappearing. That's why we really have to worry, so it's kind of wrong for me not to talk about it anymore, that we're actually acting in a way that will help the Republic of Croatia become the country that we should be talking to, the kind that should be compared to, therefore, a country that condemns corruption, which does not live corruption at the end. If perception was just an impression of the public, then we could communicate it easier, then it wouldn't be a problem, then we would say no, we're doing really transparently, we're acting well, but maybe it's not well presented in public. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and it is most visible from the fact that many of the corrupt actions that have been and have been discovered are not actually sanctioned, as they are not sanctioned, they are only growing and they are being upgraded by new corrupt actions precisely for this reason because the previous ones have not been sanctioned. It is also said why this is happening, and obviously the problem in some of the authorities of the country that are most responsible, and this is probably about justice that does not solve problems on time. If it solves problems on time, probably a message that is then sent that corruption is not good, that corruption will be sanctioned, then there would probably be less of such phenomena. What we need to take care of is that we need to start from the top, there will be no change if the change occurs where it should begin, and that is here, and that is with those who are the legislative, legislative body and those who are the executive body. So I would warn here of another fact, which is transparency. I would like first of all to really compare ourselves with those who are weaker than us, who are less transparent, who are more corrupt, but to compare ourselves with all those who are more transparent in work, who are less corrupt, who are better at fighting corruption, and that should really be our goal, that should be our model of behavior. Speaking of transparency, I will also mention one of the objectives that are precisely in this strategy and what this report is talking about, and one of the goals is to certainly increase the transparency of the work of public authorities, and to make significant efforts to restore citizens' confidence in their work. I will mention here a small part that relates to the transparency of the government, to the transparency of holding a session, that is, I will say, a small part and I would like to pay attention to that part that before, before Plenkovic's government came to the head was different, it was more transparent. It is about the announcement of a cabinet session that since Plenkovic led has become completely untransparent and I will say why and I will call again this way once again and Mr Plenkovic and the Government to change it. I also asked that question as a parliamentary question, and unfortunately I did not get any concrete answer, and even less the promise that things would change. It is specifically that this government does not announce the session in the way it was and was far more transparent, announces the agenda, however, without the material available, the accompanying material, which actually reduces the transparency of the work of the session itself because in time neither the citizens know what will be talked about and the media even less. The problem is, many non-government associations warned, journalists warned, media warned, but here it has not changed so far. So I call once again on the government to do so because at the time of the previous government, the government of Zoran Milanovic was different. It was transparent and the materials were published in time and in this segment we achieved and one truly, one more quality, more democratic way of publishing the government's sessions. That's why I'm talking, what am I talking about? Because that's what I'm talking about as a selective definition of transparency. I'm in this, I'm not in this, I'm supposed to be transparent here, I'm not supposed to be here. And what I want to talk about at the end, say, note, which is education. It is often mentioned here in the strategy itself, as well as in the report on education, especially the education of young people. Which means education of young people in a way where society is like this, when corruption and perception but corruption itself is widespread, present. Which means how, how can leaders talk about reducing corruption if they don't carry out what is needed to reduce it themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132276	Thank you, thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132277	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Alfirev, you're actually referring to certain institutions, this, Transparency International, and you're saying that we're actually standing by that perception and corruption index. Well, I'll tell you, I'm not inclined to believe these institutions until the end. For what? So here's Denmark for you is 88 points, so 0 is the worst country, up to 100 points for the best country, in transparency. Denmark has 88 points, and Denmark had one of the biggest corruption scandals in Europe in 2018. So over a little one,... Businesses pulled out 8.3 billion U.S. dollars through companies from the Soviet Union and with other businesses about 234 billion dollars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the perception index is their number of points is 88. So I don't really trust these institutions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132278	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132279	So the measure, the measure and the attitude towards the bad things that are happening to us must be, so our guideline must be, above all, the reporting of corrupt actions but also sanctioning and that is what is most important and the perception of the public itself can be the result of all this. It may be the result that in that country and we know that corruption, somewhere it has been said, is not a country where corruption is not present. But that doesn't have to be an excuse, we don't need it to be something to say we're not going to do anything about it, but the measure has to be as much reported and as sanctioned as certain poor corruption actions. That's what's important. How they got to the public and what was done about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132280	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you've completely incorrectly said, I believe you don't need to know that because it's not your narrow specialty or narrow area of interest, speaking about the openness of the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia above all about what concerns the cabinet's session. So you are wrong, doing an analysis of all EU countries, openness and work, the government of the Republic of Croatia is one of the most open governments. So I'm going to give you for example, for example, in Germany, government sessions aren't open to the public at all, there's no video transmissions, there's no live stream, there's no press attending sessions. Likewise in Slovenia, Austria, Belgium, I do not now give you examples, if you are interested, I can show you exactly all the results that are quantifiable to all criteria and the Government acts in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in time everything that is necessary is made public in a transparent manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132282	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132283	Thank you. Comrade Glavak, you are wrong for the simple reason why four years ago we had a completely different situation that all the meetings of the government were announced in a way that was also published but all the materials were published so that all the citizens and the media could see exactly what was going to be said at these sessions. The government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has abolished it. It was, therefore, almost immediately at the beginning of the takeover and on numerous remarks, meaning all media, citizens, no government organisations were simply said, in fact no concrete justification either but it was bad practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132284	Thank you, thank you very much. I would still ask all my colleagues and colleagues to stick to the subject. Now we're gone, I'm very tolerated, and there's talk about everything and everything, but there's really no point in talking about things that really have nothing to do with curbing corruption and from 27 October to 15 July. ... Transparency and corruption are two concepts. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we have the next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132285	Thank you very much. My colleague, Alfirev, you touched each other in the end, so maybe you didn't have time to finish the thought, so here I come in, and since that's extremely important, you were talking about education. Recently, we have had the opportunity to read a study on the views of young people in the Republic of Croatia who are quite worrying and devastating, which only testifies to the importance of education and education for the creation of citizens who will be active citizens of a society, a society where they see themselves and as citizens of a community at a local, national and European level. Therefore, the more urgent introduction of civil education and education for civil society and democracy created by active citizens who will be mastered in their creation by both knowledge and skills and competences is certainly the fight against corruption that should be in these education plans from kindergarten age, through primary, secondary school to college.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132286	Thank you. There were no questions, but something will say to the esteemed Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132287	I couldn't agree more, my colleague Jovanovic. So, civil education, first of all, I, in this situation, especially when the fight against the harmful things that are happening in our society, really trust in the mind and critical thinking of new generations, and this will indeed be achieved by introducing, that is to say, the best way to achieve civil education where critical thinking is the basis, the foundation of new thinking and the actions of new generations themselves. What worries me is that this is the current situation because, as I don't believe when a parent or a doctor with a cigarette, say in his mouth, he's talking about the harmfulness of smoking to young generations and this society if we're so corrupt and we're telling young generations that we can't be, then we have to change something now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132288	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132289	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I was encouraged by my colleague Jovanovic in fact in the replica, in response to you in the reply to your colleague, Alfirev, in fact, which should have been the way we should have gone even though you closely followed today's debate and the course of its presentation today in the Croatian Parliament, at least you were actually talking about the strategy itself and the action plan itself and these 126 activities that the colleagues had read and then had a series of topics that could actually be talked about the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of individual operators of these activities as much as they were successful. So I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm going to raise awareness of something I'd like to share with the public. We all have families more or less, and we have our own children, and I'm not going to tell some kid that we're not trying to spend our time with such a child, or try to buy him out, to either do his own tasks better or learn better, and here we are already in one field of corruption or if you want protectionism, so in the family itself. That's what I'm saying because no society is immune to the problem of corruption. When you look at the actions of certain municipalities, then you will see, or cities, then you will see that the municipalities often know individuals or associations come out to meet that are worse than others just because they would not be destructive or create problems for them, and here we are in the field of corruption. And they also make up counties, when you have certain municipalities or cities that because of the irresponsibility of certain leaders, mayors or mayors find themselves in trouble then the counties meet to help them do their job well then we talk again about one protectionism or one vision, the kind of corruption. Today, there have often been talk of nepotism, nepotism is also a form of corruption, but I'll tell you. The nepotism we speak of and scandalous in the Republic of Croatia is, for example, acceptable to Western Europe. If your grandfather, your father or you were from a branch doctor like academic Rainer, a lawyer, a professor, a musician or an artist, it's acceptable there and you have a better background. It's almost impossible here. When we happen in a situation where either of us or our children can do something, we're in the field of nepotism or it shouldn't have happened, we actually discriminate on such children because we don't think that they would be if we weren't in those positions where we are. And it's also a form of corruption or a change of social consciousness in our society that we don't need to think in such a way. Now, if we come from our representatives, all of us more or less in our constituency meet with it or are warned by our citizens and they're actually telling us about these things. Ask yourself, in fact, how many citizens believe that you do not, through going through a form of corruption, participate in corruption itself or through bribery or through nepotism or through clientism, or through lobbying or through protection to help someone. If in that study that you were talking about, Mrs. Alfirev, or Mr. Skibola, it's one study of the UN related to drugs and crime that actually did one study here in the Republic of Croatia, it's said that out of 10 Croatian citizens 9 is in the field of corruption. I said the days if we painted it in the Croatian Parliament means that 151 MPs 140 must have been in touch or were doing corrupt activities. So these studies, too, we won't have to believe the truth that perception is like that in our society and we have to cut it down. And this report by President Jovanovic and only the National Council is looking for it. So the strategy adopted in the Croatian Parliament and the Action Plan should help develop social consciousness, we need to think, think about corruption very differently. If you look at ministers, tell me how many people in the Republic of Croatia believe that ministers do their jobs neatly and legally, very few people, agencies, seduces, whatever you want. If citizens believe that all doctors take bribes, the vast majority believe, there are doctors who don't take bribes, I'm sure of it. When we talk about church dignitaries or the like, so we're always on the subject of the citizens having little faith in it because we're creating such perception in society, so society in general is hiding, and we have to agree with that. It is up to us as parliamentary representatives and on all public state bodies to work to ensure that corruption is contained safely, but also to work on making people, leaders, fit consciously, consciously with their work. I'll tell you one example from practice. Summer, the kid's had a breakdown, the car crash was, the guy's calling me because he knows he's a friend of my kid's surgeon and he says please go call my kid to an ambulance, he needs surgery. So, I called, and then this doctor friend tells me, so do you think you didn't call that kid that I wouldn't operate, so, in the mental area is both this geographical area or because of our traditions and customs, we're going to, in order to determine or be safe and often because of completely unnecessary things we know how to intervene, and then we're in the field of corruption. I mentioned this earlier about the transparency international because I didn't know if I'd be able to speak enough, but here, let's say today when he said I had 88 points, and they've had the biggest corruption scandal in Europe in the last 20 or 30 years, so I won't repeat it. And another example of the end itself. One secretary of state, I'll say, was in the SDP's power, that secretary of state carried out the competition, there were 46 interested, 5 were admitted, all received exclusively for their knowledge and by competition, so there was no protection, 41 persons who were not received, all were convinced that those 5 persons were admitted by a relationship, and those 5 persons were this secretary of state, that he was telling me, he brought to his office and said, he asked them who had intervened for you, they said, of course, no one and he told them, you see, that now you're not at this table and that you didn't say it, each of you would think that someone had intervened for him, and they didn't. So that's the impression you're talking about, about the perception itself in the Republic, so it's not all as black as we think. Of course, it is too little time, I wanted to talk more about the associations of modern society I wanted and I was convinced that I could be a correction of this society, however, because of their bias they are not, and they could very much help in this fight against corruption, I hope that they will participate in this, and also through the National Council for the control and monitoring of the strategy in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132290	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132291	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Babić, I agree with you in this part of the di you say that you should not be of the official, doctor of the drawer discriminated, however, of course there will be an increased public focus on these cases and that is so. But only when I take an example of the county where you and I come from, can all concessions be granted to the HDZ coalition partners, e.g. ... All concessions to the very coalition partner who is HDZ's, that party, can't all the mayors, the whole family work right in the county, the companies in the county, I mean I don't have to discriminate on anyone, some child maybe, but it can't quite be concluded that the daughter, the son-in-law, everyone has to work in that, I mean, it's just never going to be accepted by our citizens, while the numerous, we see that even, the tribal would upgrade one floor of the building, I've even suggested the amendment, haven't accepted, how much is received exclusively with the party card or HDZ or coalition partners [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not good only [[Intruder: Thank you]] You can check that out. [[Intruder: Answer, response of a respected representative...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132292	... Grandmother...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132293	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Bull, I think what kind of man I would be if I didn't say you were right about a lot of things happening in our country. However, when you mentioned the Split-Dalmatia County, you generalise things normally in your discussions and say everyone, everyone in the county has been admitted by party card, all received for this reason, the county gives concessions to all those in HDZ, and you know that's not the case. So, publicly and transparently and in competition. Is someone just because they were in HDZ, got it, so you're, you're making such an impression, I think it's, that's how you look at it. I don't see it that way, I think that, especially in our county, that the county works both publicly and transparently, that it proved it in the end line, if it isn't, you know that there are people, institutions that can say that they're wrong. that it can be annulled. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132294	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132295	I have a question, dear colleague Babic, about fighting corruption. Let's explain the LNG terminal that's being built in Omislje, we all know that it's not costable economically, that the state is going to spend money, we all know that the gas is embedded, more expensive than the pipeline, so let me explain to me what the logic of the government is, or what the purpose of building that terminal in the Omislim is if it's not corruption, maybe it is, and we know that it's not that terminal or environmental good for the environment. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132296	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132297	You see, if you'd been at this debate from the beginning and listened to Mr. Jovanovic, then you'd understand. So again like Mr. Bull, you're all talking about why, first of all, it didn't happen, and you know in the beginning that it's about corruption, because that would be if it wasn't corruption, and that didn't happen at all, that perception isn't good. I'll remind you two or three times you said that here in the Croatian Parliament, it seems to me to be one of my colleagues and you told me whatever you had in HDZ you were talking about, so remember how you feared the tunnels. So the coloring of the tunnel was synonym for stealing HDZ and you, like SDP and some other parties, kept talking about it. But until today's 9 years, no charges have been filed at all, and on my request to the state's attorney, they said they had a new art for painting the tunnel, 9 years, and 9 years in our public, it's actually that story. on the synonym of the theft of HDZ in the Republic of Croatia, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is not true. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132298	Dear Representative Goran Maras, you have the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, it would be interesting for my colleague Bačić to hear your comment that it is not all wrapped up in black and then state an example from the SDP's government that it is commendable to see that some officials are doing a proper job, but how do you comment on the Environmental Protection Fund this one that out of 29, 30 people are most of them from one of the HNS parties who have been admitted there or are connected to the HNS and are still micro-segmented on Zelin where the director comes from? So why isn't that weird, Mr. Bull? So not only the party but also the microlocation of that party, so it raises suspicion and then of course people don't believe and see everything black, because unfortunately now It's all black and it's black. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132300	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132301	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Maras, look, I know that in the Republic of Croatia any thing that happens, no matter where it comes from, whether political, economic, cultural, health-care will always be found any element that could be linked to corruption. When you're talking about the fund and you're saying they were all from the HNS, I assume you're convinced that's the case. It's possible that the vast majority of them weren't from the HNS, but they joined the HNS on receipt, and that's possible, and I'm not shutting it down. However, I don't like it, and I don't want any of the things that we talk about in the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, is public, to connect it with corruption and to give it, in fact, to harm institutions, and when we harm institutions, when we weaken them then we have fewer opportunities to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132302	Thank you, the next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues I will share my debate in two parts, one is, the first part I will speak of something in principle about this topic and essentially highlight what I was saying at the very beginning. Empirical evidence cannot be ignored, and this is to see as counterpart Jovanovic said at the very beginning, that from year to year the index of corruption in Croatia is getting worse or worse in such a way that Croatia is perceived, and is a more corrupt country and that it is linked to a certain act or not by the act of a particular government. In this case, the index began to drop in 2016, '17, '18. years and now, of course, we expect to see what this year will be like. And then no one can say if this Transparency International index was 51 in 2015 and it is good that fellow Babic also praised the SDP government's example that it was not being hired by a relationship, but on the contrary, that no one had a relationship and now we come 3.4 points below as the government, first Mr. Oreshkovic, and then after that Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, who puts it all together, acts as if it had nothing to do with it and as if he could do whatever he wanted. It is clearly linked, it is clearly linked to the government that took over the business in 2016 and to the government that took over the business in 2017, i.e. at the end of 2016. And we can't get away from it and we don't have to run from it when it's clear facts, the HDZ government has come very clearly, the corruption index has fallen, and ultimately, corruption in the country has been higher. So instead of being 51 he's now 47, 48. And on that side, and on that side I want several examples here very clearly highlighted which also increase Croatia's perception as a non-transparent and corrupt country, and this is scandalous deposing and cheating of its voters by the CNS, it does not smell like corrupt action, but simply makes it different for people not to even explain it. So, if it took off so that this gentleman from Zeline could hire some HNS in power there in order to do so, so as not to take care of his people, and that is why I would say link, and which is why corruption in Croatia is unfortunately experienced in such a way that it flourishes and blooms when HDZ is in position. And another reason is that public companies, both at local and national level, show that the pillar of HDZ and Mr. Andrej Plenkovic's government, Mr. Milan Bandic, Mayor of the City of Zagreb, has been assessed as the worst public firm in terms of the use of external services throughout Croatia. 800 million kunas leak every year without it being transparently arranged and somehow not knowing where is the head, and where is the tail in that entire system. And when you see that HDZ supports its Bandic company in the City of Zagreb, while Bandic supports HDZ at state level, you understand once again why I am talking here about Croatia slowly sinking into corruption. Another example, which I have, by chance, won shortly, tells you, is a public tender that will take place in Croatia's electricity industry. The 2013 and 2019 competition comparable to certain features, a job similar to size, 2013 very liberally set, so that whoever wants to be called, i.e. companies that perform these services and the possibility to perform these services, can compete with dozens of companies in the Republic of Croatia and the competition is worth 70 million kn. In 2019, when HDZ took over for 3 years, however, responsibility for the management of Croatia, but also HEP and supervision, which is there headed by Minister Čorić, similar, means a tender for the same services, is no longer 70 million, but 114 million, for the same or similar business. But now there's not just five conditions you have to meet, now it's on three, four pages, there's one 20. So probably only one firm will be able to do the job and this company, look at the wonders, which has already done it and ultimately, wants the company to remain in play. I will forward it to Mr. Jovanovic, the President of the Council, to look at and discuss a thematic session on public procurement and how we pay for it, because we pay it at the price of electricity, 30, 40% more services, than we should pay for it. And we can be uninterested here and pretend that nothing happens and wait on the phones in a very small number, that this session ends as soon as possible so that we all go home together, but if we're responsible, we won't let that happen and we'll try to warn about these things. Citizens who listen to this, however, are likely to be few, because the transfer on HRT has been interrupted, of course, they spend money, in order to call various characters on information shows and when some scandals are usually the HDZ Minister himself explains what happened to the call experts along with him in the study. So they are not interested in these topics, and there is a legitimate question at all why and the public service we pay everyone together in Croatia, why not just pay the government or HDZ when it works in their interest, not in the interest of the citizens, but what the topic is and what we should be paying for, hey Mr. Shuker, so we pay 40% more for one job, in Croatia electro-economy. No, no problem, I've got a problem, that's why, I've got a problem with it, a terrible big problem, so I could tell anyone Here, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President, it's amazing that in Croatia, the electricity industry, we pay for a similar job 40% more than six years ago to attract attention, to see how illogical Mr. Shucker is, so I said that. [[Let's not beg from the bench.]] I didn't end up turning out even more positive, because you, one of the few HDZs who stayed here, should commend all four, here's Mrs. Rostice, ma'am. Branku from Vodice, so I can commend you all and say bravo and Mr. Chief of the Police. So, every honor, you four stayed to listen, so it's not negative, I wanted to commend you, don't be angry. So on that side 40%, we pay 40% more than we paid six years ago, and that's what we need to talk about here, and what I'm going to talk about, HEP is a special problem, because there are huge, in me, non-transparent things happening in Zagreb holding. And on the other hand, I invite you all to talk very clearly about it here and try to challenge the public's interest so that it doesn't happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132304	Thank you very much. It's nice to thank you, and I commend the same thing that has 5 members of the SDP here, but we have a replica of the respected representative Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132305	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, well, I would also like to commend the debate, fellow Babić, who was before you who set an excellent example, and it is about the coloring of the tunnel and he said that 9 years or so today, after the whole story about 3 times painting the same tunnels has neither been filed nor confirmed. Here is the main problem, and for this reason today and the war perceptions of corruption, therefore, 9 years after the corrupt trades in FIMI MEDIA, we have no verdict, we have procedural errors, a return of proceedings at the beginning, an indictment against HDZ as a party that designed the model of corruption and the withdrawal of money from public companies to finance its own needs and its volunteers, has been returned to the beginning due to the procedure and therefore the perception of corruption is growing in Croatia. In the end, the biggest bad guy turned out to be Mr. Cobankovic, who was peeling potatoes, because he was the only person who confessed to what he did, and these others all had an ex post mind, pulling statements, and that's that. So we don't have criminal proceedings, we have litigation of the judiciary, and that's why the problem of corruption is big.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132306	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132307	Absolutely fellow Djujic and what I want to highlight here as one of the biggest problems, there are cities, such as the City of Zagreb that avoids European competitions, as we could apply for a cable car and 85% of the funds from the EU and not pay 5 hundred million kuna to the most expensive cable company in the world in the city of Zagreb, but practically finance it from the EU, unfortunately we did not because the city of Zagreb avoids it, because the city of Zagreb does not want to spend European money in this way because when the European money is in the game, then there is no half drink, half I am giving it. Then it must be made transparent. And on this side in the city of Zagreb, we need European money, we need to change the concept that represents the mayor of Zagreb and we need to use what Europe provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132308	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132309	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few sentences from my side as SDP's parliamentary representative. I have been following the work of the National Council, practically since its draft in 2006, a significant part of the time since 2007 I took part in its work and as president. And what I can say is that although the National Council does not have direct operational powers, it has played a rather significant role during the EU accession period, especially in the closure of Chapter 23 and at that time I was able to testify to a very large flight, the enthusiasm that prevailed generally in the story of the closure of Chapter 23 and the creation of the preconditions to show that we are ready to fight corruption in Croatia. Unfortunately, now that the time has passed and we are a member of the EU, something similar is happening in some other new EU member states, which is to get the impression that this flight, that this energy has been slowly blown away. That shows the corruption perception index. Because if in 2015, after years of being in a circle of corrupt countries, we achieved index 51 and finally got out of that circle of corrupts that are at 50, it's a shame that this enthusiasm and that belief of citizens in the success of fighting corruption did not continue, but after that first two years we stagnated and here we fell for a third year and fell significantly. So this particular loss of enthusiasm, the loss of breath in the fight against corruption, is currently one of the leading problems I don't even know how to affect. Therefore, this negative trend will certainly speed up the departure of young and educated people from Croatia because if you follow polls that are present in the Croatian public then young people rarely state that it is precisely a sense of corruption of society and of the ability to oppose this corruption to achieve a job they consider to belong to without corruption, nepotism, they lose the will to remain in Croatia. And the numerous affairs that occurred from local to national level, which is especially wrong and these are changes in party uniforms by which the voter's will is absolutely wrong so that without any dilemma, without any exaggeration, and I will agree with the fact that right now our assembly is not responding to what the citizens have chosen and voted for in the elections. Of course, there is responsibility among our coalition partners and in the ranks of the SDP where I personally cannot reconcile with my colleagues who have left the SDP and have joined the ruling majority because it is a direct violation of the voter's will, it creates a negative taste in the voter's mouth and reduces their desire to participate in the elections at all. Here we have European elections, so Croatia was among the least active voters, they voted 20% in the last European elections and only 13% among young people. Therefore, and this is my message regarding the fight against corruption, my people, when the elections are, let's go to the elections, let's vote, let's choose, but let's choose not only led by ideological omens but who will really change Croatia. So today, I mentioned several times, I can't say it again, only 4% of Croatian citizens would report corruption or even louder, even worse as it looks 96% would not. Therefore, raising public awareness of the importance of reporting corruption must go parallel with strengthening the integrity of the public authorities and the efficiency of the judiciary. So it is in vain to raise awareness of the need to fight corruption if we do not strengthen the integrity of the public authority's body from the least municipality to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government at the same time as the efficiency of the judiciary. So, here, even though my colleague Babic wanted to point that way, he actually pointed to a key problem. So I believe that Mr. Kalmeta would also like this process to be over and that it really is said that he is not guilty if he is not guilty, but only the duration of 9 years creates questionnaires in the heads of the citizens why we cannot complete it within a short period of time. Therefore, we have in vain this strategy that we have and the action plan, in vain this action plan is filled with 86% which is almost 25% more than 2 years ago if we do not without implementing it all to increase citizens' confidence in politics, politicians and the judiciary. Therefore, the suppression of corruption involves, at the same time, strengthening the integrity and accountability and efficiency of and the efficiency of officials, politicians, at all levels from the least municipality to the Parliament, while working at the same time as strengthening the role of civil society and creating freedom of the media, in which each journalist will be able to write freely without and under pressure from the editor-in-chief who threatens him by firing, suspending or censoring what he is doing. A survey on the quality of life questionnaire for Croatian citizens says that extremely low confidence is assessed in social and political institutions, with the parliament, the government, the legal system, the local government getting the lowest score of 3 on a scale of 1 to 10. And here I don't mention anyone's party omen, so because we have both SDP's local environments and HDZ's and HNS's, so the general level of local authorities, through the legal system, to the Parliament and the Government gets a score of 3. Therefore, this low trust of citizens is something we should be worried about. We heard other surveys today, Eurobarometer says 80% of citizens have no confidence in the government, there is no 80% in the parliament, in the legal system 71%, in the political parties 86%, in the local government 73%, in the quality of public administration 67% of the research that I have quoted several times, it is so shocking and worrying that I have to repeat it, so only 4% of the citizens trust political parties, only 8% of the citizens trust the Parliament, only 10% of the citizens trust the government and government institutions, only 15% of the citizens trust the judicial system. So these are the numbers that we all have to worry about. Forget about yourself, take care of the public, it once said in the hall of the great council of Dubrovnik, it also says on our website of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and this invited council members to forget about all private interests by entering the hall, to care exclusively for social ones. Thus, all of us MPs, as well as local politicians, should send a clear message with their work, that no public interest should ever be misused in favour of the personal one. Political corruption must be a major problem, but even worse, when it goes into systemic corruption, because in systemic corruption, it creates the impression that it is so widespread, that it has affected all sectors of society and leads to a situation, when all citizens are beginning to think that corruption cannot be fought. So in such countries, bureaucrats follow corrupt examples of politicians and the systemic type of corruption is such, so widespread, that it becomes extremely difficult to stand up to them effectively. So it comes to that skeptical attitude, it's only the one that hasn't been offered a very high price. I'm afraid... I hear among our citizens, I call on you to jointly try to change that attitude and prove that in Croatia it makes sense to fight corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132310	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132311	Thank you very much, Vice President, here's your replica, for your exposure, pardon, Mr. Jovanovic, when you talk about the situation that's incredible in Croatia, so there's nothing in the world, and instead of all of us fighting it, and that's this political corruption, trade, voter cheating, instead of everyone resisting it, it's still being taken, as a healthy for granted, people joke with it, HDZ, Bandic, telling these people that they're chips, usually they're not there in the assembly, there's not even today, so they only come when they need to advertise and realize voters as if they've given them their voice to do what they want. This disgusts me, such a policy must not be, we all have to stand up to it, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ reject this trade politically, it should not be necessary for Croatia, and that should finally be said once in Croatia, do not support it together with Badnic, such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132312	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132313	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Djujic's conflict of interest is certainly one of the main priorities and in the work of our national council, so not every conflict of interest of corruption is, but the lobby of corruption and the detachment of the commission to prevent conflicts of interest is not a good way to strengthen the integrity of the public authority, so before the commission gets positive assessments from various institutions, which came under supervision in the Republic of Croatia. What is disappointing is that of Minister Kustević, who, despite the calls, is to hold another thematic session after the round table, at which we would clarify where problems have arisen in relation to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Administration, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, in order for the law to come into the parliamentary procedure. This has not happened and we today do not know whose drawer the law stands in and why it stands, when it has already reached the coordination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132314	The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132315	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic, so I especially have the rest of your discussion the part where you talk about how much, in fact, young people are the biggest problem, what they see as the biggest problem and why they leave Croatia, just corruption and not just an experience of perception, but really feel like they can't do anything if they don't own a particular party card. So I can even support your claims, through conversations with a number of citizens, where I come from Vodice, so it's these people who have gone, who are dissatisfied, just mentioning that part, that without a particular party card they can't get to a certain job, I can't get any better job.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132316	Thank you very much, the answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132317	Yes, colleague Alfirev, it is something that I believe we can all agree that although we are talking to young people that it will be one of the main reasons why they feel that they must leave the Republic of Croatia because, according to their education, they cannot find a job, if a competition is called, then a rare party card, and even no matter now, which, depending on what middle it is, is the one that decides whether someone will get a job. Therefore, it is certainly not a demographic measure and it will not contribute to the remnant of young people in the Republic of Croatia, nor will it ensure the development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132318	The next individual debate is that respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132319	Thank you, dear Vice President. I just thought I'd fill out the debate briefly in front of the club, which I didn't mention at the time, which was mentioned here about the ethical code, mostly meant parliamentary deputies, but we don't have today's code of ethics of officials and officials in local self-government units, and that's where we should be. But I owe a little public service just can't say, stand up in defense, no need to defend, no need for any discussion, no arguments and refer to some here listed by colleagues. So, yes, in 2016, the citizens elected HNS on a common list with SDP, HSU and HSS, so, we got votes, I mean over 100,000 preferential ones, which would mean 10 MPs somewhere. We based our position on the list of preferential votes got 9, so we even brought one more than we got. And yes, we have made the precedent for the first time in history that within the election cycle we have moved from opposition to position, so far they have been after election cycles with HSS, HSLS, etc., we have done it for the first time, absolutely yes. Why? Because we believed then, and unfortunately now that the country had no alternative. I don't see any alternative for the prime minister today, but for Andrej Plenkovic. I wish there were, I wish there were, is it fellow Bernardic, Beljak, Pernar, I don't know, Petrov, the citizens will judge themselves. And we know, personally, even though I wasn't there and I was involved in that opposition and was a parliamentary representative before and we know for sure that, there is an old saying that says "he who wants to make changes must be ready to lose the election". We've accepted that fact, is new choices something that wouldn't bring anyone apro after these of yours? When we talk about employment, I've been talking here for weeks and I'm going to keep on talking every week about breaking that practice once and for all, if anything else, is she not good and she's poisoning everything. I'm not going to talk about examples from that government, about some of the things I don't even want to believe, some of the writings, these, those, those, who went there, who didn't, people got a job based on the contest, they were chosen, all these doubts are like this and they're just because there's someone doubting if there's 100 people, 114 here 6, 12, 1, 1 if they got it if it's not how it's supposed to be, or if someone was getting ministries at will or not getting it because they wanted to be, etc., no, so we can't talk if we don't talk. I've been talking here for weeks and said only for this pay phone today, but let's not play smart, let's do what Europe already has, we have tools. If you want to get a job in the European Commission or any institution of the European Parliament or the EU, you need to go through a system of evaluation, categorisation or testing through an institution called Epso, which ranks you, which puts you in a single contest, based on the needs of those people who call you. Why don't we do it? I wish we had done it in the previous term, and I don't know what mandate, but from now on, we have the Law on civil servants who, between the two readings, let's open the door for it, we have the Agency for External Evaluation that conducts the state's graduation, she would be invited to be a pandan of the European Agency Epso, to conduct a single competition, let a single ranking list be made in accordance with certain areas, whether it is legal, economic, certain technical directions, etc., etc. And that the fallen simply people are called to further conversations and then it doesn't matter who's where, who's who, who's who, who's who, who's like that. Maybe it's funny for our colleagues now to count as much as anyone has, it doesn't matter, but it's something I see and what I recognize is that's why our people are losing faith more and in this system and they're leaving and that's our obligation. When we talk about the subject, I don't know why we needed to go further, but I had the need to answer, so later we'll probably discuss it through the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132320	No, I'll tell you right now we won't because I'm gonna punish anyone who abuses the breach of the Rules of Procedure that moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132321	I'm glad to hear that, Mr. President... They've already done business with their colleagues, they haven't done anything to themselves, so they probably took this opportunity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132322	Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132323	No, no, everything's fine, I'm glad it's gonna be that kind of attitude. So, when we talk about, just in conclusion, in this report, I told my colleague Jovanovic and really mentioned the city of Osijek as one of the good examples, I was working in that system, in those years, when four years in a row, so one of the 10 cities that received the transparency award four years in a row, from 2014 to 2017, is likely to be for the past year, which has been awarded by the Institute of Public Finance and all of them show that, of course, and has received an unconditional opinion of the revision, we can also work together for as long as, five, six, seven years, side by side. Now, colleagues from MOST have joined us, absolutely without any problems, we are working for the benefit of our citizens, who I am trying to do here, and that is the meaning of everything, absolutely without any, any delays, any bumps, anything, working on a better, what we can all proudly say today that we have such cities. I'm not saying it's the merit of our CEO or our mayor or the mayor.../incomprehensible/... all of us, be it all of us, because we've all made it happen, because we all create this stable majority, and we within this government have made it possible for a bunch of good things to happen instead of a crisis, and I don't know what everything is. And when there's an alternative, we'll talk about it too, but why not, no one's been subscribed to anything. So I say right here he didn't mention it when we talk about units of local self-government and this ethical code and for them to be worth it and I don't think that things can go slowly, of course, overnight, but slowly we have to go in this direction and change that perception because it's coming from ourselves, from every single citizen, and especially us who are this prominent media, politically, we're supposed to represent something, there's a picture, that's what we're sending out, but every citizen who knows, knows, hears, believes, or who doesn't God offers something, corruption bribes has two sides, one that offers, and one who receives, equally guilty, so that's why we have to go from ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132324	Thank you, colleague Maras. He's the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. What is the injured Rules of Procedure and what point?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Article 238 of his colleague said there is no alternative for Croatian voters, that is not true. There's an alternative, the alternative is to not cheat on your voters, you're a candidate in European elections, people don't know who you vote for, when you vote for Gordan Maras, you know you vote for Gordan Maras, when for HNS, you have no idea who you vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132326	So, colleague, colleague Maras, this is you and you are aware that it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have already two warnings I am giving you a warning while, or I am taking away the word until the end of today. We've got a replica, the esteemed representative of Sabine Glasses, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you are a smart young man, but you are completely wrong about your opinion and your position to support the government of Andrej Plenkovic because this country has no alternative. This country has an alternative, an alternative in a country that will be free from corruption, from suspected deals with Agrokora, the acquisition of aircraft, which, an alternative country in which a minister who needs to protect women from violence and provide institutional support will not be charged with being abused by a HDZ official, so it is in your marriage, a country in which quality education, social services and health care will be available, a country in which the rights of minorities and any group will not be violated. You don't see that this country has an alternative, but there is, in the idea of a state. So you may have sold yourself, but that's what citizens can justify to you, but you've betrayed the idea, and the idea is an alternative, a different state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132328	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132329	Here I thank my fellow Voicer although you've been very politely starting this now in the end it sounded pretty ugly, so I've never sold anything at all myself, but this good in the context I can understand. So if you think we've chosen between two evils and chosen less, then that says something about you, I don't think so. If you think all of this today, the agenda point started from 9.6.7. So I don't think it was, we were together, we worked together, all of these same problems as the two parties we solved, less successfully, more successfully, the same was all. I'm just saying an alternative in terms of the prime minister, and that's where I listed the exact names and last names, you talk me out of it and give me another one. Convince me, I hope, and I want it, and you will get my support.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132330	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132331	Thank you very much, here is my colleague and colleague's biggest problem Croatian society is clearly corruption, and this is the main cause of demographic decline, youth departure, disappointed youth, and as a matter of fact, I think here I just watched recently at this session, the pre-lated one, not this one when it was the current watch, I ask the prime minister why teleopers in Croatia don't behave like in other countries, the prime minister doesn't want to answer why teleopers have 42% profit in the Republic and we have the worst Internet, the prime minister wishes to answer, but today I haven't received that response from the minister of traffic. For what? Because of the fact that a dynasty, a family administration is basically with the prime minister by teleoperate and of course it is a profit in the Republic of Croatia 42%, that money is drawn around wind power plants the same case, instead of micro solarines 2.5 billion kuna in wind parks, not one part of the wind in wind power plants is not a single piece of Croatian production, nor is anyone embezzling concrete, and that's said imports, while at the same time we don't want to invest this, while harmful microsolars projects are designed to be independent families and people see it. They see people from the privatization of telecommunications to the way INA went. Here I am, on 11.4.2017, adding a criminal application, which I also told the president of the Anti-Corruption Council here, a criminal application against HANFE and the CNB because of the bonds that were not covered, the bonds without cover, 10 billion kunas that had not responded, allowed Agrokor to use it to see each other now and in public, appeared to be investigating suppliers, but here after 2 years I have not yet received an answer, and I have reported to the State's Attorney's Office. So there's also the governor at the head and in that, in the stability council we have this financial stability, we have the meaning of the representatives of the ministry, the CNB that are in the majority and from the HANFE. I have raised criminal charges against all HANFE and HNB, but today we have, screaming from the front page of Vujčić, who received a trip to the euro area during the time of England-Croatia's play, then he re-elected himself again, and I have not yet received an answer as a parliamentary representative as to what is with this criminal application, so it means 10 billion kuna since 2012 and I have made that paper, which I have, so I have handed over to the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb and the State's Attorney's Office means both to the CNB and to HANFA who have made a huge failure as a regulatory agency and no one reacts. And of course, according to that report, that the European Commission has confirmed in the report that Plenkovic's government has essentially strengthened the last place in the EU according to the criteria of political corruption in the judiciary and in the judiciary when we see that the processes go no one is convicted of INA, no one is convicted of a number of other things. I personally even arbitration would be ours, arbitration might be favourable, not possibly, but probably, we don't have a verdict. I remember I did before and this report is now in '17. And in '18. there but how much this affects all the time because in my Cetina region there was also talk during the war that the money that was intended for the earthquake, when it was an earthquake in the '90s that was re-purposed for the weapons of a billion, a million-and-a-half marks of German and that it was borrowed by a company called Meteor Paper, owned by Emile Tedescho, and it was always said that this money that was replaced for, as a loan was given by the municipality of Sinj, that it had never returned that money. And when I became city councilman, I asked if there was a question, if that money was returned, if I could see the bill, I never got the bill until today. Four times I filed criminal charges, and that money was more necessary for the weapons then because we went to the bare-handed to defend against Vrlika and these parts of Kiev, that money wasn't invested for the guns and never got that money back. I've asked for hundreds of times, at the State's Attorney's Office I've raised a criminal report four times, we see that now Mr. Tedeschi is a great businessman, that he, however, is, and today I ask once again, publicly, where the money that was intended to defend the Chettino End. I believe that for that money, it's bought, it's a weapon, it's to defend itself, and it's not to do any damage to the Peruch's defense. That loan is meant to be taken but today these people are businessmen, these people are powerful, you can't look at them, they manage everything, they're big advertisers. Whoever can look at Tedescho now, you have to go there on, the whole government must go, here's a good associate of Shucker, our Mr. That Representative in the Basketball Union. But a million and a half marks have never been returned for arms. We doves defended in rabatins literally, we didn't have bullets. Ratko Mladic won Peru, mined Peru, threatened the entire Cetino area, burned, raped. Believe me, that money is invested where it's supposed to be invested, and now people like that are the most powerful and wealthy. I once again, I will publicly apologize to that man if he shows that he returned to the former municipality, it is now 6 local self-government, if he returned that interest money, of course, a few years ago he was calculating that it was somewhere around 17 million euros due would. If he's back, I'm looking all the time for an account to show me if that money was returned to the people of Cetina. The money that was meant for the defense of the Cetina region, when it was, the more needed that money was for weapons than for bread when it was meant from the direction of the Knin was attacked by the Cetinski end and the huge victims were. I don't have those answers and of course I wouldn't be in... If it hadn't been for such a subject, I'd only have found out after the war, would I be in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or say I walk my city, those people who didn't have five kunas... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The car transport of Sinj was estranged as a public good and was handed over in the hands of Makarska by not fulfilling any contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Shuker was a minister at the time. As much as I've written, criminal charges, this one, but of course there are counter-applications, so I have to walk the courts. However, it is usurped publically, usurped. Not a concession for traffic, but I'm saying that the entire station is usurped, everything is usurped, robbed, stolen, and that's how it is. So public well-being isn't protected, and that's the question. And the political gigs, the political gigs have a lot to do with, the one thing is, here's Mr. Curaj's... , the other thing is when the political option comes to elections on its own and coalitions with whom it wants and, after four years, and the other coalition is if it chooses you on the SDP list and you go to the opposite side or on the HDZ list on the opposite side, and it really isn't good messages and I think it's political gambling, that it's much fairer, much fairer to call elections, it's much fairer to call elections than to play political games. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another very important thing for me is the local and public procurement and through the local, I won't list it now, we've listed everything, the coloring of the tunnels, this thing, we can list it, but local self-government, here I am in Split-Dalmatia County when I look at concessions, indeed all concessions both at ports and at all, on the beach gets for a strict, example, gro examples of Bol na Brač was. Right on the party's key, there was a concession, had to be replaced, the mayor, as a candidate, was not a new one, and so your coalition partners in the entire Split-Dalmatia County, in Dalmatia 2 billion kunas the time of concession on our maritime well-being. Trust me, we don't charge 10%. Believe me, they created empires. I even hear that down in Makarska, one municipality, I don't know which, if even in the natural good, means a protected good done by some chief in 20 years made himself a house, a villa one, I think, and it's a protected natural well, there shouldn't be anyone to cut off a branch. And that's what people see, people tell me, I don't know if I'm going to get out, and I'm going to have to report it. So huge, huge, look, huge, these are huge messages, bad messages, bad messages. And believe me, I wouldn't have been in politics if it hadn't been for these things, and we're not talking about the waste mob, about everything that's going on and that way. Here I was, briefly speaking my views, starting in the '90s, from the arms money that went missing in Sinjo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132332	Thank you very much. We have one replica of a respected representative of Martinchev-Juritch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132333	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, can I ask you a personal question? ... Do you feel as good as a man, as a believer when you often mention someone's name and it's unverified? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you know that there are families and some children behind these people? When you have some kind of act and you hand it over to the competent institutions, I support you there. That's the way it's supposed to be. Here, for example. One story, former Minister Roncevic, 6.5 years old, that man was persecuted, the agony that he and his family passed, that only they know to find not guilty. And you're very often talking about names, and who knows what they're going to show for it, are they in general involved in some kind of affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132334	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132335	Thank you very much. I'm getting... Emila Tedeschi that while he owned the company that took the loan to Sinj in the 1990s and I filed a criminal report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said that they were in the basketball union together, he was in Cedevita, a colleague was the president of basketball, I know how to play basketball, that there was a lot of investment, it was not an incriminating opinion, there was no incriminating opinion, I mentioned it to them, and I don't know whose name I am yet, so it's a fact, no, so Prime Minister Plenkovic I asked myself. I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic to answer my question, which is why teleopers in the Republic of Croatia are not acting the same as in countries where they come from, he refused to give me an answer. I asked him if it wasn't the influence of the Misetic dynasty. I asked the Prime Minister, I didn't insult anyone here. You very I can tell you, it's a little short a time, I'll draw you what impact it is, it's very simple visible and you'll see these influences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132336	The next individual debate is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I won't. a lot to base on those segments that have already been mentioned in the debates of colleagues who discussed what on behalf of the club, which in individual discussions before me, and concerning some strategic areas in the fight against corruption, which were mentioned in that report itself. [[Please, let's go, not from the bench.]] When we talk about local and regional self-government, the integrity within the political system and administration, public procurement, trade societies, the prevention of conflicts of interest, the right to access information, I think a lot of this has already been said, we have touched a lot of bad examples that are actually slowing down the fight against corruption of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, colleagues talked about the non-functional judicial system, about some bad ones or I will not say unpopular but harmful phenomena in the economy and the management of public finances, also in agriculture and in health. I would like to touch a segment that, in my opinion, all of these areas where colleagues have been discussing today are, of course, important and important to restore citizens' trust in institutions, starting with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HS, police, defence, justice, etc., etc. and, of course, local, local self-government units. But for some things, I'm afraid it's too late. It's very difficult. I'm going to put it in color, correct the wrong Drina. However, where we can create and trade a different approach to creating and empowering a society that is deprived of corruption, or at least it is reduced to the least possible measure, while empowering every citizen in the fight against corruption, it is certainly an education system. Because what we plant today will grow tomorrow. What children are today is tomorrow's citizens responsible. Today they are people we teach, and tomorrow they will lead society and show their example of how they behave. So the fight against corruption won't work long-term in the Republic of Croatia unless we move that fight into our education system. I'll just mention it, so this situation, I wouldn't be creating any unnecessary panic here right now, I wouldn't use it in a word that it's alarming, but some research shows that there are problems and what we should focus on. Maybe, here's a proposal, there's no president of the National Council here, but I believe that he'll hear my words and my kind of informal, and I'm not going to say a proposal, an idea, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to go through one thematic session with those standards of the session where the Ministry of Education actually submits some kind of report, and the measures that have been taken in terms of fighting corruption that might be organised by a thematic session that would be dedicated to just fighting corruption and what we can do in reducing corruption in the education system [[/Intruder: Please. Please.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I don't mind that because the MPs are a little prodigal, I forgive those who stayed Friday afternoon. [[There are 11 of us in the hall. Well, we don't have to talk so that colleague Sabina the Voice can't do what she wants to say, say it.]] What? Yeah, yeah, uh... It might not be bad for the council to organise a thematic session with the emphasis on empowerment in the fight against corruption in the education system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Here you go, colleagues.]] Here in the report they touched some areas, especially areas of higher education and science. They also mentioned some of the measures that may have been created, which serve as good instruments in the fight against corruption, such as the introduction of a state diploma as an objective external evaluation of students at the end of the high school four-year high. However, it also serves as a passing filter for a higher level of education. Similarly, the report also mentioned electronic enrolments in high school, but also anti-corruption agreements with publishers who were signed several years ago in terms of making the choice of textbooks more transparent in schools. However, I have to mention some things that have not been apostropheeded in this report and a comprehensive research called corruption in education, which has been carried out there since the beginning, from the end of 2013 to the middle of 2014 by the Forum for the Freedom of Education and the Network of Education Policy Centres, funded by the EU and the Office for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, gives us very clear guidelines in which to act. So in this study, let's say, we see that as much as 15%, that's where they question themselves, not only corrupt actions in the education system, but also unethical behaviours, and we'll all agree that unethical behaviors are also one step to potential corrupt and to society of harmful actions. Let's say that 15% of parents have confirmed through this research that that justice, for example, is missing their children, knowingly, that children are not unjustly missing that day from school, but that they are being manipulated by grades, because they are not ready for certain tasks, which are being put before them, these are the most frequent studies. It was also 4.5% of parents who admitted that they had personally seen that the teachers were given gifts, so that the child would get a higher grade or a delay in some sort of interrogation. It is also very clear through this research that students of better social status or those whose parents are also teachers or those children who attend regular classes are very often favored by teachers, compared to those children who come from more modest families, children whose parents are not teachers or children who do not engage in extracurricular, extracurricular activities. What is also manifested through another research of young people in Croatia, which was carried out about 15 days ago, is that young people, in fact, would very often reach out for a relationship in order to get a job and they are very high on their own set of priorities and values put employment, security and personal freedom. So the young are to us, they're socially focused, but they're pretty self-centered, looking at how, which makes sense to solve their own problems tomorrow. However, on the other hand, the worrying fact is that they put democracy, equality and rule of law at the bottom of the scales of their values, which are actually their own prerequisites, some kind of social structure, which should provide them with fair employment in accordance with their capabilities and abilities and some kind of security, was economical to any other kind of security, but also personal freedoms. So what we see, that our children, that they actually come out of the education system, come forward, call it that, in the world of adults and in the world of working with a very impaired system of values, even if parents raise them in a way, to be fair, to work, to resist, to work, to work, to work and to be paid out, and tomorrow they will be valued, even if education institutions, their classrooms, their teachers, their teachers, to be raised and directed in that direction, the moment they come out into the world of work, everything they see around themselves, the system of values that they see around them, the way it works, is actually in line with those positive values that they limit. So first and foremost, to conclude, the first and basic assumption is that, very often, politics is seen as an example, in the public, the media is viewed as an example, an extremely important role of the media, which the behaviors will show, they are actually paving that direction, which the behaviors will show as socially acceptable, which is socially unacceptable, the policy is to strengthen confidence in themselves, to be a good example for these young people, to change, if not for themselves, then because of those generations that come. And finally, civic education and education is something that is necessary, something that we simply cry out, because only by developing civic and social competences can we educate young people who will have responsibility, integrity and understand their role.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132338	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132339	The Honorable Chairman, I would like to say, that, although we view corruption as a current phenomenon, unfortunately, much older than our country, since the beginning of the world, we have witnessed corruption in man and we see that in time, the anti-corruption law is growing, there is even the National Council for the fight against corruption. But all these laws, the more they are, the more society is wrestling with corruption, the more it feels like a society in corruption is actually sinking. And the question is, why is that, is that the cause, the bad laws, or is that actually the cause of human nature, that is, human behavior? In my consciousness and the testimony I have, the main cause of corruption is not laws, but people who are corrupt, both those who receive bribes and those who give bribes, both politicians who bribe voters and voters who accept bribes from politicians. You could say, honest hearts that actually our society is deep... in corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone was bribed in a way that got a defense pension, although it wasn't a defense attorney, someone was corrupt, so he got a job, which in other circumstances he couldn't get, someone was bribed with 500 kn on election day, right. The method of bribery is countless and what voters see is exclusively the bribery of politicians, i.e. the situation in which politicians take bribes, and voters do not see situations where they themselves are the ones who agree to corruption. And precisely because voters have agreed to corruption, they are actually ruled by corruption. For every nation deserves the power it has, and so does our people deserve the authority that you choose. Now, the question is, how do we have this kind of power, huh, just people agreed that they wanted democracy, that they wanted that kind of power, they got it. And as they themselves are imperfect, so is this power imperfect. However, what I would like to point out in particular is that if the main problem is from the individual himself, will someone else help us with corruption, or must we go, each of us for ourselves. My deep witness is that in Croatia, at least 90% of Christians live on paper, perhaps even more, but you will see that many of these Christians do not actually live the way Christians should live. So Jesus never took bribes or gave bribes and told us to inherit him in everything. However, as you can see, many people who consider themselves Christians today are taking bribes, giving bribes. And we can actually wonder if these people are Christians and is our country a Christian country and does it even mean 90 and some percent of the believers in Croatia? It's a question that rarely when asked, I dare say never. And the reason for that is because everyone is afraid to offend someone as, so as you can tell me that I am not a Christian, but clearly the apostle Paul speaks in the First Corinthians who are part of the body, who are the bodies of the spirit and if all these people do not live by spirit and we know that God’s law is spiritual but by the flesh, it is clear that these people do not actually know the gospel, do not know Christ, nor do they ever know him. And what these people think is that they can continue to live, painted without God, that they can continue to do as they please, ignore all that is written in the Holy Scriptures, and consider themselves Christians, and believe not only that they will end well in eternity but that they will still succeed in this world. However, how can we expect that doing bad will do us good? And a society that does wrong won't be his right. If we want the country to change, we must first begin to change ourselves and the first step towards changing ourselves is to stop looking at money or material things as the highest value that everyone should worship. Unfortunately, today it's precisely the material things that people are trying to do, and it's this Earth's treasures that people serve. And in fact, their whole lives have been subjected to these material things as if they didn't know, as Paul says we were travelers on this earth and that as barefoot we came here to barefoot and leave this country. And that treasure, all of which we have, not only means it's temporary but it's self-destructive, or decompose. They can set our car on fire or steal it from us, we can have an accident, we'll lose the value of that car. If corrupt court officials can transfer our property, or property to another person, if they are not corrupt people in court, the financial system is simply corrupt so that credits are not repayable and still people can end up without these properties. I dare say that even the state is authorized by its property in the same way. And the question arises is, will the Anti-Corruption Council solve the problem of corruption in Croatia? Will the laws we bring here solve this problem? If we are honest with ourselves and others, we will see that they will not solve the problems, but rather we will see that the problems in the country are becoming more and more and that the state is failing, that the people are moving out of it and that they are actually falling into ruin. And she has one more thought of self - control socialism: “If we can’t do anything different, then we’ll be honest. ” But I invite people now, here, you see that you can't go the wrong way forward, you've seen that this way of life and thinking that you live that just doesn't lead you to good, not to society, so why won't you turn away from that kind of thinking and that kind of life? For what? So give it if it doesn't go any differently and you see it's not going well, so try it honestly, try it right. And I believe that in the heart of each of us knows what he should know unless his conscience has largely dulled that the simple voice he speaks does not mishear, that is, if he has completely blamed him. Unfortunately, money has managed to silence that voice that calls on a man not to go the wrong way, but unfortunately the vast majority of people in our country have decided that quieter voice that is sometimes louder, sometimes quieter, has decided to ignore him completely and simply live in the way of life promoted by the media, corrupt politicians, of course, and the media is corrupt, which is what you're aware of. Or the corrupt religious leaders, meaning corrupt religion, you will see that it is not only a problem of corruption in society but it is the whole religious community that should bring people closer to spirituality, and God has actually completely turned to this world, worldly influence, power in this world, property in this world and the treasures of this world, and in fact they themselves, says in the Holy Scriptures, as well as seducers and seducers. Croatian peoples open their eyes, wake up, come out of the hypnosis that this system pushed you into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132340	Thank you now, on behalf of the promoter, will say something of a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132341	My colleagues and colleagues who have stayed at the end of this whole day's debate, can thank you on behalf of the National Council and say that we will surely respect these proposals, especially this part concerning prevention and related to the future of Croatia, related to education and education, for civil society and democracy, which she finally spoke of, colleague Glasovac, therefore, is also proposed in our work, in the coming period, the thematic sessions dedicated to corruption and education to combat corruption in the education system, academic community and sport. What I also want to say is that I call on all parliamentary representatives to get involved more actively in the work of the National Council in the next period, our meetings are open, although we regularly invite all club representatives, however, this interest was not so great. We also have our own website, on which all the records are available, all the phonograms, so that you can also see what the Council is doing, and you can also get involved in creating some activities in the future. Here, in the end the church was also mentioned, so I will quote to the pope, who said, in every corrupt society, moral and valuable foundation is not good, sin is forgiven, and corruption cannot be forgiven, it needs to be cured first. Treatment in accordance with this debate also includes strengthening the integrity, accountability, efficiency of all public authorities officials, in particular increasing the effectiveness of the judiciary, strengthening transparency and work and decision-making at all levels of government, freedom of the media and strengthening their active role, in the development and prevention of corruption, and at the same time strengthening the role and cooperation with civil society in countering corruption. All of this will further affect the strengthening of public awareness, the causes and consequences of corruption and the role of each citizen, an individual in the prevention of corruption. Today, all of us, regardless of party membership, have demonstrated the political will to fight corruption, now it is important to move from word to word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132342	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132343	The report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy for the period from 27 October 2017 to 15 July 2018 is the applicant of the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the opinion of the Government, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy for the period from 27 October 2017 to 15 July 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 80 votes are in favour, a conclusion is made in the text of the applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132344	So we'll move on to the next point and that's: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on State Property Management, first reading, P.Z. No. 361 Proposer is Representative Miro Bulj, based on art. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, apply to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of the law, were conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economy, the Government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132345	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues who you've stayed with, today is Friday. I am sorry that he is not a minister here, to communicate this, because I have proposed similar amendments, when this law was passed, which is why, above all, state property, one of the biggest unused resources in the Republic of Croatia, and of course there is also a potential danger, that the bad lords of these areas and managed badly, because to better manage, of course, would be better results both economically and economically and would be better development of the Republic. So I propose amendments here in essence, the law provides for a reduction in the power of the minister, when making a decision on the sale of state property, in a way that a decision on the availability of shares, shares, legal persons, of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, as well as real estate and movable property, whose estimated value is lower or equal to the amount of money from the relevant ministers that it makes, but the power is now reduced by 7.5 million now in the applicable law per million kuna, at a given time. With this 7.5 million kuna is a huge amount, a million euros, it is the great power of the Pharaoh's power of the minister. The government disagrees in its opinion, Minister Maric... the sea million euros sign, essentially, to give our assets, either through shares, shares, legal persons, of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, as well as movables and real estate of the Republic of Croatia, which is a huge amount. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this, we help in essence, because it is too much responsibility and possible greater corruption, nepotism and everything that happens in our society in this way. It is one of the important things, to reduce these Pharaohic powers, which in this case Minister Maric has, on the largest and it is the richest ministry, which is the ministry run by Minister Maric and now in this way he becomes, I and I have little reason to doubt, I have reason, and the very reason that this man said, at the time of the campaign, that I am not letting go, I have released his statement several times, that he will protect himself, that he will not deal with politics if the refinery of the INA is shut down, but he has long said, however, he is shutting down. In this act, not only did Minister Maric, but otherwise, this is too much of a million euros, or 7.5 million kuna, to have a minister with his signature to dispose of our property. This reduction to a million is acceptable and I believe that this government, which has passed the law of the sheriff, the local sheriff, where it has given it, has offended the council's assembly and has now once again strengthened this ministry. So we concentrate too much on local power, and so I repeat in the ministries, this ministry is the richest ministry that has the most resources and potentials. Just here, when I look at Dalmatia in the coast from Savudrija to Prevlaka, just how much military there is by the sea, how much there is, the capacity for development and how much power it has. Also, I have foreseen these changes, that from the sale of state property, in areas where state property is located, that money remains at the lowest levels, that it remains our citizens, for what? Because these units of local self-government, if certain land is sold, e.g. For construction, I don't know what, hotels, tourist facilities, that money essentially goes to the state register when the state property is sold, and local self-government is obliged to do the full infrastructure, the communal infrastructure that costs me, and by that act of local self-government instead of that, this is essentially the decentralisation that we're all talking about, I've listed here 50% preventively even more, which happens to you, basically local leaders, if they don't have enough funds to build a municipal infrastructure, these investors, investors or investors, or they won't start building, or they won't have the conditions to start by investing their investment, for example, listed a tourist facility or anything, and at that point local self-government is financial, so there's not enough and they're going to have to have to have to be able to pray now the state, central government that's income from the sale of that property in the area, so much of that area, and that part of the state, and I think that half of the state, and half of the state would be in fact. I expect you and the amendment to some kind of, so that you say a lot is half, let it be 40, 30%, but let it remain local community, local self-government at least that money that doesn't have to ask for municipal infrastructure and not just municipal infrastructure and changes and spatial plans doesn't pay the state for central changes regarding local changes in spatial plans that are needed, so we have a problem here, the state in the area of selling its property in the territory of units of local self-government, all coming in, and the entire municipal infrastructure is due to do local self-government, so it's huge money. For this reason, in most part of the Republic of Croatia, because of this behaviour, because of the centralization of this money, because of the vacuuming everything according to the central cash register in Zagreb, we have 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia empty, we have a problem, here in my Cetina area, and in Lica, and in many of our parts of Slavonia, we do not have a pediatrician for our children, 50,000 inhabitants, we have no radiologists, why, is everything being sucked into regional self-government, the central state, and very little remains local self-government. In this way, if 50% of the funds received were to remain local self-government, we would have to know that now and local self-government and for European funds will have a shorter period of time and a greater tributary of the insurance funds within the budget, which means that this way, if we do this, we will at least help those local self-governments to manage the infrastructure and to have other purposes that money, and especially when we mention what we haven't used enough, and these are EU funds to the funds I repeat, we will need now an increased amount of funds from their own, so, from the budget of the unit of local self-government. Once again I'm going to repeat these two things, the first thing, we're going to cut from 7.5 million to million, and here we're helping the minister in fact not to get involved in some kind of corrupt business or consciously or unconsciously if we're reducing that amount, 7.5 million is huge money. The other thing is decentralisation and justice towards the areas where the country is being sold, is the unit of local self-government is essentially, that nation is the state, is what your country, your territory, without the people, so we can't do these 2/3, we can't all go to the central register and because of the circumstances in which there are numerous municipalities and cities, we all realize that it's too many because there would be a tribal of a different little way and county all that they take themselves and all the money that's decentralised goes across the county doesn't essentially end where they need to end, it doesn't end in local self-government, but it's county is a flow boiler that's full of stones and already more money stays in the county, but in those places where the triba comes, and these are the local self-government that are the most needed. Here, I would like so many colleagues and colleagues, the Government, of course, as far as I can see, did not support it, the Committee gave its opinion not to support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Property, but I believe that it is fair to local self-government, that it is fair to the people of these locals, to the citizens, to be able to launch projects, that the budget, to have more financial capacities and opportunities and to code for EU projects and our ministries, and in this way we consider the dependent units of local self-government where, as you saw in Lika, there were more ministers and members of the Government in Lica than residents, behind each bus minister. It happens to you and then you go promises, people are addicted, leaders are addicted, farmers are in trouble if you can't invest in them, local self-government directly, can't have incentives, no organised transport, no organised education, no student transportation, no equal right to schooling, nothing, mainly in underdeveloped areas. I would ask you once again, here, I am sorry that the minister does not come that you do not reject this proposal just because decentralisation is very important to all of us if we continue to decentralise in this way we will have a state, it will be only Zagreb and a few other major cities, and 2/3 of the RH will be empty, if these children will not have health care, women will not have radiologists, so they will die in the ranks, they will not be able to examine the radiologist on the breast ultrasound that is happening, so I expect you that the ministry does not just refuse this, if the minister wishes to have too much influence. Here, once again, these two things are supported, decentralisation is very important, strengthening local self-government if the triba prescribes by law, if this money is prescribed by law to be spent purposefully on municipal infrastructure and investment in municipal, it means that if the triba is to be funds exclusively intended.../incomprehensible/... then we have these thousands of opportunities or rules that the minister can make that money to be spent, I don't know, but to be precisely dedicated to certain things or projects or communal infrastructure, in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132346	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative of Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132347	Dear counterpart Bulj, you know what will be interesting about the vote, it will be interesting to vote on how the representatives of Mr Milan Bandić will vote, since this law therefore goes to the benefit of the City of Zagreb, given that about a month ago we came to the document that the City of Zagreb is losing billions and 400 million kuna, that they blamed the government for this loss due to tax reform and still voted for tax reform. With this law of yours, therefore, certain parts of the money will be forced into the City of Zagreb and may be reduced. So they didn't even vote for your bill when you proposed an amendment for free textbooks, and then they just proposed that amendment, so it would be interesting to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132348	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132349	Here's what I'm sorry to say, thank you very much, in the replica of what the ministries are silently.../incomprehensible/... count for four hours so they have nothing to say. I wish the representatives of the ministry had come forward because they have the same I think business rights, to report and to say their views on a very important topic, of course I will be visiting the municipalities and the cities of which are being sold, we also have a problem in Zadar County, in the municipality I can't remember, but people have called me where the country that was given for one purpose was rescheduled for a residential space, so that's what this state property was for to gain a profit, and that's what I have information about. Of course I will go with this towards the state's attorney's office and that, for this reason I say, because of these things I say and I expect that, that this one, and that Milan Bandic of course his club will support this although, as his coalition Vrdoljak tells them, Pupovac will so they will agree, but it is the fact that decentralisation, but it is not a problem for Milan Bandić so much the problem is 2/3 of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132350	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative, Davor Loncar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132351	Thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, respected State Secretary, colleagues, when it comes to the Law on State Property Management, it was wanted and the management of property predominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia changed. The practice so far that, until the adoption of this law, has created long-term procedures and procedures, thus causing immeasurable damage from all the programmes and implementation of various projects that could not be realised, nor will they be prepared for the sake of the unresolved ownership situation. Today, this law allowed faster transfer of rights to institutions which are obliged to prepare the necessary spatial and project documentation from which the need for land that can be used for economic, social and social purposes is apparent. The latest indication of the justification of the current law is that it has already shown its consistency because, throughout the Republic of Croatia, land transfer and other real estate to the permanent management of units of local and regional self-government is given the right to pursue the same purpose through design, adaptation, construction in abandoned spaces and properties. I therefore do not see any reason to restrict the powers of the ministry or the minister to transfer the necessary land or property to units of local and regional self-government to permanent management. As for the amount of property the minister can decide on himself, I consider it a major step because it has therefore accelerated and shortened the transfer of land from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia on which projects need to be implemented, which so far has not been possible without a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a painful procedure. Furthermore, it is illogical that some of the assets of the sold land owned by the Republic of Croatia, located in the premises of the units of local administration, must be returned 50% to the same ones, for which they are not owners, because this would mean that they do not respect the ownership rights and rights of their.../incomprehensible/... wherever they are. When it comes to transparency on the implementation of procedures, I stress that it is very good or even excellent because all legal parameters are respected from the availability of authorised assessments, tenders until the signing of the contract and there can be absolutely no conjecture as it wishes to be pointed out this way. That is why it has long been expected to finally change from.../incomprehensible/... today's law compared to earlier laws that Minister Maric did and recognised, how inactively abandoned assets should be made available to units of local self-government that can in their premises, plan and realise projects that create new values and thus create new jobs. I must make sure that the articles of the 13th and 45th laws, on which exactly,.../incomprehensible/... are effective in saying what the principles of availability and economic governance are in favour of the units of local administrations. Therefore, the proposal to supplement the Law on State Property Management proposed by colleagues Bulj, HDZ or the club cannot support it because it does not contain a legal clarification of ownership rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132352	Thank you very much. The individual debate was first reported by counterpart Lovrinovic, gone, lost his right to debate, and then colleague Sasa Djujic, gone, lost his right to debate. So, on behalf of the promoter, the final thing will be said by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132353	Here, thank you, dear colleagues from the HDZ Club for giving their position, although it does not surprise me, so it is written and so must be, I am sorry that the representatives of the ministry did not manifest themselves because the right here is known to be the property of the state, it is known that the unit of local self-government, it is known what is the amount and it is known in what way it was essentially shared. If it's anything 100 kn, 50 kn stays local self-government, 50 kn goes to the State Treasury. So it's very simple. It's an area of local self-government units, that's where people live, where people have certain needs. We today have this property of a state that is not managed well, which should be used, but we have areas as vast as the Dalmatian Zagora... which have no water supply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have a problem now and that one. Because that money that stays, you should stay dedicated. He stays in the state. These citizens down in two-thirds of Croatia, they are not citizens who are not citizens of this country. Well, it's not just the central state and the cash register, it's all citizens' money. And this is how it would be known, 50% of the funds remain in local self-government units, they would increase their financial opportunities, it's transparent and it's possible to do that, it's known that state property and clearly I say, 50% in this law, the proposal to 50% of local self-government units is precisely what local self-government is due to the project document. spatial plans, project documentation, everything to be done, local municipal infrastructure is required, a unit of local self-government is required. And then he brings a unit of local self-government that he has to beg here with ministers, the minister gives himself the importance of having a session of the government and in Split, where there is nothing in any of the projects. All the projects are... So 5 times back Dracevic, the state returns to the city of Split, and a little church,... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] all calmed down together. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And then again I don't know, after five years again the same thing, five years ago, Sanader was already giving it to Ivo, uh, military or opening various projects like Ravlića Drvenik, it was open several times the start of building that tunnel. So we have a number of projects and everything the government has written in essence, irrigation of the Sinj field, irrigation of the Vrgorak field, irrigation of the Imot field, numerous projects. And this way, if the local self-government unit stayed, they could invest in these projects, so at least they could run, they would have money financially, this all depends on the election until the election, like, I said, an example like in Lica, when these municipalities that don't have enough money actually, these are burned country, the Lika, the Dalmatian Zagora, the Straight Wheels most of it, it's the burned country, these people literally live, I went through here a few days ago Benkovec, I was at the fair, a huge number of people, so I went up to Obrovac, next to the Jesenice, there was a protest up there where they throw poison. We are now down to throw dangerous waste, in those areas is close to Zrmanja, it's without a problem that waste mob, that area, we have numerous... But there's nothing left in those parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it would be fair to leave that money to those parts and that 50% of the assets from the sale remain state property remains to the units of local self-government. That's minimally fair. So that children have the right to textbooks, to have the possibility of kindergarten, not having to pay all parents because the many don't even have the opportunity. That's what we did in Barcelona in 2002. The European Council adopted. In 2002, that all children have 90 percent of children until 2020 have the possibility of being in kindergarten from three to six years old, we don't have them. We have numerous mountain-mounted laws that are fraud. Here, this hill-mounted law would say that my colleague Šipic, I don't know who else gave the amendment from 40 to 35 means 35 million kuna, but there were 45 units of local self-government, and with 87 units of local self-government, so... They've expanded this range, and the envelope has only increased financially by 10-15%, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it was then boasting how the amendment was accepted... The Minister of Finance was having a hard time breathing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think that's fair. It's not fair just partying, is it, that money because I'm aware if the mayor isn't from HDZ he's gonna have a lot to court ministers and mayor, and that money is to be invested, I know, an example I know where they are I'm in... I can tell you in Imotsky that to take out a sample of asphalt, a sample, you'll be all election cycles when they were first and second and third, and fourth, after the war, it was also a national charge and so, exactly when they were local, when they were parliamentary, when they were presidential. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can see exactly, you just throw the asphalt, you throw it to the chicken, it's asphalted, but in municipalities and people you need to get to vote. But that's not good, you don't live off that asphalt. So let it be a macadamic road, but let's have jobs, let's bet the kids have a chance to live, have a pediatrician, have women be able to perform ultrasound, check the ultrasound of the breast, and that doesn't have the possibility. So I think this is fair to those parts. And here there's no ownership problem here I don't dispute here ownership of what my colleague said on behalf of the HDZ Club, it's state property, but when it's sold 50% to local self-government units, it's left to not be that because this is centralized. Believe me, two-thirds of Croatia are empty. If it keeps working like this, we'll have empty, if it's interest to have a state, only territory, and we have empty, then it's not good, it's not fair, it's not fair. I think this is a minimum of what's fair and what I'd have to do now. The promise of a fast road, the union of Sinja with the Kukuzovci... 'Cause we've been bypassed, so you're running, I'm supposed to be doing protests, I've got to get the people up, because you don't accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You centralize and strengthen your power, strengthen the power of the minister, that the mayors have to come take pictures with him, and then publish on the local portals. Here, we were at the minister's, he... It belongs to you gentlemen, folks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] His dad didn't give him that. Is that his? Is that a minister? It's not. Why should I give him this much authority and why not give half of it to the people? Why? But the poor chiefs are also dependent on the mayor's goodwill. Why can't the mayor fall? Very difficult. He decentralised funds come to him, he divides them, whoever's better with him will get more. Well, it's a disaster. There's no criteria. If you're his, you'll get it and it's like that with the minister and it's not good, it's not fair, regardless of the HDZ in power, MOST, SDP, it's not good. In this way, let's solve at least that we financially strengthen fiscal capacity, strengthen local self-government. And then he'll make it possible to have free textbooks, then he'll cut the cut, so there'll be better living conditions, people will have more purchasing power, so there won't be 8 or 10% of how I don't know her in Zagreb, which is 15%, but Zagreb itself has this complete hospital infrastructure. There are more hospitals in Zagreb than from Split, Dubrovnik we have, Split and Dubrovnik. The fact that it's a million and a half people, it doesn't matter, at all, and what's Hercegovina's back, and how many are in Zagreb? It's all centralized. So our people are coming to be treated in Zagreb for what? And then, of course, Minister Kujundzic promises, because the place is patriotic, he wants these people to get a large number of votes and we're going to make a hospital in Zagvozd, we're going to do it daily here, but that's not good. It is necessary to strengthen these areas to keep people alive and that is only fair and fair. It's minimal what we can do to make these children live, to create new good. So when I was in Gorski Kotar, I mean when we talk about Gorski Kotar, then when the snow is of course, everyone is photographed, the ministers, the baggers come, all clean and of course afterwards there's a huge problem that the roads remain damaged and the big trucks are chasing the balvana, it's being pulled out, it's all exploiting and people don't have enough money, these cities that can restore it, and the holes hit on the roads, it's a disaster. And those poor people have to pray then give us 10. 2 million, 5 million, 6 million. And when I see how much the woods are exploited, I mean come yes, but you should leave that people something. Well, you don't have to centralize everything or get to Benkovac, the best picture she showed down there, the man bought half a barrel there and everybody gets out of the car before the election, marching. I mean, look, let's be honest with those parts. Here, so people don't have to look at us in election campaigns, pre-election campaigns. And there's nothing fairer than 50%. Well, here, I ask you to cut it down, it doesn't have to be my proposal, you cut it down, it doesn't have to be 50%, but leave something to local self-government not to be dependent on the central state, on the ministers, and to welcome them down, you have to roast the lamb, 70, 10 times the same thing opens up, the lambs burn before the elections. It's disgusting, it's disgusting to the people, and that's why young people leave, because of you, you want to create perception, counter-perception. I mean come down, go down, I think if you have time. I'm gonna go down the Dalmatian mountain path now, I'm gonna go through Lika, so there's no cattle anywhere, there's no people, there's no kid's salary, the birthplaces are closing. These are huge problems, so there's so much injustice to those parts of our undeveloped, injustice hurts. Well, at least this part, I think, because that money will definitely be decentralised to somewhere, that money that comes from property. So leave the opportunity for people to invest in these places, to secure the communal infrastructure, that this money that they purposely, this money that they have, which is small, to reduce a little bit of people, to make something at local level, to keep you, which kuna in their pocket because these people are underpaid, there's no money. So, once again, here you are, although you won't be able to show yourself, I know that you've come to such a difficult pain because I know that the minister told you to come over there, sit down and keep your mouth shut. I'm sorry the minister didn't come, I'm sorry, but I think this proposal is quality, not that it's mine, because it's about decentralisation and we're keeping this minister from his Pharaohic powers not to go all the way into corruption and the problems we find... A billion euros is being decided by the minister by his signature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you know what power that is? Huge power. I'm sorry there aren't any colleagues here, MPs and counsel, I've spoken unfortunately here in front of an empty assembly, I'll have time, I'll go around the cities of ordinary, I'll explain what you didn't accept, it's my obligation to those people who gave me to represent them in a large number of preferential cities not because... They choose rather than because of how the ministry behaves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when I look at how many mayors, the captain, took pictures with the ministers, the minister will give them this, the minister will give them that. But when you empower these people, these people are independent local self-government and you create them addictive because they can't stay a mainstream party in power unless they're captains addicted. It can't, you just have to keep them dependent, I'm just looking at this problem here, but when we talk about this money that decentralisations into the county needlessly. Why? And that money that you're going to pay off of the property, then you're going to decentralize it in the county and then, of course, the mayor directs that money to the local leaders who are loyal to it to win the election again. And the one who's not loyal to him, it's so addictive that he's not, look, one thing, I'm against... The system, but you've made bigger addicts than city leaders except Milan Bandic, who here all the time with his Assembly MPs meshetars, I propose free textbooks, he doesn't support it, after a year he prescribed it to relieve his fiscal, financial problems that he... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] promised to take over his country, but it's ugly when people look. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only can Zagreb live around it. He can't live. There are a huge number of areas down there that are beautiful, that tourism develops, that renters and beds develop, and that we have tourist offers, we have downstairs gastro offers in our surrounding areas and in Slavonia. We have a number but there's no one living this way because they can't invest, they don't have anywhere to live. I just don't know if you see what I'm saying, that there's addiction, and because of this addiction, and because of that money they need to pay, he's going to hire a dozen new jobs in the county. So I also suggested that money be paid when you return decentralised that another building in Split-Dalmatia County is built towards the river and that one floor be raised for all the natives, people have no place to sit, no place to sit the newly admitted. So we're doing the wrong thing, we're chasing people. I wish you'd come out here, if you'd said your own proposal, at least partly about this decentralisation, thank you to your colleagues and on behalf of the HDZ Club, because they were the only ones who discussed, of course we wouldn't agree, but I'm sorry the minister didn't come here, I know that he didn't have the courage, while he was here as a parliamentary representative, he was loud, he called out for the sale of gold and for the refinery, and all of it was, now suddenly he's got his pick in the ridge and he's silent. You can't see him at all. I was in one short term with my colleague Maric, he was quite so progressive, revolutionary, and I see that he wasn't, that he was quite... So this is how I see him there, when he was, I think even Dilichka when he was together, he went down there, he attacked the CNB, he attacked Mr. Vujčić, he sees him with him, he doesn't care about it now, he quickly changed his family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he wants power, I see he's up to the power, he loves it, he likes to run the great forces, that 2/3 of it is gone, that Goran Maric, right, is a little bit of a problem that he voted for Istanbul, so he's going to have to give some more to the church, but by the way. Here, say hello to him, tell him it would be nice, if he had told you to at least turn around and say that he has tremendous power and that he is not working in the interests of the people, what he was saying as a representative, but against the interests of these citizens. And that he must be ashamed and ashamed not to come to these suggestions. I know you won't get out... You mean, you'd like to get out, call him by phone, I can wait for him, but let him be ashamed and ashamed, because of how he behaves, because of what he's been saying here in Parliament, he becomes an ordinary autistic, he's worse than those who have such a worldview, his life, that he's just walked in, he's got a spoon in his honey and he's been silent and he's doing obediently, and now he's become a liberal, than he was an anti-liberal, he's been for everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So good, he did well in this government, he behaves well, but also say hello and tell him he's ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132354	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this point, we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and we will continue to work on Wednesday, 20 March, at 9:30 and the first item will be the proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulations2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of public services and a common rule on the financial transparency of the port, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 595. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-15-0.u132355	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Property Management, P.Z. No. 361st Proposer is Representative Miro Bulj, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on State Property Management is not adopted, let us vote. Please concentrate. I find that with 79 votes for and 1 against, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. This brings us to the end of free debates and we move to the agenda of the first item today: - Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 595. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to offer an additional explanation, respected Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, please.
