ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u124000	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs and MPs. As announced yesterday, the president of HS Gordan Jandrokovic will now address us on the occasion of the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u124001	Honorable MPs and MPs. On Sunday, January 27th, the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims is marked. On that day, the whole world pays deep respect to the victims of Nazi persecution and genocide against the Jewish people and members of minorities, but also to all victims of Nazi and fascist regimes during 2. Holy shit. The war. Today, on the Jewish part of the cemetery Mirogoj, we laid a crown in front of the sculpture of Moses with the participation of the President of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, Ambassador of the State of Israel, Mr. Ilan Moru, President of the Jewish religious community, Beth Israel in Croatia, Mr. Aleksandr Sretkovic and President of the Jewish municipality of Zagreb, Mr. Ognjen Krauss. And Ambassador Mor is with us at the beginning of today's plenary session, so I welcome him again. 73 years ago, the Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz was released on January 27th. This infamous place symbolizes today and all other places where genocide was committed against the Jewish people, but also the systematic extermination of other unwanted groups during Nazi and fascist regimes. Auschwitz symbolizes the death of 6 million innocent people whose only fault was the difference between the chosen. The Holocaust represents the greatest horror in history during which, according to one of the surviving renowned writers Primo Levi, never so many human victims were extinguished in such a short time and in such a lucid combination of technology, fanaticism and cruelty. And today, after 73 years, we still can't understand why such a thing was possible. Or to paraphrasise the famous Jewish philosopher Emil Fachenheim, we can only understand that the Holocaust is incomprehensible to the normal human mind. The Holy Jewish book of Torah teaches every member of the Jewish people that it is his duty to remember, but it is also the duty of the whole world to remember the victims of cruelty, inhumanity, fascist concentration camps and suffering that people have been subjected to. Remember 6 million human fates and their unspeakable stories. Remember every victim's name. Today we honor the memory of all who have suffered and died from people who have been blinded by fear and hatred. We remember their families, as well as everyone who survived these horrors and who were and were, forever marked by the memory of the surviving days of horror and shame and who, despite the great trauma, tried to return bravely to normal life. It's our debt to them. In addition to our obligation to remember, there is our obligation to listen to the testimony. Primo Levi, who survived the experience of Auschwitz and who devoted himself to his moral strength and intellectual strength to the fight against the forgetfulness of Nazi hell, said: We should listen because, apart from our personal experience, we collectively witnessed a fundamental unexpected event. Basically because he was unexpected, that no one predicted him. That's what happened, so it can happen again, and that's the core of what we have to say. It can happen again and it can happen anywhere. And that is why our obligation, apart from remembering and listening and acting, is to prevent history from happening again, and in this action, we should also be guided by the actions of brave people, who, at the time of the darkest turmoil, refused to be passive observers. We call them the righteous among the nations because they are aware that they are risking their own lives and the lives of their children, safety and freedom, selflessly aiding the Jewish people and thus showing that they know how to distinguish between right and wrong. Among them were 117 Croatian righteouss, which are known for the time being. These were people of different religions, political and other beliefs, but above all, they were people of vertical consciousness. They can be an example to us today that each of us can and must be a righteous one among the nations, which means that we must not be passive witnesses or participants of anything unacceptable. That we can't be indifferent. Because as Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel said, the real danger is called indifference. The opposite of love is not hatred, but indifference. The opposite of life is not death, but indifference to life and death. That indifference can lead us today to forget what happened yesterday. Or that we think it was just a moment of our distant history. And therefore we must fight against it with our consciousness, our knowledge, our recognition of the truth and our struggle for man, his freedom and his dignity. And our civilized and humanistic values. And it is these humanistic values, the value of freedom, justice, tolerance and respect for another man and his rights, that are the foundation of the identity of the modern democracies that constantly bind us. And who we must fight against ignorance, hatred, denial of truth, intolerance, racism and xenophobia and hate speech. We must keep in mind that the Holocaust has not begun its executions. He manifested himself through speeches, and then he switched to a violation of fundamental human rights, at the height of his wicked swing turning into the most cruel genocide. And we need to be aware that a simple prejudice can lead to an xenophobic sequence. And so nothing is insignificant, banal or relative. Lessons learned from the Holocaust are particularly important for young people and future generations, as they will tomorrow be leaders and creators of opinion. Therefore, it is vitally important that what the Holocaust means and how this learned experience can help create a more tolerant, fairer and inclusive society in the future. They need to be taught to be against the hatred and intolerance of any kind and to respect another man and his diversity. Today we remember not only the victims of the Holocaust, but also the victims of Vukovar, Skabrnje, Srebrenica and all other crime scenes, and we send a message of hope that we learned from history and that we want our societies to be dominated by the triumph of human values over human destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u124002	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs now invite you to pay tribute to all the victims of the Holocaust together, victims who must remain forever in the collective consciousness of humanity so that these crimes will never be repeated again. ... May their glory be eternal, and let us never forget them. [[One minute of silence.]] Dear MPs and MPs will now continue as announced with the agenda and we have the first item today: - Final proposal of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam, second reading, P.Z. No. 396 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the second reading of the law, may be submitted at the end of the debate pursuant to Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law of the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Justice Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125791	Thank you very much, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us the final proposal of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam, so we are in the second reading, and although by content, the law is not too great, but for us it is an extremely important law, because this law regulates the status of the trainees, regulates the way they are admitted to justice in our bodies, regulates and finds justice exams, because the trainees are extremely important to our judicial system. They're our advisors tomorrow, they're our judges tomorrow, they're our state's attorneys, and it's very important for us, at that first, early stage, in a certain way, to get the best education possible. Being a trainee, that's what I would say in the legal profession, in a certain way and privilege, because in those actual year, two days, as they conduct in law enforcement, I would say that they see almost everything, within our courts, see both the vertical procedure, and the civil proceedings and the commercial courts are therefore, the system cares about them so that they get what knowledge they have in college while studying, see in fact how it applies and how it works in practice. This law just regulates it, I think it rests on objectivity and justice. The minister appoints an exam, a commission that actually cares about those who are the best to apply for trainees. What is important in this regard is also taken into account their grades at the university, taking into account the test of how they will solve it, and of course, after that goes the last stage, it is that structured conversation where their motives, their wishes are examined, and when all these points are summed up, a ranking list is established, and by that list, actually, the minister as the commission suggests, then draws up who is where they are received. After all possible practices have been carried out, therefore, both in the civil court and in the criminal court, both in the commercial court and in the state's attorney's office, when all this is over, then the preparations for a judicial examination will go. The judicial exam, here, I'm looking at some colleagues, who have also passed that story, is actually an extremely difficult exam, because it's in some way, laying down and checking the knowledge of the whole of that material that is acquired in law school, but this time it has one dimension, where it has to be shown and how it works in the peach. It must show understanding, the functioning of these theoretical knowledge in the scratch. And so it is extremely difficult and this whole procedure is to get personnel who will be able to carry the most important functions in the judiciary tomorrow. What's important, by this new law, we want to make things easier and easier, because as far as the judicial exam is concerned, here's, the law in force, we have, therefore, 5 colleges that have the oral part, before that it is necessary to do 3 actions, so judgments from civil, criminal and now of administrative law, and after that, it comes, therefore, in part of oral reply to five colleges. So far, if one of the candidates is in one part, so one college didn't pass, he had to repeat the whole exam. Here, we don't really think that it's necessary if someone doesn't meet in one piece, we leave him with the possibility that this part goes especially to the correctional, that he doesn't have to write, so new actions, that he doesn't have to go through everything that he's been through before, and we think that it actually makes it a lot easier on the situation and a little less stress that people have in that exam. And what's important here is we're giving a little more weight to administrative law than it's ever been before. The administrative right is, here, it's a very, very wide area and increasingly significant in application. I'd say, in fact, when we're born, we meet with administrative law because someone puts us in the birth certificate, and actually when we're gone, they put us back in these other books. So the knowledge of administrative law is extremely important through this law and the introduction of that third administrative right, we give a special and new dimension. We also want to facilitate what we want, but through these reliefs we do not want to reduce the importance and importance of the judicial exam and its complexity, but rather we want to relax the situation a little so that people do not go through this stress, and yet on the other hand we keep quality. We've had for all the other candidates who have come from both law enforcement and notation, up to 150 hours of theoretical education at the Judicial Academy, we don't think it's necessary this time, in order to free them from financial and other obligations, we're moving them, but we're going to leave it as a university opportunity that will be organised within the Justice Academy. Whoever wants to, who thinks it helps, will be able to go. I'd say, one of the great leaps of this law is that we're returning that institute that used to be called volunteering. So, we return to the Institute of Professional Training for the purpose of passing a judicial exam, it is not based on working relationship, as we now have the trainees, but it is, those who want to volunteer in some way, we will pay for them pension and health, we will pay them travel expenses, and they will actually pass all these programs that pass and the trainees, and thus we will actually increase the number of people who will be in our courts, all of them have mentors and who, in fact, will also be in good shape tomorrow, they will be able to pass the judicial exam, when they pass the judicial exam, then their chances are greater, simply, on the market today we have a large number of young lawyers who, in fact, are hard to handle, many jobs are filled, and in this way we will ensure that they get the opportunity to pass the judicial exam before they get there, and after that they are likely to work. So, here, in relation to the first reading, there are some significant changes here and there are no, we have harmonised, in fact, these remarks that we have received from the Committee on Legislatives, so that the law is not technically regulated. I thank the Legislative Committee, and I suggest that, here, after this debate in Parliament, we accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125792	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125793	Thank you. Praise is worthy of your efforts and your desire to help and enable the trainees of the legal profession such as this one Law. But at the same time, your government has done nothing for a disastrous move that the doctors have abolished the traineeship. So, if you need lawyers and how you need doctors because that's what students are looking for, and that's what their mentors are looking for, doctors, except that your government keeps deafening it. In Germany you have a year and a half traineeship, in Austria you have 3 years, in Sweden you have 18 months to 24 months, so it's not fixed, and your government keeps its eyes closed before the profession requires that they have a traineeship, and you're deafening it. So, you're looking, of course, for the trainees of the legal profession, but doctors and young students are crying out for a team to keep a traineeship because it's something that is the backbone of our system that will be in 10 years. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125794	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125795	Thank you very much for this question, this replica. Anyway, we're talking about interns here today, interns in the justice system. As far as the health system is concerned, health reform will be, I believe that the best solutions will be found there too, so that young doctors, in fact, will satisfy their ambitions, and to get as good and health systems as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125796	Next replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić:
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125797	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, first congratulations on the final proposal of the Law, I think it will benefit a very large number of our young colleagues and I thank you What are you? [[Intruder: colleague Bulj...]] Thank you for just coming to expose the law in person. [[Intruder: Can]] I'm only interested in two things that were between the first two readings, and that's about art. The 35th and re-access to the exam itself remained the 4 months that it had to wait until the exam, and we know that, I think, the Association of Lawyers, asked that it be reduced to one month, that there be no such difference and this is related to enrollment, if someone was in law school, then passed on, I don't know, to the university or to the state service, he's no longer involved in the law enforcement exam, so I'm wondering if he's considering whether he's going to introduce himself afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125798	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125799	Thank you very much. This internship will now be able to count on what you're talking about, and as far as these four months are concerned, it's our assessment that it's an objective deadline in which, in fact, it can be prepared, quality perform and repair and finally pass the exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125800	The next replica of the esteemed representative, John Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125801	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The issue of training venues for graduate lawyers in any system is regulated by this law, but the number of training positions is limited, and the number of lawyers is large and thus generated by the army of dissatisfaction, and according to the rhetoric Pernar Zekanovic they go outside, and the two do not understand the geneaze of problems and the geneaze of going to Ireland will not be lawyers, but will be waiters or the like, everything they do not want to do in Croatia. Please, do you have information which is the difference between the number of places of practice and the interested graduate lawyers for those places?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125802	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125803	Anyway, I don't have the exact information at this point, but there's a difference, of course, and we can't actually take care of everyone who's unemployed for a clear reason because when we take a man into the system either now as a trainee, either as a person where we train her professionally to pass a judicial exam, we actually provide education. We also appoint a mentor who takes care of her, he must pass all departments in courts and civil and criminal and at the Trade Court ić, and at the Administrative Court ić, so he must see the whole system working, someone has to take care of him. If we were to put the judges and all the staff into function, we wouldn't actually have the staff to function normally. Every year we plan on how much we can take, and here we're going to have a significant increase because next to the trainees we're going to have this second category.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125804	Thank you very much, I am opening the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists by the respected representative of Nikola Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125805	Thank you, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, since MOST has conducted a comprehensive reform of the judiciary that will not come here for discussion in the Croatian Parliament I will do a comparative analysis of the meaning of this Law on trainees in the judicial bodies presented here by the minister, meaning the MOST's Proposal for Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Examining. So, in the draft Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination in the text of the draft law, MOST regulated this matter in two laws, the Proposed Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the Proposed Law on the judicial examination. In the draft law, a plan for the reception of trainees for the calendar year in Article 4(2) shall be developed in the short, medium-term period of two years and a long-term plan for 4 years. In Article 5 of the draft law, the trainee may be a person who fulfils the following conditions: Croatian citizenship, health skills for work and completed law study, while our proposal defines that a trainee may be admitted to a person who has completed a law study, a university graduate or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate, for foreign nationals or persons without citizenship, the prior approval of the central body of the state administration responsible for official relations, the MOST proposal for foreign nationals requires that he actively rule in Croatian with a C2 level according to the common European reference framework for languages. According to the draft law, Article 9 of the exercise practice lasts for 2 years, and during the exercise practice, the trainee is obliged to carry out at least 4 months in the civil first-degree procedure, 2 months in the criminal first-degree department, 1 month in the second-degree civil and second-degree criminal department, 1 month in the Commercial and Administrative Court, and 2 months in the State Attorney's Office, while MOST's draft law on trainees in judicial bodies in Article 3 determines that the exercise practice takes 30 months and the schedule is different by departments. In the MOST proposal before the appointment of members and alternate members of the examination committee, the Minister of Justice will ask the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Attorney General, the President of the Croatian Bar Association, the President of the Croatian Public Note Chamber and the Head of the other relevant bodies for a reasoned proposal and shall make a public invitation to show interest to all interested candidates who meet the conditions. The president of the examination committee is the president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and the vice president is the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The conditions for a judicial examination are different, this proposal requires 18 months of practice in judicial bodies, a person for a completed examination of the law which, which conducts legal affairs in the bodies of the state administration, bodies of local and regional self-government and legal persons for at least 2 years of legal conduct and professional practice in a court of at least 12 months or after at least 3 years of legal proceedings and for all candidates of professional education to pass a written part of the judicial examination. MOST's proposal means what we've referred to in the procedure, and what doesn't come here for discussion requires more practice practice. In MOST's proposal, the conditions for passing a judicial examination shall be met by a person with a graduated or integrated pre-graduate and graduate university law study after 2 years of practice in judicial bodies in accordance with a special law, after 2 years of training practice in law and public records, after 4 years of law enforcement in state administration bodies, local and regional self-government and other public bodies and other legal entities or work in scientific, teaching and co-operational professions in legal cases at law schools. After 2 years of carrying out legal transactions in state administration bodies, local and regional self-government and other public authorities and other legal persons or work in scientific, educational and co-operational professions in legal cases in which the time in court during a year spends at least 720 hours in professional practice. So in the MOST proposal, after meeting the conditions for passing a judicial examination, the trainee exercises the right to use 2 months. Training practices for the preparation of the judicial examination, Article 16. In Article 27 of this proposed draft law, the written part of the judicial examination consists of the production of 3 written tasks in the field of civil, criminal and administrative law based on a specific case file. In our proposal for a law, the written part consists of making two written tasks. The MOST's proposal for a law stipulates that an oral examination against each candidate may take up to 2 hours, Article 23. The maximum number of points on the oral and written exams according to the government's draft is 100 points. A candidate who has achieved less than 56 points of justice from a written and oral act has not passed the exam. The MOST proposal, after completion of the entire examination, determines the final score whether or not it has passed, and the candidate who shows special knowledge on the written and oral part of the examination, will be assessed with a special commendation, Article 25. The draft law stipulates that a candidate who does not pass the exam may re-access to the exam after the expiry of the period of 4 months. as from the date of deposit and to the candidate who is re-accessing to the course of the judicial examination, the results obtained in the written part of the examination shall be recognised. In the MOST proposal, the candidate who passed the exam after the deadline of 6 months. From the day of the exam, the test may be re-accessed. Also, in the case of repeated re-access to the judicial exam, the judicial exam may be subject to three times after which the candidate permanently loses his right to take place. According to the draft law presented here by the minister, the exercise in a judicial body that has reached at least 70 points, the exercise practice is extended by 6 months. after the expiry of the period of time for which it is subject to the extension practice, it shall be deployed without a public tender or an internal advertisement for the vacancy of advisers in that judicial body. MOST's proposal envisioned this possibility for candidates with a special commendation, so here I did a brief comparative analysis of the meaning of this proposal presented here by the minister and what we have referred to and the procedure means in our full reform of the judiciary that is waiting for it to come on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125806	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125807	Dear Vice President, thank you. Dear Ministers with associate, ladies and gentlemen, dear representatives. Here is the final proposal of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam. Here after a long time she felt the need to change this law, to make it a little easier for the system to go to the judicial exam, but also for the practice system in Croatia. The minister himself told us in the introduction some things that changed between these first two readings so that I would comment and pass those parts. We know that the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam was passed in 2008, this law normally regulates the conditions for the admission of trainees to judicial bodies but what the minister mentioned also means the way we lay down, the evaluation of the judicial examination and all the conditions that the trainees in the attorney's office and the public records must do to the judiciary. After a little over 8 years of application of this law, we have seen in practice certain shortcomings that should definitely be changed but also the comments of the Association of Lawyers as well as other colleagues of young lawyers and stakeholders, which should all be changed and changed, so it is good that it is included in this final draft law. As regards the exercise of law enforcement, it was necessary in this final proposal of the law to enable only exercise in administrative courts, which is in that draft law, i.e. In the law when it was passed, no mandatory psychological testing of the candidates themselves was introduced at that time, it was regulated by this final draft of the law. What is good, what should be pointed out is the introduction of professional training itself in order to obtain the conditions for accessing this 18-month exam, rather known as volunteering for unemployed lawyers who will be able to take the judicial exam after that professional training. Prescribing the same compulsory prior vocational education of all candidates who approach a judicial examination at the Judicial Academy other than trainees in judicial bodies and prescribing alternative conditions for accessing this exam for lawyers who are employed outside judicial authorities, lawyers and public records means... at least 2 years of legal work and other conditions necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a good thing that the minister pointed out, I didn't see between these two first readings that there would still be an opportunity to accept and fit that internship when someone was a lawyer, then moved to work in the state. to the public service or to be transferred to the university, he will be assigned this internship which he performed in the exercise until the very end of the course so that after a certain number of months he can take his own judicial exam. As far as this final proposal for a law relating to the work of the examination committee and the most important part, and most interesting to our colleagues, which is to go to the legal exam and to pass it, the strengthening and representation and importance of EU law has been introduced. I'm glad that's been combined in these five cases, if it hadn't increased the scope of the judicial exam itself, which would have definitely made it more difficult, it would have extended the time duration of the exam itself, which would have extended the stress itself of the candidates and everything that comes out of it. We must point out once again that, in the public debate itself, and before it, in cooperation with the ministry, the minister, and with the service that produced this bill, the associations of law enforcement officers who gave their proposals in writing and before the public debate itself were involved, but also in the public debate itself. A lot has been implemented and recorded in the final bill itself, something has not, but the ministry has given a clear explanation why it did not. But I think it's definitely a good practice for the future to be handled and how other stakeholders should be involved in making any other proposal of the law tomorrow. He would have mentioned two more things, and here we had a series of respondents on the court exam a few weeks ago, some of them passed normally, and some of them didn't, we know about statistics ourselves, but we also know how stressful the judicial exam itself is, how difficult that exam is, the minister emphasized it himself. The colleagues who took him know how long the preparations themselves are for the same and how difficult it is in the end, so there are also certain colleagues, some who are at the moment and have passed, and some who are not. They have also made several suggestions as far as possible in the future when amendments and additions to this law are being made, i.e. The debate should be opened and there may be some changes or at least a debate whether it was good, and this is exclusively related to the oral part of the judicial examination itself. As for this written part of the judicial exam, where the verdicts are written, before the oral part is released, which is also good that it will be valid in case of non-compliance on the oral part of the exam, means that this written part will repeat itself and that the commission will accept candidates and not pass one group of cases, which will be able to continue to go to the oral exam, these are definitely quality changes, which will get good results and reduce the efforts of the candidates themselves and make it easier to take the written part of the judicial exam, but as far as the oral part itself is concerned, the written so is not problematic, the writing of the verdict itself, although certain colleagues have opened the debate and considered that it may not be necessary in that way to carry out the written part of the examination of the judicial, the case itself, because only 5% of the colleagues ends in the judiciary, so that the writing of the verdict itself, a few who later will use in their practice, if they are lawyers or to the public record or in any other body. So that written part, perhaps it could be transformed not only to write judgments itself but to put more emphasis on interpreting the verdict or on the very parts of the verdict that would be interesting to each part of the categories of lawyers themselves. As for the oral part of the exam consisting of 5 categories of subjects, there were some possible minor anomalies, but several of some proposals by colleagues to introduce and to limit the subjectivity of the subjects themselves, because it happened in many cases that.../incomprehensible/... or a certain group of subjects had over 80% correct answers, and yet did not pass that group of subjects, which is a little illogical, although the law prescribed, but that subjectivity and method of assessing the subjects themselves would be questioned and it might be given to a purely debate that this oral part of the subject might be converted into a kind of written example, a written part of the examination, that it would be purely deviated from that some possible ilability or purely to avoid the subjectivity of the interrogators themselves, to create certain variables, algorithms to collect a certain amount of questions that would be raised, which would lead to simple examinations, and, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, the case, to the case, to the case, in fact, to a reasonablely, to the duration, to the case of the subjects, and in which, the case, and in fact, the case, the case, and in case, which, the subjects, the subjects, and in case, and in which the case, the subjects, the subjects, and in which, the subjectss, and in case, the case, the subjectss, the subjectss, the case, and in case, and in case, were, and in fact, the case, the case, the case, the subject, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, and in case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case of the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the subjects of the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, of the case, of the case, of the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case of the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case, the case As far as this proposal is concerned, the final bill, the two things colleagues have referred to, which is these four months, I think it's art. 35th, which is the four months after which a retrial can be re-entered. There they also noted in the association that the deadline should be reduced to a month because 4 months, certain colleagues who had already been on the stand for the judicial exam after their work, not to wait so long that they were not waiting for a full 4 months, but to be allowed out after a month while the knowledge was relatively fresh, to repeat the material a little bit, and not to delay that additional stress that produced the exit, I went to the judicial exam. In this final draft of the law, stay for 4 months, but it is important that we open the debate and maybe in future changes and see if we can change that too. And here's an important note regarding these objections to the accounting of internships, which the minister confirmed, that they would still be accounted for and accepted from colleagues who were in the training at the lawyer's office, then transferred to certain public services or to colleges. All in all, we can definitely admit that this final bill is of great quality, that since 9 months, I think already some colleagues, who are here two weeks ago, unfortunately and the judicial exam is on fire, I think they will be jealous, which under these conditions, will not be able to go to the judicial exam, but, behold, colleagues of 1.9. I believe that they will be given both a better quality and a little more stressful and a little more stressful exit, on this very difficult exam, so that ultimately the HDZ Club will accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125808	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Orsat Milenic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, my colleagues from the Ministry, I welcome you all very much. I'm going to be talking in two parts, one part about the trainees themselves, and the other about the judicial exam. As far as the trainees are concerned, I'm going to ask the first question, give us the trainees at all, what we're going to need the trainees and how much space there is in the courts and the state's attorneys to hire these people tomorrow. We are a country that is second in Europe to the number of judges, per capita, and that is a fact that does not change, and it will take a very long time, because judges work until 70 years under the Constitution, so by the Constitution they work up to 70 years. It will not change and the employment space cannot be, only if we do not want to become the first country in Europe by the number of judges, by the number of residents and that is so. So, I'm telling you purely strategically, whether we need employees in the courts that we're actually preparing for jobs that probably won't exist in due course because they can't be opened, they have nowhere to go. We need to reduce the number of people, not increase it. Same in the State's Attorney's Office. If you look at statistics, not ours, Europeans, we're also at the top. So by the number of state lawyers we're at the top of Europe by the number of inhabitants. And now in that situation, we're sending a message to people, so go, get a job as a trainee, and where you're going to work, and I'm saying, are we the country that has to drive everyone to the state administration, because I think it's one across the state administration and nowhere else? So it's a purely strategic thing, about her you should think, she's, she hasn't shown up today, she exists for a long time and she'll last and I'll say this as a thought. So, in this part of the law, which predicts paid training, I'm absolutely against it. As for this part that brings back the volunteering, I absolutely welcome it, because it's something where it thinks it can invest its valuables, to get ready for the judicial authorities, why not give it a chance, it's great stuff and it's something that I'm sorry it hasn't come back before and it's a very good thing. Here, I'll say by my example, I volunteered my time 25 years ago and that's a good thing. So, I'm saying, but strategically, we're saying you're going to be trainees, then we say if you pass 70% of the court, you're going to get an advisory post, okay, we're sending the wrong message. Let's step back, get a job where you can, go through practice, be on the market when the place is free, everyone can compete for it, who's the best will be the example and that's the message we should be sending. Having the best shot from the market, not the bar we've pushed into an institution, and then he's 22, 23, up to 70 is on the same page. It's just something that's no longer a trend anywhere, it changes. He can't be so fixed in any occupation, and it's my fault. I'm saying that's what we have, you don't change it with this law, so we don't criticise it so much, but I'm saying, through strategic long-term, what we're going to pay for now, look at it, I've been looking at success statistics for a while. So you've got court or state's attorneys, they don't have any better averages on a judicial exam than, say, law enforcement. Lawyers work for wages as much as they do, as they get to learn, and that's it. And here we have people who only learn. So we who state pay them just to study, just to get ready for the judicial and have no better results. So I'm talking about something that's a long-term question, is it worth it to us as a society? Volunteering that, opening the market, means, when a seat opens up for a court counselor, whoever will call. Who's best to accept, when you open a place in perspective for judges etc. It's best to take it. So, I'm saying, we're sending a message to young people, go, go to practice, and you're closing up the opportunity, the place for judges and the state's attorneys are gone, there's gonna be very few of them. It will be on the dropper and so for the next very many years. So that's something, I'm sure you'll fill out the plans, but I'm afraid that even in your plans there will be so few places, that the question at all... I don't see where these people will be employed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the judicial one, first I welcome this partial passage thing, because this, as it is now, really doesn't make sense, that you're actually preparing for a very complex matter, you don't satisfy something, and then you go all the way from the beginning. It's a waste of time, a waste of money, if you like, energy, Elena, everything. However, I think in the long run, if we want to do something with a judicial one, and now I'm going to do one cartoon, you and the trainees, we're going to reintroduce the exam. So, I don't see what the trainees would have laid down, after they finished law school, in which they would meet the written exam. So they have grades from all the cases, they haven't been doing anything practical in their lives. So, by what, what? In my opinion, if we already have them, so let's just take it by the grades because I say, I don't know, what you're going to put in their exam to be different from what they passed in college. Nothing in life has been done by other people, so you can't ask them anything practical. People came from college, they got grades, it would be logical to get a grade-based job because I'm saying, and I'm just curious about what they're going to write in that written exam, there's nothing that matters, so it's just too much for me. If you're going, take them by grades, possibly some kind of psychological profile, as well as any employment, with very few points, but let people know, in college, if I'm good, I have to buy grades, so someone's going to take me in. As soon as we introduce practice, wherever we have an additional exam, it's unfortunately a fertile ground for change or for manipulation, etc., and I'm saying, here I don't see what the contents were, but well, if you think there's something, we'll see, but I'm saying, I don't know. I'm on my way to justice now. And my colleague, he took me part, and that's where I agree with you. A much more verbal country than we do, I say, more verbally in court proceedings, such as, for example, here, a colleague mentioned America. They only have a written judicial exam, exclusively written, and you know how? ABC, do you know who's fixing this? Computer. No commission and no subjective love I love you, I don't love you, you get more, you get less. And wherever you look, wherever society is a little more advanced, it goes a little further, it introduces automated exams. If Americans who are, I say, much more verbally, they have much less submissions than we do in our court appearances, and they're more amoral, etc. And they don't need to question them orally, but they have automated it, you lay it down and get home the envelope is passed or not, you lay under the code, the questions are being dragged, so the computer pulls them in, everyone lays them at the same time, you, you can do it on the computer under the code, the computer corrects them, and you get home the way you went. And we don't have this element that appears too often, I know this one, I don't know this one, I know this one, I don't know this one or, I don't say that he's real, but there's an impression. Any candidate who doesn't go well with him is someone who's responsible for this, someone for it. What would be my proposal as a transitional solution, to put a system of written exams, we've made advances for it, so we've been introduced to write on the computer, so the next step was somehow imagined. So, the Commission puts together, it doesn't matter, 10,000 questions, when the candidates come to the exam, they have computers, their computer pulls them out for the day of the question, they solve them, they pass or fall. If they've fallen, I can't go on my lips, if they've passed, then they're going to the Commission that's actually giving them a grade. But you've thus eliminated anyone who doesn't deserve to go further and you've taken one big step towards objectifying exams and no one can tell you that someone who didn't know, who this is, who that is. So, look at it, wherever society is more successful, and in the judicial, but also in colleges and everywhere, that's how it's done. So you give an objective passage YES, NO, afterwards the Commission can agree, because you need employment points further, etc. And that's something that would show one transparency and that's exactly where you're in the vault, so we'd say, here, we in the judiciary did it first, we're going towards objectiveization. I know that the Commission would resent this very much, as they resented me when I talked to them about it. Because, of course, you're losing some of the work. But it's something that would send a message to people, if you're good, you'll pass, if you're not, and it's not decided by a man who loves you, doesn't love you, knows you, knows you, doesn't know you, but decides objectively the same thing to everyone. So that would be a good step, if he can't be now, you should see what technical possibilities are, I think there are, but that's something where you would send a strong message, it's also transparent, it's a fight against any corruption, nepotism, anything and it's fair and you're sending a message of modernization to the judiciary. Here, that would be my best-intentioned suggestion. Of course, everything you've done here is good and I support it, but what I've said, we need the trainees, the very two, the paid trainees, because I say we pay people, I don't see why, better to use it on what's right now, the judges' salaries or something, to go up there, and then to motivate people to be inside, that's the first. Volunteering yes, and as far as judicial exams are concerned, objectification wherever it is possible to do so. And please, once again, of course, think about it, if you're already receiving the trainees, do you need that written exam, what do you need it for? You're just gonna burden yourself and the Ministry with something you can do based on your grades, the way you were in college, we're gonna take you in or we're not, and this is how you're gonna be again, this one you are, this one you're not, etc. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125810	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, we will speak to the esteemed Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125811	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you, first of all, for the debate, there were three people who discussed it, but we had an interesting debate. Here, if I may say a few words, the MOST has put out here, in fact, certain features and certain characteristics of their proposal that need to be put on the agenda. I'd say there's some little difference between what's here on the table and what's theirs. It's essential that they predict the duration of the training period for 30 months, and we 24, which I don't think is necessary to extend. It's just, after 24 months, there's a new circle, new people, so we kind of have better capacity, and what you'd say is faster it's turning. On the proposal of the Most, there would be no evaluations but would only have been passed or not passed with praise or without commendation. We think it's more objective to have points and that they can better show the quality as it's done. Also, a whole series of technical provisions is in this law by MOST that we will regulate the necessary rules so I don't think there's any need to burden the law with that. And what's important is that we, we have this category of volunteers. Here I think it's a big step and that actually there's these many young people who have finished college and don't really know what they're going to do with themselves, we're giving them the opportunity to go through one more education and training to go to a judicial exam as soon as possible, and then there's a better chance on the market. My colleague Milenić had a very interesting exhibition that he had so much strategically conceived, in fact whether or not we need this institute at all, whether or not we have it going to a complete modernisation and automation of it. I can't tell you at this point what's actually going to happen to these technological developments, these technological possibilities, what's going to happen in 10, 20 years, especially in the segment of the development of artificial intelligence. Maybe we'll have in some parts instead of judges we'll have computers that actually have some standard disputes to solve. It's actually uncertain how it's going to stay in the future. This is one of our institutes of practice that lasts long, long years. And at this point, we have strategically decided to leave it, to modernise it a little bit, and on the other hand, we think that it is at the moment that we are at our needs. And our primary modernization is actually this fundamental part of justice. I'm really struggling to actually get us to live and start living in justice without paper. That means we establish electronic communication between lawyers, courts, notebooks, witches. This will certainly lead to the speed of the procedure and we have not yet achieved it. In the last year, we made the conditions for trade courts to function that way. And this year we're going to spread it to all the other courts. But that's my right, full functionality will get, I expect only in some next period and then it'll get speed. You have rightly said here that we are and this is a mathematically accurate and verifiable country with the most judges and that is true, but we also have many cases that continue to come to courts, truth, every year that number falls, but the truth is falling and the number of judges. In the last 2 to 3 years, we with 1800 judges are somewhere at 1700. So it's falling slowly, it's not filling up, and we're kind of taking it. And you asked a question, actually, which is what we're even interested in having an intern. The interest is, we practice as you can see from these criteria let go of what's best. So 50% is based on entry, 50% is based on the grade you earned at college, the next 40% on this written part where we still want to check in a different way, dimensioning issues than they were at college, and 10% on the overall score depends on that conversation about motives and on the goals. And we're going through that training institute really doing what's best. We are not the primary judges in the future only, we should have strong actually advisers where I would be very happy to raise wages too, because as you know in fact and in a decent term we have raised up I think that censorship where they can perform procedural actions in procedures and they have proved very useful. And on the other hand, I see the future judiciary that every judge has a small team of advisors around them, and we just need to reach out clearly to the economic power that we can get to it. So it's not just that from the ranks of the trainees we're going to recruit the judges but also these other categories. Our interest as a society is actually to create such good lawyers who will see everything so wherever they work, wherever they work. Wherever they are, wherever they're doing well, they're preventing disputes. If they're good lawyers in banks, if they're good lawyers anywhere they're actually going to do a good job and we're going to have a regulated system, we're going to have fewer disputes. So this is the moment in my head where the counselors really still have to build and when we actually have to strengthen that advisory base. Unfortunately, wages are what they are, generally in the judiciary they are not paid at some kind of envious level. We have sent the Law on Amendments and Paid Supplements to the judiciary, and that is why we want to send a message that we want as much quality justice as possible and that, in fact, these salaries are in some way both with responsibility and with the expertise of the job. So we'll see what the future brings. However, in the frameworks where we are now, I think this law brings positive changes and in the way we lay down, we relaxed it in some way and still left some dimension because this judicial exam is really important to us in our profession, and it is the basis for anything else that man could do further. The judicial exam is, it causes respect everywhere when a man says he passed, that he has passed a judicial exam, it is indeed an additional quality with the fact that I do not say those people who do not have a court and work in some institutions where there is no need for a judicial exam and of course they have very large responsibilities and do complex jobs. This, we can discuss how to structure this exam, whether there should be more oral part at all, whether it fills with tests and all of those possibilities. I, too, am a supporter here to yet this verbal part be because this one in the judiciary and how we communicate and judge in fact, tomorrow when someone becomes a judge he has to conduct the debate, he has to manage the process and in fact these are the important things that this one has to leave for me. So here's my thanks again to everyone who discussed this one even though it wasn't a large number, but it was interesting, I suggest we pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125812	Thank you very much, we have two replicas of the first respected representative of Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125813	Thank you very much, so as far as technology is concerned, of course we don't know where we're going to be, but then it's good to look at those who are ahead of us, and what these things already have. So, if the more developed countries than us have exclusively written testing and it proves to be successful and it's harder to pass justice than with us then I don't see why we would insist on still being verbal and actually staying bewitched. Through this you would send a message to the entire judiciary, to modernise yourself, to move on. Yeah, you wanna do that, you're gonna have a written exam, you passed, you didn't pass. There is no man, wherever you move a man, you move the possibility of such or such an influence with your will, without your will, etc. As for the salary and the paid trainees, so you use it to raise your salary to the counselors and then you actually did something. This is how you're going to pay the trainees to actually had still had low-paid advisors [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's not good, here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125814	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125815	As for objectivity and the thesis that this with computers, computers would be more objective, and that's probably how it stands, but that would go in this concept that you stand for, in this concept of the verbal part of the exam absolutely this must remain this way as it is set up. I don't think there's any questionable objectivity here anymore on that exam, so before the written shops are written under the cap, so no one knows that you wrote, so they evaluate you, when you respond to the oral part of all five interrogators follow you, I listen to who's being questioned, I listen to both criminally and all that, so it's hard to happen what someone said you know 80% and you get a negative grade from that part. So I think even that objectivity raised to this level, I don't think there are any examples where someone can say I knew very well, so they knocked me down, that's just not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125816	Here is the next replica, the respected representative of Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I was actually going to pollinate with Mr. Milenic, but I can't, so I'll tell you Mr. Minister, given the fullness of the courts I'm interested in and the need to hire court interns is getting smaller, or.../incomprehensible/... that was a little before. I'm interested in what the state is thinking about hiring these interns of law practitioners who unfortunately know that in Zagreb, for example in Zagreb they are offered a salary of 2.000 kuna and without registration. That's the problem, so that's why it's good that we have such trainees who, if they can't get an adequate salary, can at least get some pay, so they're getting ready for this, for this judicial exam, and after the judicial exam, they're still treated differently on the market than interns who didn't, who didn't pass the trainee's exam, and lawyers are for no application. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125818	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125819	Thank you, Your Honor, by this law we are now increasing the number of those who will be able to come to the courts and who will be able to prepare for the judicial exam. I'm already at the beginning saying, being an apprentice in court is one privilege, it's one privilege to come and explain to you, that you have your mentor, that you're going through everything, everything that a court does, from a civil, criminal department, land-booked, so you all know how it works in practice. We in this way, in addition to these paid ones who are not some particular fee we introduce and this institute means people who are trained professionally in our courts without compensation but we pay them pension, health, we pay them travel and travel expenses and they come to an opportunity in this way as soon as possible to the judicial exam. Because when someone has passed a judicial exam, they have greater opportunities on the market. So, let's spread this law to the base of people who are getting ready to work tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125820	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125821	Final proposal of the Law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial examination, second reading, No. 396, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 for, 11 abstentions and 5 against the passed Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125822	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the participation of civilian experts in international missions and operations, second reading, P.Z. Number 389 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Andreja Metelko Zgombic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125823	I thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, allow me to present to you the Final Proposal of the Law on the participation of civilian experts in international missions and operations. With our active participation in international missions and operations, both the UN, the EU, NATO, the OSCE, we confirm our credibility and reputation, we strengthen our strategic partnerships with our allies, we promote our visibility, our universal credibility, and thus strengthen our international legal position and this proposal, the final bill that creates a great, quality legal framework for such action. During our first reading, we recalled that we had participated in the OSCE in the 1990s, but first a stronger formal presence of the Republic of Croatia in the mission is recorded in 2005, when we had a first military presence and then a civil presence in Afghanistan. In recent years, the International Community has made it even more important to give the civilian dimension of participation in International Missions and Operations, and it is increasingly a tendency that the Civilian Mission does not come after military operations or military missions, but accepts a comprehensive approach where the Military and Civilian Mission acts in parallel, complement each other and thus achieves a certain synergy, and for this very reason the mandates of the International missions and operations are increasingly complex and complex and require very high-quality personnel to be referred to in these missions. This is exactly the kind of multidimensional approach that requires personnel who are professionally in the field of peace-building, disarmament, demobilisation, reintegration of armed forces, reforms, the security sector, electoral legislation, therefore, conduct elections. Therefore, it requires a large number of experts in the civil area who can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of these missions, and therefore, this Law creates one framework in which all Croatian citizens, both from public and state administration, the judiciary and from the private sector, the academic community, civil society, could apply and participate in such missions. Through the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2017, HS also confirmed and accepted such a single approach, believing that a large spectrum of Croatian societies should be found ways and opportunities for participation in such missions. It's one good way to present and use the knowledge and experience we've gained so far. This Law particularly confirms the importance of women's participation and recognises the importance of women in the overall, all efforts and efforts to ensure the safety and stability of society. We have a special article to refer to. The law will also improve cross-resorship cooperation in this area, determines how the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia, priorities and interests of the Republic of Croatia will be recognised when involved in a specific civilian mission, the decision shall be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the relevant Resor, and with the previous consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When it comes to reporting on such activities, during the debate at first reading, we received a proposal that it would be good, since once a year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will report to the Government, so that it would be good to find a mechanism which, by then, the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would report to HS, but without any additional specific administrative efforts. Therefore, as part of its regular activities before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, respecting the Committee's work, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also include a report on the participation of civilian experts in International Missions and Operations. Mr. President of HS allow me just a moment to look back on our participation in Afghanistan. This was also the case during our first reading of this Law, there the Republic of Croatia had a civil engagement that had largely complemented our military presence and police presence there, which was the basis for the development and development policies and development cooperation that we were sending to Afghanistan. We see, therefore, that we can achieve great synergy and we believe that this law will enable us to do so in the future. The solutions we have put into this Act are the result of the experiences that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has, and the whole government has in its work on civilian missions so far, and this Law will, in a systematic, transparent way, enable all parts of Croatian society to participate in these civilian missions. We propose that this High House accept this Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125824	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state, here's the Government now giving us the final proposal of the Law on the participation of civilian experts in International Missions and Operations, and I'm glad that in this final proposal, that there were both those notes and those suggestions, those proposals which are parliamentary representatives, and also the club of HDZ representatives that we made at the first reading. In addition, more or less of the changes in this final proposal concern the proposals of the Committee on Legislatives, and they have been included to a greater or almost full extent. For our citizens, it may be important to point out once again that, apart from, of course, our military and police officers, we also have civilian experts in various international missions and operations under the auspices of either the UN or the OSCE or the EU or NATO alliances. So these are mainly civilian experts dealing with humanitarian aid or development cooperation or the same complex diplomatic tasks after the conflict, such as maintaining peace or Stabilisation projects of a particular area. These civilian experts, as the secretary of state said earlier, have been involved in various operations since the 1990s, which has been intensified, it has been regulated legally. However, there have been some changes, especially with the new Law on Defence and the new Civil Protection System Act, and therefore the position of civilian experts in operations should now be regulated. This seems to this Law and I think it is extremely good that this central role is also given to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs in terms of coordination and, of course, reporting. I am also so pleased to have respected this proposal that, except that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs will report once a year to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to submit a report to the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy, so much will the HDZ Club support this Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125826	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate that was attended by the esteemed representative, Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125827	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we have heard from the secretary of state all about this bill, which is as positive as it is, also spoke fellow Stier on behalf of the HDZ Club. I'll just give a few ideas how to further improve the work in this segment. We will also have to do one piece of information from the Croatian Government on how many active civil experts we have in NATO, OSCE, EU and UN, of course, and I think that we should think about using one word that is not attractive, but has been used so far, some kind of outsorbing facility, one that would be funded from the state budget, which would be in charge of this particular part, means, for the presence of Croatian civilian experts in the International Peace Missions, a kind of centre for the International Mission, a centre that would receive financial support from the Croatian state budget, that should be considered. In addition, it is very important that we also make one information for the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian government about how many Croatian civilian experts are present in international organisations, how many people we have in EU bodies, NATO, the OSCE and elsewhere. So how much our civilian experts, present in international organisations, that's important for our visibility, that's important for so-called. Soft power RH. So we also use the presence of our people in international organisations, in order not only to contribute to the functioning of this system and international peace, but also to extend our Croatian view in these very important spheres. So, the idea of considering a centre whose founder might have been, besides the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and another institution in the Republic of Croatia, which would be financing from and from the Croatian state budget, could have been much better worked, and one information about how much we have our experts, our civilian experts in international organisations, and then run a systematic policy in the presence of Croatia in international organisations of the EU, NATO, the OSCE, etc. But this is the first step in the right direction, I thank and welcome this bill once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125828	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kovac, I agree with you in this second part, especially because I am interested in that, and that is how many Croatian experts are present in these international institutions. So, separated from the EU, and all other Councils of Europe, therefore, all other institutions, i.e., that we as a committee for foreign affairs first, then perhaps... Parliament, we see how much Croatia consumes its rights, because membership in the EU, membership in the Council of Europe and other institutions, we have the right, our experts have the right to compete for those places, and also, as we use it as a state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm not talking about anything illegal, of course, but purely, whether we consume all the rights we have. In addition, it would be interesting to see how many Croatian citizens have passed an epso, so that they can compete in some positions. So this is certainly one of the criteria to be guided, and let's see how successful we really are, if we are talking about the EPSU on the consumption of our rights as a member of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125830	Thank you. Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125831	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125832	The next replica is Honored Representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125833	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, we're the '90s. as the state being the recipient of international assistance, I will remind you, only she... They stayed best in memory of all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, since then, this has changed quite a bit, and the Republic of Croatia has today, given how small we are, one of the countries that has contributed quite a bit of peace in the world, and among other things our soldiers today, have participated in 10 peacekeeping missions, under the auspices of the United Nations of the EU, NATO, and since '90. So when our first soldiers were moving into these international peacekeeping missions, it was about 8055 of our soldiers, officers, through the pensions of the mission. Of course it's... the countries themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125834	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Representative Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125835	Thank you very much, dear colleague Strick, you have pointed out with the right that we have been security recipients, today we are security providers and, of course, it is our interest to contribute to world peace, but also, when we talk about providing security in the world and sending our experts to international peace missions, international organisations, we should also take care of our specific national interests and... there send people or animate them to be present, where Croatia,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] really help and of which Croatia of course benefits, there is still plenty of room for improvement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125836	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected secretary of state, Andrea Metelko Zgombic, will say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125837	I thank you for these comments. Certainly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will, through regular reporting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, present a broader demonstration of the activities of Croatian civilian experts in missions, perhaps only as information at this time, in 2018 32 civilian experts participated in various missions, of which 3 police officers, 12 observers in the framework of a special observation mission in Ukraine and we had 17 observers within the framework of the EU election monitors, and the OSCE. We watched the election in 9 countries, El Salvador, Sierra Leone, Paraguay, Tunisia, Lebanon and we had 2 observers in the BIH elections. This year, therefore, in 2019 we currently have 15 civilian experts abroad, of which 3 police officers and 12 observers on the OSCE mission in Ukraine. We also have three more Croatian observers watching the El Salvador and Nigeria elections. So, the activities are charred, rich, covering the whole world and our reporting within the board, there will be an opportunity to regularly report this High House on the implementation of this law and our activities in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125838	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met or something later today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125839	Final proposal of the Law on the participation of civil experts in international missions and operations, second reading, P.Z. No. 389 The motion is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed and I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find that most votes, 115 for and 1 abstentions and 3 votes against the passed Law on the participation of civilian experts in international missions and operations. The financial agency’s annual report for 2017 is the applicant’s financial agency. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. An annual report on FINA’s business for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please vote. I find that most of the votes, 104 for, 2 abstentions and 15 against, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125842	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Art. No. 105, 1st, 1st and 1st. 273. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS proposes a Decision on the discharge of the members of the HS Tourism Committee, Mr Ivan Arambasic. It is proposed by the Health and Social Policy Committee of HS as member of Krešimir Luetic. And the third for a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of corruption control, Dario Omljenovic is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125843	Okay, thank you. I'm opening a debate on these proposals. I'm closing the debate, if you agree, we can vote unitedly on all three points. If there are no objections, then I'll vote, all three decisions. I find that most votes, 115 votes and 15 votes, and 5 abstentions have been abstentions that have been made as proposed by the board. Thank you very much. I announce that after we hear more clubs in free speech, we end today's week. We continue on Wednesday, January 30th at 9.30 A proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants, first reading. I would now ask anyone who no longer wants to participate in leaving the assembly, and then free speech. We now move to the point of choice, appointment and resolution, please the chairman of the Committee for the Selection of Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Antu Sanader, to explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125845	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a respected colleague and colleague, on the basis of Article 105(1) subst. Article 1 and Article 3 In 161st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st. The Rules of Procedures of the HS, the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS shall submit a proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS Davor Milicevic, and a proposal for a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS shall be made. Tomislav Sokol. This is it, isn't it? An HS Justice Committee member, Davor Milicevic, is also proposed and Ante Bacic, is proposed as a member of the Justice Committee. [[President: Yes, yes, all of you, go ahead.]] The discharge of members of the Committee on Labour and Pensions and the social partnership of HS is proposed. Tomislav Sokola, a member of the Committee on Labour and Pensions and Social Partnership, is proposed by Vlatko Kopić. The HS Tourism Committee is proposed for Mr Dragan Magaš's member.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125846	I'm opening a debate on all the proposals. If there are no interested parties, I am closing the debate and I am voting on the motion for decisions proposed by the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, please vote. I find it unanimous with 77 votes that decisions were made as proposed by the Committee. This brings us to the end of the vote, the next vote will be on March 1st, Friday, when the last day of this session is. Now, now we're going to take a break by 1 hour, then there's going to be a club statement, a free speech, and then it's going to continue with the agenda as planned for today. Thank you very much. Interrupt session at 12.46 p.m. And here we have reached the last one, and that is the choice and appointments and the resolution, please the chairman of the Board for the selection of appointments and administrative affairs, Antu Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125848	Thank you. On the basis of Art. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Selection and Design, proposes a decision on the discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly, and is proposed to be a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly Drazen Milinković. [[President: Yes, yes, I suggest you propose everything together, so if there are objections, we will vote rejected, if not, then we will all be together, go ahead.]] It is proposed that members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Giovanni Sponna, be released, but that Emil Daus be proposed as a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Croatian Banking Supervisory Board for Reconstruction and Development Boris Lalovac is proposed, and Sasa Djujic is proposed as a member of the Croatian Bank's Supervisory Board for Reconstruction and Development. For members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb, academics Željko Reiner and Josko Klisović are proposed. ... The term of office of members of the University Council, University of Zagreb... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the decision to appoint the University Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125849	I thank you for opening the debate. If no one is answering, I am closing the debate and I propose that we vote on all decisions together, so I am voting the decisions, i.e. the motion for a decision by the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs, please vote. I find that with 80 votes for, therefore, unanimously, a decision has been made as proposed, a decision has been made as proposed by the board. Now after the vote, we have a free speech, however, we do not have present gentlemen from SDP, Grbin and Jovanovic, nor from the Bridge of Mr. Grmoy, so we have come to an end today's work, see you on Wednesday, next week, and I wish you a pleasant weekend. SESSEL DISCONTINUED 23.03.2019. At 12:37 p.m. And let's go to the final point of choice, appointment and resolution, please the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoint and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125851	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee for the Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament shall submit a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament Dragica Vranjš is proposed, and Ante Bačić and Branka Juričev-Martinchev are proposed for members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 5 April 2019, a member of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Marijan Kustic for the termination of the parliamentary term. The Committee for Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership Committee member Vlatko Kopic is proposed and Mato Čičak is proposed as a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. It is proposed as a member of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament Davor Ivo Stier. On 1 April 2019, a member of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia stopped acting as Dr. Andrija Mikulic for holding the parliamentary mandate. It is proposed for a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament Dragica Vranjš, as it is a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament that has stopped acting as Marijan Kustic on 5 April 2019. The Vice-President of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament Sunčana Glavak is proposed and Ante Bačić is proposed as vice-president of the Committee and interparliamentary cooperation of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed for the president to be resolved, excuse me, for the chairman of the Committee on Information and Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, Sunčana Glavak is proposed, as on 1 April 2019, the president of the Committee on Information and Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Andrija Mikulić. It is proposed to be a deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly Domagoj Mikulić as he stopped acting on 5 April 2019 as a deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125852	I thank my colleague Sanader. I'm opening a debate. A colleague named Bauk came forward on behalf of the club. Therefore, there are no reports for the debate, so I am concluding it, and then we will vote unitedly on all proposals or decisions of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I therefore vote on the Committee's proposal for a decision on selection, appointment and administrative matters. Please, let's vote. I find 94 votes unanimously in favour, that decisions were made as proposed by the board. We will now just for a short time, so we will continue the free speech debates by clubs and then we will complete the debate on the point of the proposal to amend and supplement the status of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, and we will continue to work on Tuesday, April 9, on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Employees. Thank you, please, now who won't stay, leave the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125853	The last item of the agenda today is: - Selection, appointment and resolution; Proposal for a decision of the Committee for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks on the selection of a member of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs, Mr. Ante Sanader, to explain the proposals and decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125854	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Art. Paragraph 105.1 of the subst. 1st and 3rd, Art. 161st century 1st and Article 1st of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs shall submit a proposal to the HS for a decision to elect a member of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. Ivana Belec is proposed as a member of the DIP of the Republic of Croatia. The term of office of the member of the commission shall begin on the day of entry into office, and the duty shall take place on the day of the oath before the president of the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125855	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Committee and open the debate. The first is Mr. Anka Mrak-Taritash in front of the GLASs Club and HSU. She's gone, she's losing her right. The other one. Yes, well, the third Mr. Ante Sanader is in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125856	Thank you. Here, on the basis of the Decision of the Committee on Selection and Designation, the HDZ Club proposed Mrs. Ivana White, degree. a lawyer who meets the conditions for this place at the DIP. As is known, two members are proposed, for members of two opposition proposals and two from the majority. Given that HDZ and most of the others were left without one member, then it was proposed, here it is, as mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125857	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met and tomorrow at 9:30, 10 April 2019 we start with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act and then, the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities, actually 3, one, two, three, bill proposals, 3 final drafts of the tourism law. Thank you very much. Have a nice and pleasant evening, everyone. Session adjourned at 17.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125858	And now before moving to the final vote, I would like to inform you that regarding the decision to elect a DIP member, given that the election campaign has started and that I do not want to cast a shadow on the work of the DIP, so we will make a decision on the selection of a DIP member after the European Parliament's election. ... Now, I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for other decisions, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125859	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall propose a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Legislatives. It is proposed that members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament Ante Bačić be dismissed, and that Ante Plazonić be proposed as a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125860	I ask you all, and then we will debate united and vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125861	Resolved members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament Sabina Glasovac are proposed. It is proposed to be a member of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament Martin Baričević as it was a member of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament on 1 April 2019, Dr Andrija Mikulić stopped acting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-25-0.u125862	I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate because no one is answering, so I suggest we vote unitedly on the decisions as proposed. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 108 FOR and 1 CONSIDENT, have made the decisions as proposed by the Committee. This brings us to the end of the debate and the vote, we continue tomorrow at 09.30 p.m., the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecution, First Reading, P.Z. Number 620. Thank you very much. A session interrupted at 19.18 hours. It is now time to present the position of the independent representative of the respected Marina Skiboli, please.
