ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166209	Thank you very much. Mr. President, just one suggestion to you. Today we only have two laws on the agenda, one of these is GLAS and HSU, what matters, Mr. President, six laws were withdrawn yesterday, there's almost nothing on the agenda today. We have a whole series of important topics that can be classified. Let's just say you don't include the President of the Supreme Court's report here to discuss the catastrophic situation in the judiciary, the current issues. People are complaining all over Croatia about the injustice that is happening in Zadar, and you are holding that report here to discuss it. Please include the Supreme Court report to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament on the judiciary which I think is one of the worst systems that we have in the Republic of Croatia thanks to HDZ which is such a system... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166210	Comrade Maras, please sit down. Maybe it's just thanks to the SDP and your legacy. How do you know that, you're an analyst with the Croatian judiciary? Okay, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure, I gave you a chance, and you gave a political speech. I don't think that's correct. ... Oh, I'm gonna put those agenda points I'm assessing that the conditions have been met and the dynamics are good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We worked until after midnight yesterday, so we'll continue our work today and tomorrow. Let's go now with the first item of the agenda, it's: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Pension Insurance, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 761 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. Here is the respected Labour and Pension System Minister Josip Aladrovic. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166211	Honorably, Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. Let me begin by pointing out what we have achieved through a package of laws that we have adopted since 1 January 2019 or about a package of six pension laws in 2019. Thus, the package fully improved the pension system in order to maintain long-term sustainability and adequateness of pension. The improvement of the system also removed the perceived inequalities in the pension system itself and positive developments were made for both present and future pensioners. In the pension reform, we set out to adapt the system to demographic challenges, changes in the labour market, but also to economic opportunities. The sustainability of the pension system, I must say, is unquestionable but we must be aware that changes in the labour market and demographic trends also affect its long-term sustainability. Already after the first nine months of application of this law, the positive effects of the amendment of the law package have been seen, which shows that we have responded in time and time to the changes introduced. In the term of the government's pensions grew about 11.5%, as of 1 July 2019, pensions of the lowest of 225,000 pensioners were further increased by 3.13%, making the total increase of the lowest pensions in the government's term 15%. Let me also set aside measures that have affected these significant results, which we have achieved through a package of laws that was voted on in 1.1. So we've expanded the circle of pensioners who can work half the time and receive a pension, including users of early retirement and retirement pensions for long-term insurance. At the end of last year, about 4000 pensioners were employed before the legal changes, while the extension of the changes was employed by almost 14000 and that number increased to 14000 pensioners both on the labour market. So it shows great interest in working in retirement and longer staying in the world of work. We also introduced an additional six-month period for each child born and adopted as an additional demographic measure within the pension system. This measure since 1 January has so far been used by just over 6800 women who have increased their pensions by about 2% per child. This measure under the pension system is also primarily sought in an appropriate manner and in line with economic opportunities and economic activities to protect motherhood. Also aware of the fact that there are differences in the amount of pension between men and women we mitigate these differences. One of the essential elements of the reform is the stimulation of later retirement and we doubled the so-called Bonification within the law from 0.15% to 0.34% for each month later retirement. The goal is to reward the longer stay in the world of work and ultimately the goal is to provide us with more adequate or larger pensions that can be higher by 20.4% in five years of work. We must not forget that by introducing a more favourable model of pension coordination, we have provided pensioners with more appropriate compliance with the level of their pensions than with wage increases or consumer price increases. We can thus point out that on January 1st, the harmonisation published was 1.15% and on July 1st, this harmonisation was 2.44%. The total additional allocations for such harmonisations amount to 842 million kuna at the annual level, i.e. at the level of 2019. It is also an important part of the pension system and the mandatory capitalised savings system that is precisely due to the measures presented by the pension reform that are getting better results. The net assets of pension funds currently amount to more than 100 billion kuna and has also been marked by a significant increase since the beginning of this year. In order to achieve a more favourable pension and to eliminate an intergenerational inequality which was one of the basic objectives of pension reform in the process of exercising the right to an age or early retirement period, insurance companies are allowed to choose from the pension only from the first pillar or the combination of pensions from the first and second pillars together. The payment of the allowance has also been extended to users who have opted for the payment of pensions from the first and second pillars. The amount of the allowance for the internship reached by 31 December 2001 shall be 27% and 20.25% shall be added to the internship as from 1 January 2002. The positive results of this measure are already visible. The payment of pensions from the first and second pillars as such has chosen about 46% of pensioners who decided to retire in 2019. This is an indicator of successfully implemented legal changes, or our commitment to continue to strengthen the system of individual capitalised savings. In addition, a kind of injustice has been corrected against generations born between 1962 and 1980 who will retire for the next 10 to 15 years so as not to have less pensions than pensioners who were secured only in the first pillar. Realising that financial literacy on capitalised pension savings is an extremely low level, we have already made great efforts before the pension reform in the financial demarcation of citizens, and through the reform we have further obliged pension societies to invest in the establishment of financial literacy, thus making citizens consciously make decisions on personal savings and on the pension system in general. Since the largest contribution to the assets of compulsory pension funds has been achieved by the A category since the beginning of work, the reform has changed the way in which new members who have not decided on their own if there is no age barrier. As of 1 October 2019, the new members shall be deployed to the A-categorys, and after the expiry of the 10-year period they will automatically be allocated to the B-categorys, if the previous insurance company has not changed the fund independently. With this measure, we want to increase the contributions to the assets of compulsory pension funds or to the assets of individual insurance companies in their funds or through their funds. In addition, we reduced the entry fee in the second pillar from 0.8% to 0.5% of the contributions paid as well as the management fee in a way that amounts to a maximum of 0.38% of the total assets reduced for the pension fund's financial liabilities in 2019 with an intensive reduction of 0.27% each year. In addition to the above, we have obliged the funds to use the benchmarks recognised by HANFA to ensure greater stability and security of the investment of pension funds, mostly domestic and foreign shares. We have also liberalised through pension reform the possibility of investing compulsory pension funds among other things and infrastructure projects in the area of the Republic of Croatia, so that individual pension funds can obtain up to 100% of the issue of securities that serve infrastructure projects with restrictions that vary on the category of the fund itself. The investment opportunities of compulsory pension funds have also been expanded through regulated capital collection systems, which further encourages the development of small, medium-sized enterprises, but also the start-up, we are talking about the total available funds of 100 million kuna. The government of the Republic of Croatia has shown that it is ready to offer new opportunities, new investment opportunities to pension societies, but has also provided additional 1.3 billion kuna to administrative discharges by 2030 in the personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds, and through all the above mentioned measures. We also encourage savings in the third voluntary pension fund because it is the best savings for old age with even two kinds of incentives. The suspension of the entry fee from the beginning of the year that has led to an increase in the number of members of voluntary pension funds by 26,000 compared to the previous year is the best indicator that we are on a good path related to the systems so that the second and third pillars. The third pension pillar was disbursed by the suspension of the pension society's entry fee, which so far amounted to 7% to 8% of the funds paid, and we also limited the management fee of up to a maximum of 3% of the total assets of the fund which had not been limited before the reform. An exit fee has also been abolished in the exercise of a pension right that previously amounted to 10% of the total amount in the personal account of a member of the fund and has been additionally reduced to 2.5% in the case of transfer of a personal account in the fund managed by another pension company. There is also the possibility that a member of the fund, independently of the value of the property in a personal account, may request a one-time payment of the funds after the right to retire. The European Commission's 2019 report on pension reform, i.e. a 6-retirement package, strongly assessed that, with tax reform, it contributed to the exit of the Republic of Croatia from macroeconomic imbalances, as well as improvements in credit rating by prominent credit agencies, thus opening up the possibility of new investments and definitely contributing to an increase in employment. Despite all the positive shifts arising from the full pension reform and the full reform of the pension system, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has respected the will of more than 700,000 Croatian citizens expressed through the request for a call for a national referendum of the Civil Initiative "67 is too much" to propose an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act since 1 January 2020, which would fully take the proposals set out in that request. So we propose the following. The right to an age pension is realised when the insurance company turns 65 and 15 years of retirement. The right to early retirement is realised when the insurance company turns 60 and 35. The right to an age pension and to a long-term insurance undertaking shall be exercised subject to 60 years of age. Life and 41 C.E. Retirement, insurance for effective duration. Furthermore, it is proposed to ease the pension for early retirement by reducing the starting factor for determining early retirement from current 0.3% to 0.2% for each month of early retirement, before meeting the conditions for retirement i.e. This is, therefore, 2.4% per year to a maximum of 12% for 5.g. early retirement. The transitional period shall be proposed from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2029. in which the age and early retirement conditions for women with conditions for men are gradually equalised in a way that increases the age for retirement around 3 months and increases the age and retirement period by 3 months each year for early retirement. Since more than 5000 persons have been entitled to early and older retirement with higher pensions in this year, the government also proposes that they be appointed by the official duty of pensions with a lower reduction of 0.2% from 1 January 2020. The Ministry of Labour and the pension system will be in place within 2 years. from the date of entry into force of this law, to carry out an ex post impact assessment of this law in view of the impact on the labour market. It is estimated that the adoption of referendum proposals will take place in the next 2nd year. the additional funding of €35.7 million in 2020 and €91.7 million in 2021 will be necessary and the revenues of the state budget will be reduced at the same time by €9.2 million in 2020 and €34.9 million in 2021. It is important to stress that accepting referendum proposals does not mean giving up on pension reform, as I mentioned earlier, pension reform has not only raised the age limit for the exercise of pension rights, but a number of measures have made the pension system fully improved. It is understandable that the public focus was exclusively on one segment of pension reform, raising the age for pensioners, while the neglected remained significant positive pension effects and appropriate solutions. We must also be aware that the pension system is very difficult to make appropriate and fiscally sustainable without prolonging the working life, but by stimulating work at a later age through a double, more than double increase in bonification will certainly result in increased participation of elderly people in the labour market in the future. The longer stay in the world of work also means a bigger pension, has a positive impact on the unfavourable ratio of insurance and pensioners and has a long-term impact on, therefore, this unfavourable relationship between insurance and pensioners. The pension reform also created preconditions for achieving the basic objectives, but it should be recalled that the pension system is complex, and that it needs to be continuously monitored and adapted to measures outside the pension system, particularly demographic measures, measures to encourage employment that have a significant impact on pension. I must also point out that the government has so far singled out 6.5 billion kuna for active employment measures, leading to positive labour market developments, an increase in employment rates, as well as a reduction in unemployment rates. To the very measures of active employment policy in 2.5.g. There are more than 100,000 people who, therefore, are constantly improving according to trends in unemployment and labour market needs. Finally, let me once again respect, to express through these proposals, respect for the will of more than 700 000 citizens, accepting the 67 initiative is too much, but also once again, I note that the package of pension laws covered by the pension reform fully improves the pension system in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system, the suitability of pensions of present and future pensioners, and we believe that the three-stage pension system can ensure more adequate pensions of citizens of age, and we will continue to develop it. Thank you. Therefore, given that an amendment has been prepared by the Legislative Committee in front of the Proposer, I accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166212	I thank the Minister, we have 15 replicas, but before that, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166213	He's been injured. Rules of Procedure 238, in which the speaker should talk about the subject that we have heard 15 minutes of exposure to pension reform, and we have heard nothing but minutes, two to accept initiative 67. Therefore, the minister spoke of everything other than what is today a topic, which is why the 67 initiative was accepted is too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166214	Dear Mrsic, you deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure of HS, this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166215	Thank you very much. Mrsic said wrong, not injured in 238, but 232, which says that the speaker should be held on the agenda, Mr Minister did not stick to the topic, completely ignored, the law explained some reforms that citizens do not see, see only low and no pensions, and on this side it is a reflection of the 750 000 signatures that the citizens gave, so you should have warned him on several occasions and there you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166216	You get a warning, and you break the Rules of Procedure on purpose and very boldly, so you get a warning. Now we're going to the replicas, here's my colleague Maras, you're the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166217	While you are trying to silence the debate here and criticism to HDZ you will not succeed in it, you are aware of it yourself, so continue to behave arrogantly and nervously. Mr. Minister, what I was about to tell you is one thing and only one thing I'm interested in. So, you're aware that 750,000 people have given signatures against the pension reform carried out by HDZ or that you are now continuing after the minister who lost himself, Pavic, no one knows who is more, after his proposals, the expensive campaign that spent money in the wind, I'm interested in one thing, so whether you really think that in the Republic of Croatia it's possible to live with an average pension below 40% of the average salary and on the other hand whether you think that even every third Croatian pensioner who has a pension, an adult pension under 2000 kn can survive at all, how you think to solve this problem, I'm interested in this fairy tale that you've made something, macroeconomic balances etc., that's not interested, thank you very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166218	Thank you, Comrade Maras. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166219	Dear Representative Maras, if you'd listened carefully to what I was saying, I think most of it I've just explained how we can make pensions possible and what we've done so far, but once again, it's not a problem. We have so far increased pensions by 11.7%, the lowest pensions by 15%. What we're doing is encouraging a long stay in the world of work and a long stay in the world of work leads to bigger pensions, so if I can reproduce your question about how we plan to do it, exactly the way I've explained it to you and a set of entire legal measures does, I hope you've seen them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166220	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166221	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, I am interested in what was the key moment, namely we had the opportunity to listen to about the pension reform when it was a whole set of laws, about how it was designed, how it was elaborated, that it had all the elements, behind when there was a referendum initiative, were videos that contributed to the fact that it was something that was perfectly complex, and now here we get the amendment of the law, which was the key moment why you decided to install this into the law, why you decided to do it because if it was so well done, such a good architecture of everything, why this, why you accepted the referendum initiative, why you didn't say and the rest of what you all along claimed was ideal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166222	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166223	Thanks for asking. So I just have to remind you that given the provisions that the citizens' initiative has put into question, the provisions that have been passed since 2014, so that we cannot only talk from the context of this reform and the answer directly to your question, Croatian citizens, we respect the will of Croatian citizens, and we have clearly and unequivocally justified this through this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166224	Comrade Mrssic, please, you are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166225	Minister, you said that first Minister Pavić and you said that if the initiative "67 is too much" was adopted that the system would lose 45 billion, and then when the initiative was adopted, then you said well, it would be settled so that here we will now start working until 68 years and then the tide will be bigger and then we will cancel it and now you have given up this crazy initiative that we are going to have to do it by 68 years, which has proved to be completely wrong. Obviously, you're wandering around in the system and your associates said you're still getting along in the system, and that's what you're doing, so first you went into it, and then you tortured us with videos, so now you're pulling these laws, what do you want with this?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166226	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166227	Thank you for asking. I'm not going to say what some of the same people in the ministry said about the predecessors in my position because I too appreciate this home to address it that way but I can answer this first part of your question. So when we talk about these 45 billion kunas or what you've been communicating with, so the static assessment of legal changes is like that, what we're facing in the next period, so through the system of work, through the system of labour regulation, through a system of encouraging people to work longer through other legal changes, and we turn that financial or fiscal exposure into a more positive direction. I'm sure we'll do it, in a very short time you'll see the results of that work, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166228	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166229	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you see one man has created a formula that can assess the number of civilizations that exist in our galaxy. I'm also going back to this question for 45 billion kuna as much as you said it would cost, I don't know if you personally but it was that story if it didn't extend your working life. However, today you mentioned again in the pension funds accounts there are 100 billion kunas, which is actually your position, I have repeatedly asked you, when in the future will ultimately be worth the funds that are in II. The pillar, which is available in pension funds and when it will be profitable for future beneficiaries to receive larger pensions precisely thanks to that II. Retirement pillar and will you then increase the separation for that II. The post and will you allow legal solutions so that pension funds can invest more? If Aunt Marica knew she had to buy Kraš shares at one price and earn money, we might as well know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166230	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166231	I thank you for asking. So as for that, also in the opening statement, I've already given one part of the answer. What is trend now and as shown by the trends since the changes 1.1.2019 is such that the pension from I. and II. It stands combined since it has the right to choose a more favourable pension, it elects 46% of citizens. We are very confident, sure that the percentage of citizens who choose to retire from I and II will. It stands and that means it's chosen when I-II. the pension column shows its results, so when it is higher than the pension rate would be if it were only from the I pension column, we expect these moments to go towards higher percentages from individualised and capitalised savings and lower percentages from the I pillar. It is this way that long-term sustainability is ensured, we have through legislative changes and I have mentioned it in the first part of my exhibition, we have made pension funds much larger, much more significant investments, and I am sure that these investments will show their effectiveness in a short period of time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166232	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166233	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, in any case, you're solving the problem you inherited, so you weren't even a member of the government at the time, and you can't say that, no one here will say that your responsibility is yours. But what was left after these changes, the referendum initiative gave you the result that you respected as a government and they accepted it. What remains the question is, in fact, the whole process that has been conducted since the promotional campaign, from the argument behind which the government has also stood, will ever be made public. I know it was a failed action, she had her own expenses, a matter of costs which, whether it would be publicly announced, you are the minister who inherited it and is expected to know what taxpayers' funds were spent on, in the end to show that actually these taxpayers want a different system than the campaign was directed against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166234	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166235	Thank you for asking. So as far as the campaign itself is concerned, that is to say, information on the campaign has already been published, so I don't think it should be repeated, the figures have been published earlier. And as for the very concept of this legal solution itself, it is very clear, therefore respects the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and thus demonstrates some kind of involvement of the Government towards all those who were interested in signing this referendum initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166236	Now it's time for my colleague Curai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166237	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. I'm interested in one thing, so since I personally participated in working groups, making this pension law that we're changing now, and what I was saying then is something on the trail and what it was today, but we see that this 68-year-old proposal has been withdrawn, and I was saying that we are not in any way penalizing people, but that we certainly allow anyone who wants to stay longer on the labour market. Why would they defend someone? So I'm interested in what happens to those at the end of 68 years and, in fact, the proposal that was in the procedure is not exactly what they'd like to see because it should be handled with the agreement of the employer and the worker. If the worker doesn't want to, he doesn't have to, and if the employer doesn't want to, he can't. And I think that this liberal way of looking at it would give us that possibility that anyone who wants to stay can stay longer if there is a need for deficiting occupations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166238	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166239	Thank you, counselor, for asking the question. So, exactly the intensity of the changes in labour legislation is such that it will be implemented through a much wider public debate, through much greater participation and our social partners, through this way we want to restore and give power to social dialogue. That is why we have actually acted in a way that we will listen, talk more, see which solutions are the most optimal and thus define the working legislation so that it can be, that it enables all those who can, who want to stay in the world of work for a long time and, in particular, affect the system of work, but also the pension system that, before the end of the working century, are extremely cohesive and connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166240	Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166241	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, today we were supposed to discuss the set, a series of labour pension laws that you have announced over the past month and that you have already sent to public consultation. We know that the infamous pension reform of your predecessor, which you're not responsible for, but here you are now showing again that you're breaking your throat into strawberries, that this whole set of laws, was taken off overnight from the agenda after you announced it. And the question is, do you and the government even know where you're going with this pension reform? Because we really don't see either after the first or after the one you're announcing because you know the real direction of what you want to do with the pension reform. The best example is that you have so abruptly downloaded a set of laws that should be on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament today. And as we can see, apart from this one law, there is no one else in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166242	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166243	Since, once again, I have to repeat 711 expressions, here 711 thousand of which some citizens are sitting here today, so we have decided to accept these proposals. And does the government know the direction it's going, of course he does, of course it's very clear. So, allowing for a long stay in the world of work. As far as the pension laws package is concerned, my colleagues Curaju answered me a few minutes ago, so what's the intensity of these pension laws is a longer stay in the world of work. What we have seen as an additional benefit in the very formation of these legal solutions is a wider public debate, a wider debate with trade unions, a wider debate with employers on the other hand. After all, and a wider debate through this House, and we expect to produce the best solutions that will absolutely improve the effects and pension reforms but also reform indirectly the rest of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166244	Now it's up to counterpart Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166245	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that this government was wandering dangerously in this pension reform before you took office. So you had one reform that was, as the government said, well designed, prepared, well thought out. After that, union initiatives began, pressures, you gave up part of your reform now, and employers pressed on the other side, so I don't really know where we're going to end up. But what I am interested in right now is government thinking, will the worker be able to continue working after 65 years if he wants to, and if he wants to retire at 65 years of age? Or something's changing because I see employers now have another suggestion. So once again, will the worker be able to continue working after 65 years if he wants to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166246	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166247	I thank you for asking first. We have so far expressed an unequivocal position on this matter that I think the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia you know. But once again, I would like to point out, as I have answered, and to the previous two questions, these are the questions that we need to lead to a wider public debate. We believe that we can improve certain additional parts of labour legislation through labour laws, and I am sure that through this debate that will take place in the short term, we will implement the best solutions to labour legislation. And labour legislation as such is highly linked to the pension system so that it will achieve a certain one optimum for the whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166248	Now it's up to MP Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166249	Thank you, Your Honor. The respected ministers until yesterday had some chance of being involved with trade union initiatives, but they were in some stalemate position, but the government president's report matated and no longer has any arguments. This morning is a consternation and they don't know what they're going to say, and also this set of pension laws that you've been talking about is very hard to admit that in 2014 you passed a law in which people had to stay in the world of work until 67 years, and today you're proposing to stay in the world of work for up to 65 years, and that's what hurts them. The fact is also that in the opening part, you were also talking about the pension reform that we were preparing at the time and about the positive effects that have happened, but also by accepting the initiative which is legitimately the right of the government and the will of the citizens to change what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166250	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166251	Thank you, counselor, for asking the question. When we talk about full pension reform, so I put out one part, one part of the measures that were implemented through those six laws. There are still a whole series of positive measures that may be less visible or that may have slightly lower financial, fiscal and long-term effects. However, a certain fund has definitely been reached through those legal changes. Here again, we respect the will of the citizens in this matter, and I am sure that this will bring out one quality, namely, one quality system that is long-term sustainable, pensions will be more adequate, and we have corrected that intergenerational inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166252	Now it's time for fellow Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166253	Mr. Babic, if anyone's a matinee, the nation is a matinee. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the pressure of the referendum has entered what we are doing today and here, in the light of a whole series of replicas, you are talking about social dialogue. 132 participants, i.e. you received opinions through the e-consultation of the interested and professional public, you did not respect any of them. What kind of social dialogue are you talking about? You shortened the e-consultation debate to 14 days, what kind of social dialogue are you talking about? And please ask a question. Why don't you get caught up in the basic problem of retirement, which is that pensions from the pension fund are only received by those who earned them. Over 50 pensions, 50% of pensions are not earned in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166254	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166255	I'm afraid I'm going to start answering all of this if it's a small minute, but here I'm going to try to sum it up as, as soon as possible. So when we talk about this last part of the question, it's just an incorrect data, so it's kind of hard for me to defend this thesis that you've brought out. When we talk about the start of your question and when you talk about 132 requests at e-consultation and social dialogue, social dialogue is a dialogue between the government, the union and the Croatian Employers' Association, while e-consultation is the process through which Croatian citizens can express some opinion on the law. Since the subject of these 132 entries, 132 opinions are not at all related to what we are carrying out through pension reform, they have actually become irrelevant, since they do not apply to the laws we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166256	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166257	Dear Minister, I'm not going to talk about how you've been pressed by a referendum, you stole a referendum, you've been forced here by the people, so you haven't given the people a referendum on changing the electoral system, but what I'm interested in is the amount of privileged pensions. He's somewhere around 8 billion kuna, we've got 13,000 pensions from NOB, when we're going to go, when we're going to go to audit, first with NOB, and then with the fake defenders who've got real defenders to give everything to, who have fought for this Croatia, who are confirming the Homeland War, when are you going to go? Let's go to the N.B.A. review so we can get to these fake Homeland War defenders. What is it you don't touch these partisans or you're a locksmith, like this crew over here on my right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166258	Answer, please. Please, colleagues and colleagues, the minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166259	Although your question is not the subject of the bill, but I can give a principled answer. So when we talk about specific regulations or pensions that are implemented under special regulations [[Just a little...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166260	...I'm your colleagues and colleagues, so give us the basics to be correct, the minister says, you've asked the question and then you're talking to your colleague Maras. So let the minister answer, please. Can we get this over with? Come on, come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166261	Thank you, Mr. President. So when we talk about pensions according to specific regulations or regulations, it's one subject that comes to order after the general system of pensions is arranged and we communicate all the time and that's the case. However, acquired rights are acquired rights and this really incurring in this way acquired rights is not possible at this time. As far as the costs are concerned, or as far as these pensions are concerned, I must mention that once again, I must give this information to the public once again. Therefore, the specific regulations are paid out of the general revenue of the budget, let's not mix incomes and incomes or general revenue of the budget because in fact only confusion is brought into public debate, and all those who are discussing this are very aware of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166262	Thank you. Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166263	Thank you, Mr. President. Here comes a message from professors and teachers who are currently on strike because the government did not agree to their demands and one question was from one professor, a fellow student from a school who is 30 years old, so you can't determine exactly because other parameters, how long will his pension be after about 35 years of training, and do you think that pension is worthy of his life, so professors' pensions and teachers from 35 to 40 years of age are average?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166264	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166265	So since this is about an individual colleague of yours that we really don't have enough data to count on his pension in the House, we would be extremely unserious when we engage in such structures, I can't tell you, so I can't tell you that, however, what the aim of this law is, given that the issues are not too much related to the law we're discussing, what the objective of this law is that this long-term sustainability of the system is improved or that another objective is to mention, the adequateness of pensions, the adequateness of equal pensions. So, all this series of changes within pension laws, I can't answer in a way that pension is big, whether it's small, whether it's worth living but I can answer that it's going to be bigger with this series of measures than it is now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166266	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166267	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Mr. Minister with Associates, the fact is that the government had to give up its bill "67 is too much" under public pressure or citizens, and it is good that it is, however, so it seems that now the Government is back in stalemate and that you have withdrawn this part of the Labour Act and other laws that are attached to this law and I am asking you if you will give up your announced national pension because you are obviously going to stop, that you are not planning well, so you have to reset. It would not be good to give up because over 50,000 citizens in the Republic of Croatia over 65 do not have any income and it is right to introduce a national pension in the Republic of Croatia which, according to us in the HSS, should not be lower than the poverty threshold and also to correct the injustice of more than 25 000 pensioners from agriculture have a pension of about 1000 kn, to include them in that task force to reward them when we already reward other groups, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166268	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166269	I appreciate the question. So you've actually given me space to repeat what we've repeated in the current hour, but also by communicating with the public. So the national pension is the proposal of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the current government of the Republic of Croatia, the national pension is one of the programme proposals from the HDZ programme for these elections and will definitely be the institution to be introduced in 2021. Given that you are suggesting that someone should be introduced into the task force, you obviously have information that the task force is working on it, the task force will construct very high-quality proposals, we have plenty of time for legislative activities during the following year and in production with 1.1.2021. national pension as such moves, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166270	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166271	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with Associates, you mentioned the rise in pensions in your term of office of 11%. You are deeply aware that GDP is nominal, cumulatively so what should be a harmonisation criterion, has grown significantly more therefore pensions do not monitor GDP growth and, of course, do not follow the growth of the standards of some other groups in society. Here you have managed to find money for bigger wages, but you have to admit, pensions are almost 3 times less than average salary, so somewhere at 40% and your key task in time ahead is also to find money for faster and more efficient pension coordination because these people can't live.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166272	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166273	Thank you for asking. You are also deeply aware that pension coordination does not follow the GDP growth rate and it is not even a practice in most countries so that it always comes down to a certain percentage of the inflation rate and a certain percentage of the gross wage movement rate. Since macroeconomic elements are positive here, that's why pensions grew, so when we speak, wages grew, the truth grew much less inflation rates, for that reason this increase of 11.7%. I should point out that not so long ago we had a situation where GDP did not grow, when it fell, when the coordination rates were much less so and this growth of 11.7% for the average pension or 15% for the minimum pension, we can really see as a positive macroeconomic trend in the economy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166274	And Shuker comes at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166275	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Minister, I am pleased that the government has accepted the wish and initiative of Croatian citizens to correct that injustice that the SDP made in 2013 and to restore these amendments to the law to the provision for Croatian citizens to retire at 65 years of age and that is something to stress because 67 years is something that has brought SDP and not HDZ. The second thing, I'm glad you mentioned something that perhaps today we should discuss more here, which is that we come together to a consensus and through social dialogue that those for whom there is an interest in the labour market and there is an employer's interest, we can keep it longer in the world of work and also benefit them with higher pensions. And I'm glad that you mention higher pensions all the time and given the structure of employees and the number of pensioners, we can only talk through greater economic growth and no different.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166276	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166277	I thank you for asking. Therefore, economic growth or macroeconomic developments in the Republic of Croatia determine the movements of all other grants, social contributions and so on the pension system. When we talk about the structure of this economic growth and when we talk about certain macroeconomic elements, I have also made it very clear in response to the last question, and I have explained what pension harmonisation looks like. It depends on the growth of wages. Since we show a positive trend in this segment, pensions have also grown. As far as labour legislation is concerned, I repeat this once again through a wider public debate through a wider social economic consensus, we expect in fact a social economic consensus and we expect to find quality paradigms that will make the pension system sustainable in the long term. I must refer to the beginning of your question, that this longer work has not been introduced during our government, has been introduced much earlier. We have now respected the will of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166278	Thank you. We're done with the replicas, so now I'm calling the committee's reporters if they want to take the floor. The chairman of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of counterpart Gordan Maras reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166279	Thank you very much. A colleague, president, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, he would have expressed his disdain for me as president of the Labour and Pension System Committee because he was sitting alone yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166280	My colleague Maras can't do this, you have to report on the board's conclusion, it's your job, not your personal opinions that you're about to say. I'm asking you to stick to the procedure and not violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166281	Okay. At a meeting of the committee held yesterday at 8.30 in the Croatian Parliament, members of the board, i.e. I, as president, expressed my disfavor that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had withdrawn a whole series of laws through its representative on the Committee itself, and that it had not informed the Croatian Parliament at all, and the notice to the Labour Committee came at 9:00 p.m. to mean half an hour after the beginning of the session. So I'm asking you to protect the dignity and that was one of the points at the session of the Croatian Parliament. As regards this point on the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, the Committee discussed that act in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In her opening statement, she pointed out that the proposed law respects the will of Croatian citizens, i.e. the undisputed number of voters to sign the national referendum and that the proposals for the citizens' initiative "67 is too much". Thus, the retirement age was reduced to 65 years instead of 67 years and the pensions were reduced from 18% to 12%. It is also proposed that the age pension right for long-term insurance workers with over 60 years of age and 41 years of training is further extended to a period of up to 2029 in which women will be able to exercise the right to a temporary retirement pension with a reduced age limit. The debate gave the opinion that a good incentive for long-term work, but that older workers need to be continuously educated in order to maintain competences. After the discussion, the Committee decided, with a majority of votes of 6 for and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act and to appoint me rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166282	Okay, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166283	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So, Article 238, and as chairman of the Committee, Mr Maras, whose member I am actually tells the truth, which is not good and correct because of the public and I have no other way of correcting it. So, the session began at twenty to nine because the chairman was late, and on behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted a request to the president of this working body showing that the government was standing by to withdraw these laws from the procedure, so before the session itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166284	Thank you. I warned my colleague Maras that he couldn't make his views personal, so the committee reporter conveys what the board concluded, so this breach of the Rules of Procedure would have made sense if I hadn't warned the chairman of the Maras board. Okay, now we're going to the debate. No, there is no warning because there is a logic in what counterpart Babic said. We're going to debate now, there's been 10 clubs and for now 16 individual debates, so it's going to be a very interesting and long debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and counterpart Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166285	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. In an explanation, i.e. in an assessment of the basic issues to be regulated by this law, and what the minister spent at least the first 20 minutes of his exposure, which is the finding behind which the Government said that they had entered into force by a package of six pension laws that had since 1 January 2019, allegedly fully improved the pension system in order to ensure the long-term sustainability and suitability of pensions of current and future pensioners. That's what it says in this final bill, that's what the minister was always talking about in the opening statement, and in fact nothing is further from the truth than the findings I've just read. Namely, this law that is before us is a recognition that this pension reform was a complete failure and a failure. And we all know that in this Chamber, not just citizens, not only those 750,000 citizens who have signed the request of the 67 referendum initiative, but also all the other citizens know it today. However, we have said that the current minister is not the most responsible for this package of pension laws, one of the other ministers who was, who was more in that position. I hope that the new minister will not repeat the same mistakes that occurred to the former minister who forced the pension reform without the consent of other social partners, without respecting the views and MPs in this HS, and then it is no wonder that the pension reform was disastrously failed, as it is difficult to remember that one law or set of laws, and especially this Pension Insurance Act has caused so much opposition from citizens that 750,000 of them have signed against certain key provisions of that law. It's a larger number than the votes she received, won the parties that make up the current government, which best speaks of opposition, the pension reform that the former minister came up with. This law that is before us, the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act is one special law, this is not a law like any other that has ever been before HS, it seems to you that this is the proposal of Law No. 761, it is proposed by the Croatian government as hundreds of other laws, but it is actually a completely different law. There's never been such a law in HS, I can say it responsibly. Why is he special? It is especially because this bill fully accepts the request of the 67 referendum initiative, and the referendum question was, in fact, whether the citizens wanted to accept the amendment of the Law on Pension Insurance in the text proposed by this draft law. We had different situations when individual citizens' initiatives collected signatures against certain reform moves, so let's call them, some previous governments, but it was usually about situations where governments sent certain drafts of the law into the procedure or wanted to implement some other decision that the citizens disagreed with, and then the signatures were collected, so the governments more quickly withdrew those proposals from the procedure and gave up certain moves they intended to make. In this particular case, it happened for the first time that the government insisted on its bill, the law proposed HS, adopted by the parliamentary majority here, came into force, began to implement and then entered into the civil initiative stage, and in the referendum issue proposed amendments to this law, the referendum initiative is experiencing complete success with so many signatures that it was impossible to reduce to any extent to prevent the state referendum from being held. The only possible scenario left to the Government, and also to the parliamentary majority, is that instead of implementing the state referendum for which formal conditions have been acquired, it proposes this HS law to be adopted in the same text as that proposed by the citizens' referendum on the signing of certain transitional and final provisions set out in this legislative proposal. And in that sense, this HS never had before it such a bill. Namely, you can discuss this law, you can also submit amendments, but in order to prevent a state referendum from being held, this Final Bill proposal must be adopted in the same text as the text proposed by the referendum initiative. At the time when we first discussed the referendum initiative on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, I said that the only option left to refer to the government in the parliamentary procedure of the draft law that would be exactly the same as the text proposed by the referendum initiative in order to avoid holding a state referendum and in the wake of an earlier decision of the Constitutional Court in 2010. When they decided at the time on a referendum initiative that collected signatures against the draft Labour Act, the Constitutional Court found that the objectives of the referendum initiative were met. As a result, today's bill of law before this HS and this HS must adopt it in the same text as proposed by the referendum initiative. But that's not all. The promoter forgot that this bill, which he proposes, is not an ordinary bill, this is not a law that the HS will adopt in a few days and that will come into force and that can one day also change by the same procedure in some undefined time period when the Government estimates that it can propose some other bill which could materially be contrary to this law that I believe this HS will pass. The fact is that this law proposes that HS adopt it so that no state referendum should be held on the draft law proposed by the citizens' initiative. This is the essence of what is actually the subject of the debate today, it is not the subject of a failed pension reform, we all know, it is no longer necessary to talk about it, except to draw attention to the Minister that he should not similarly approach this next pension reform that has been announced and which is already in public consultation and that this is a good lesson. What is missing is a certain HS declaration that must commit to respecting the referendum will of citizens who did not actually have the opportunity to be presented at the referendum, but it is now shown in 750,000 citizens' signatures. Therefore, the Most Representatives' Club proposes the conclusion that HS should adopt in addition to this Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, and I will read that conclusion. The HS adopts the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, in the same text as it was proposed by citizens' initiative 67 is too much, which it has collected in accordance with the Constitution and the law, a sufficient number of valid signatures for the implementation of the State referendum on the draft Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. Point 2. The HS undertakes not to adopt a law which would be substantially contrary to any provision of the law referred to in point 1 of this conclusion. Point 3 of any provision of the law referred to in point 1 of this conclusion may only be amended by a decision in the referendum, this conclusion shall take effect on the day of its adoption and shall be published in the National Journal. To clarify, if this law were not in front of HS, if HS had not adopted it, citizens in the national referendum would have decided on the bill, it would have been a decision in the referendum on the basis of a citizens' decision, and on the basis of an initiative of voters who signed a request for a referendum issue. So, the fact is that this law, now the government has not proposed, that I suppose HS will accept it, adopt it in this text, it would actually be, I believe, deeply, accepted in the referendum not only because it was signed by 750,000 citizens, I believe that even more in the referendum would vote for this bill, possibly more than in some previous referendums voted for a certain decision. Therefore, this law should be seen as an expression of not only the will of those citizens who have signed the request of a referendum initiative, the government is already starting from the fact that this bill is such that it would be adopted in a referendum and that it would come into force and certainly would and therefore this law cannot be treated as all the other laws passed by HS, this law should be treated as a law adopted in a national referendum because the signatures of citizens have been collected, this law cannot be changed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow if the Government at some point, this or the future thinks that it should amend that law for certain ex post effects which they will assess, and we know what their estimates are and what they have interpreted as the consequences of not adopting that pension package of laws. And we will therefore ask to accept this conclusion because otherwise it would be quite possible, and in my view it is justified that the initiators of the referendum initiative and seek the Constitutional Court's decision on the legal effects and obligations of the law which will be passed by HS, given that it is not held and that there will be no state referendum, and all formal conditions have been obtained to hold a state referendum and you are aware of that if this bill were to be in the state referendum that maybe more than a million or maybe a million and a half citizens would vote in that national referendum and that he, I am convinced, by a large majority of votes would be adopted in the national referendum. And for this very reason, the government is proposing this law HS and it must be accepted in the text that requested the referendum initiatives and that is the whole truth of this bill and that is the only thing that this HS really needs to define and when this law is discussing today as a final proposal, that this is an expression of the will of 750,000 citizens, and not of the government that they give by their own initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166286	We are now going to another club of representatives, it is the club of representatives of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA and respected colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166287	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, so today we should discuss amendments to the Pension Insurance Act on the basis of citizens' initiative 67 is too much, but the introduction himself, so the draftr of the law, the minister extended the subject and talked about the second pension column and the third and compulsory pension funds, so he only opened up the discussion of the problem of the entire pension system, the whole Pension Insurance Act, and I won't narrow it down for 15 minutes, so I'm going to talk about the whole issue of the pension system from one other point of view. In fact, last year, somewhere a little later than this time, we discussed with the argument of the government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister Pavić that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have only 30 years of employment and that it is necessary to extend the working life to 67 years or to shorten that departure from 2038 to 2033 that you are then working until 67 years and that it is necessary. Since then to this day, do you know how much has happened to correct the wrong statistics even though I've talked about it here? Nothing happened. It is still said that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have only 30 years of average internship. I'm still saying it, it's still the truth that comes out of the ministry and it's not true, gentlemen, it's not true, look at this table for this month. Among the retirement pensions that are over 30 years of age, you have also translated from disability and 84 000 pensions, 84 000 in 811 is 10% error and 10% decreases from 32 years of internships because these 84 000 have only 24 years of internships. So we can't add up in pear and apple statistics. We can't accuse the citizens of the Republic of Croatia of having a little internship. The same thing in this statistic that an age pension for itself, the one in which, at age 65 and 15, 16, 20, 25, as far as anyone has gained an internship, is 31, and these are the ones who are the oldest to retire and no one here wonders if that's the correct information. Does the one who has a pension request in the Croatian pension system and here has a 20-year-old pension system get a solution, enter this 20-year-old statistic, has he had a 20-year-old internship since he was 40? Did anyone ask themselves that? And in this respect, 100, more than 180 000 people in the Republic of Croatia are receiving pensions from abroad. By exchanging data in 2015 on Christmas payday to pensioners, we have come to the data that it is an average of 273 euros from abroad. When we multiply it by more than 180 000, it is about 4.5 billion kuna that come to Croatia which our tax system registers only if the accounts are open in Croatian banks. If someone has a German bank, an Austrian, Italian bank, we have no such data but for statistics, the amount of pensions is not important, it is important for the social situation in the Republic of Croatia and the assessment of this social situation but for statistics we lack on the basis of how many years the internship is achieved abroad. We have been a member of the EU since 2013, why do we not have this data? The only data we've been looking for and received was in 2015, today we're in 2019, why don't we have the data? Why are we using false statistics and putting on this proud people, telling them that he worked a little while during his life? Look who's retired this year. Those who retired this year, nine months. Their average internship without international contracts is 34 years and 11. I mean, the ones that left this year. These are the effects of the pension reform where the work experience has been extended since 1.1.1999. We have the effects, instead of monitoring how this is happening, to sort out statistics, we're still telling half-truths or falses, and we have all the data that we can handle this. Next, last year I spoke here at the so-called so-called. The pension reforms, the amendments, you refused them, it proved I was right, you introduced a bonus for the longer stay in the world of work from 65 to 70, and you abolished the bonus for the longer stay in the world of work from 60 to 65. So now you tell me in the normal course of things, in the normal life cycle, is there more working potential between 60 and 65, and we need more than 100,000 workers in different jobs or has more working potential from 65 to 70? Before these last changes, prior to the reform, the modesty of this 60th to 65th stay could be used exclusively by those who are long-term insurance companies, who in the 60th acquired 41 years of training modestly with 0.15 and we gave these others 0.34 after 65 years. So who's it meant for? To lawyers, judges, doctors, who is it meant for? Do we need that many professions? Well, of course not, of course not. At the same time, we allowed these people to work while receiving their pension. What's the problem? If he works with pensions, he pays regular contributions to health and pension insurance and pays himself part of his pensions. People, why are we doing this? It was said that it would be equal to penalization and bonification. Penalisation dropped to 0.30 instead of 0.34 during the debate last year. Now it will decrease to 0.20, and the bonus for work after 65 which only the privileged can do and the privileged activities will remain at 0.34 per month of further work, the rest of the world's work. My people, she's going to make a nice assistant director of HZZO 71 years old and she's an irreplaceable state official, she's going to have a very nice fall of 20.4% of this pension bigger. It's just one of hundreds and thousands of examples. Is that the essence of pension reform? I don't think so. I also talked here about allowing family pensioners to work. Family pension usually in the largest case women can use with a certain internship at the age of 50 women eating. Is there a working potential here? He's got a lot of work potential in 50 years. The reasons for the rejection of the amendments were not possible to allow the work of family pensioners because family pensions are also children. Are students also children and family pensioners? Yes, but the Law on Student Affairs states that they can work even though they are family pensioners. So, two laws with opposing attitudes. Do family pensioners and children and mothers who care for them have needs to work? They do, they do. That's what we talked about last year, timely, the problem remained. The problem has remained with the user of the lowest pension. So they're the ones who have an average of 1,600 kuna pensions. Does anyone who lives as a single man live in a family with 1,600 kuna pensions if he has the will and the strength to work have the need to work and earn? There may be 5,000 of them in the Republic of Croatia who have been hired this year. And there's no problem if there's a difference between what's been paid by contributions and what's worth the lowest pension of 50 or 100 kuna, but where the difference is 500 or 700 kuna, then such a pensioner or a pensioner when a job gets a second day or a second week's solution that he's no longer paid for his lowest pension, so he's no longer in charge, for example. 1,800 than it is 1,200 because 1,200 is covered by contributions. So, he has to, she has to do with all the need and all the motivation to do him or her, she has to lose 600 kuna first to get 1,000 kuna and work 4 hours, 4 hours a day. And why four hours a day? Who can control it, who can record it? Well, we could say I can work as hard as I can, it'd be fairer. So it was also debated here, I support that the lowest raised pensions by 3.13% are the only pensioners who have grown pensions, and this second story is whether 12 and this, nominally yes, receive nominally higher amounts, but the indexation mechanism is not called an increase in pensions, the indexation mechanism is called or its characteristic of maintaining purchasing power, maintaining the value of the pension, and that is why it is. We can't get up we've increased something which, nominally we are, no one can deny it, but it serves to maintain the value of retirement. Indeed 3.13% was increased by the lowest, but the argument was to help them, to boost social security. Is that the job of the pension system? No, it's not, and we have to do some new, other processes, other projects. Why not? Well, we're 66,000 of those pensions we pay abroad. What we have with the social security of citizens of Slovenia, BiH, Serbia etc.? 66 of the lowest we pay abroad. Do we have any extra money? That it went through the social system, in addition to that minimum pension to settle all pensions at coefficient 1 you don't have to take care of anyone outside the Republic of Croatia. All I'm talking about is justice and what goes through what system. In order to make these amendments and to supplement the laws that were fair in the procedure we gave amendments, we gave three short, clear amendments that I will explain in an individual debate, but this is about the next one. It's about the fact that HZMO has to issue everyone a new solution to reduce indexation, that people don't have to look for a solution if they're going to sue, and they can be sued for being damaged. That's one amendment. The second is the amendment that they will be compensated for the increased pension this year, because they have damages. And the third amendment is related to the impact assessment, why wait 2.g. for the assessment of the impact of this law, this is an important law with both financial and social, especially from the social assessment of how people, people live, from this social aspect, why we have to wait 2 years, the impact assessment should have been before and should continue to work because this is both the obligation of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166288	We are now going to the 3rd debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic and Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166289	Dear Ministers with Associates, the Honorable President of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, here we are today after what, a year and a half, we are talking again about referendums even though the minister almost didn't mention them in his presentation or maybe he didn't even mention them at all, but actually the story is about the referendum. I am sorry that my colleagues who spoke here before me, I know that they will not say anything afterwards, nothing about a referendum that should have happened because it was fair, it was a referendum on the Istanbul Convention, so Plenkovic stole two referendums, two referendums, he stole a referendum for a better election law, so the people decided, he stole the referendum means against or for cancelling the Istanbul Convention, and now here we come to the third referendum, and unfortunately the third referendum cannot escape, his regrets, not ours, can't be avoided because 748 000 signatures have been collected, and I have to remind the respected minister and fellows and the entire Croatian public, that even in the past two referendums a sufficient number of signatures have been collected, meaning more than 385 000 as foreseen by the law. However, there are now interesting criteria, in those referendums before the minister gave the order to count and check each of the OIBs, each name which is illegible as if Croatian citizens could not sign, and yet here is the one pride that he has, yet he took a little flinch, and he said let's do it with this referendum, let's avoid the referendum, let's, let's let's let it go because it's more important that we have any authority than we don't have it. However, what I must do here, I must point out, and it is very important, this referendum of truth about Istanbul or for the cancellation of the Istanbul Convention, which unfortunately did not mention a colleague of Grmoi, who was not mentioned by his colleagues from the SDP, may actually be, but in another context, the HDZ people who were against Istanbul, must no longer speak of them, because they were established well by the head of the Plenkovic party, so that is now the subject that is not spoken of, he was the key to the destruction of Andrej Plenkovic and that you, colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ were the players, and we would tear down Andrej Plenkovic then, and today we are talking again here with HDZ, Plenkovic's minister, we are talking about reforming the pension system. For those of you who don't know, the Republic of Croatia today stands out 39 billion kuna, 39 billion kuna a year for pensions, 39 billion kuna for the sum of only 21 billion kuna, and 18 billion kuna is again taken from the state budget, about, I may have made a mistake in which 100 million kunas or billions, but that's about it. So, every year, we give up 18 more because there's no one to work and then we're doing system reform and instead of reform being what, a demographic reconstruction that the Prime Minister here from this place didn't say a word yesterday, not a single word, because that's the only way we have a workforce tomorrow, the only way. Today in the Republic of Croatia for a pensioner for 1,12 workers about, about, something little more, you will say has now increased a little, and the river yesterday by, increased by the number of workers for the size of Osijek, only he doesn't know that Osijek doesn't have 100,000 inhabitants, but 65-70 000 people, that people have moved out, so a little bit more. Mostly not enough and instead of working on a demographic restoration that we have a workforce tomorrow and that we have a saved pension system, someone thinks that we can extend our working life to 67th, and then we'll work for life, and then we'll keep people with disabilities and old people, senile old people working, if it's normal, I really don't know if it's normal, instead of going to build a house from the ground, so let's improve the demographic structure of our country by the right measures, if there are billions of kunas for the rehabilitation of the shipyard, and there's obviously not talking about other things where money is being thrown away, and then there can be some things for young Croatian families who want to have children, but there are not, but it's easier for someone to think that we can extend the working age 2. Let's go on, when we talk about the pension system, we have to mention pension funds, we have money, so the famous second pillar, what's interesting isn't all the states, not all the states introduced the second pillar, not Bulgaria, not Romania, not Hungary, not Slovakia, what they had, so they came out of the second pillar, until Slovenia and the Czech Republic didn't even come into a situation to ask. So we have two systems today, we have one system of globalism where when the World Bank says something we have to introduce it. Here, my colleague Schuker won't agree with me here because he knows what globalism is and he's not a sovereign, he's a globalist, but the sovereign state will say hello, so if something the World Bank imposes on me doesn't mean that it's good, here are these six countries, which are countries within the EU in which Andrej Plenkovic swears, they don't have another pension column. Let me explain a little bit to the citizens what this is about. It means what it's about. So the numbers are exact, maybe I'll make a little mistake because the numbers are changing. About today, there are slightly less than 100 billion kunas in the second pension column in the funds, of which 70% or something more means 70 billion kunas in approximately government bonds. Do I speak well, Minister? A circus. Now let's just figure out both colleagues and colleagues understand, so the pension funds bought state bonds and the state pays them interest every year on these government bonds of 2.3.5% depending on what bond. So are we normal? We gave them our money and we still pay them the annual interest they keep our money. And that's not all, we're still paying pension funds to function. They'll tell their colleague Schuker so they could buy bonds and Spain well, so they could, but this is just as crazy as buying Spanish bonds. Just as crazy. I repeat, the thing is simple 70 billion kunas have bought government bonds, we have government money, our money, and then more states, or we taxpayers, you citizens who watch this are paying 2.3.5% a year for keeping our money. So I'm going to repeat this truth that you all understand it, we're paying them to keep our money and it's greasy. Minister, is this true what I say we pay them? Here I'm asking you in the final word to answer me, is this true that we, here we need to see what the interest on which bond is, but let's say that the average 3% that we're 2.2.5.3 billion kunas are given annually to pension funds that keep our money. Wouldn't it be simpler if we hadn't invented those government bonds or pension funds and saved 2.5 billion kunas? And do you know how many Croatian families, young Croatian families, could finance the education and education of new unborn Croatian children today? Hundreds of thousands. And instead of having kids, having workers and having a saved pension system, what do we have? What do we have? We have pension funds that we give 2.5.3 billion kuna a year. So, the thing is extremely clear is that, like all questions, are you going to be a sovereign today, and when I say sovereign, I mean whether you're going to protect your people's interests and your country's interests, and that's your job, and that's why you're paid a lot. It is the work of all of us here in this highest home of the Croatian people. Or are you going to be a globalist and then look only at Brussels, watch their dictatorship, watch what they will charge us and hope as our Prime Minister Plenkovic that we may end up in some comfortable Brussels or Washington chair. So, I beg you for the sake of the Croatian people try whatever it is you don't all have to be a little more sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166290	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166291	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, the minister talked about everything, and at least what was happening with the initiative "67 is too much" and I expected that there was Minister Aladrovic, who is the progenitor of this reform, along with Minister Pavic to pour ashes and say, we were wrong to do so. But here we have heard praises from how pension reform was made, how wonderful and wonderful everything is. And clearly this pension reform that we have seen is the best proof that HDZ in power always has one goal, and that is to keep power at all costs. In this case, the reform that did not actually serve to preserve the votes of privileged pensions, read the defence votes, and that was very clear. And few of them apparently were prevented by HDZ from rebelling citizens who did not want this reform to live in that form, and that is, what is seen is that these 750,000 signatures were also signatures against pensions under special regulations or preferential pensions. It is simply very clear that the pension system if we do not change it and if we do not remove all those pensions that are not related to work, that the pension system will have problems and that it will continue to be burdened with all those problems that were in the past and that there will be even more in the future. I asked the minister clearly to explain to the citizens what it was like with those 40 billion kunas that were scaring us during the campaign against the referendum initiative. We kept saying that these 40 billion lies that HDZ tried to place to scare citizens not to put their signature on the referendum initiative. It is explained then that without those 40 billion we will fail and that the pension system will fail, that it will not, will not be, and that lie has simply been tried to sell to the citizens, but the citizens have not fallen for it. What they forgot to say is that Croatia will pay its pensioners by 2040 to about 1.3 billion kuna and 1,300 billion kuna respectively, and that 40 billion is only 3% of the total amount, so if it is 3%, it is clear to you that it will not bring down a pension system like Pavić, Aladrovic, speaking to the media. According to Minister Aladrovic's statement in total, while he was in the position of HZMO director, it was a statement that the overall net positive effect of this pension reform is 6.7 billion kuna, so we turn it into these 1,300 billion that we need to pay off only 5 proms. Funny and tragic at the same time, because the entire circus that was carried out was only done to prevent the reform of the pension system and to separate pensions under special regulations from the pension system. In 2014, when the Pension Insurance Act was passed, when the border was put on 67 years old in 2038, we sat down with the unions, agreed on what and how to do, agreed on working conditions that should be achieved in order to go into retirement at 67 years of age, the one who started working early at 19 when he was 60 years old and 41 years of employment to go to regular retirement, so pension without pensioning because until then you were retired because you were 5 years old to that limit of 65. We also agreed at that time on a fair penalization, the closer you get to 40 years of internship, the smaller your penalization. The HDZ has gone completely the other way, the pensioning is much sharper independent of age, but it is independent of the insurance training and it is absolutely unfair because it is obviously not the same whether you are 5 years before retirement or a year, you have the same pension and that pensionation was much, much more acceptable. And because they did not want to follow the recommendation of the European Commission which was very clear, which is that equal workers and defence pensions, that pensions should be removed from the pension system according to special regulations or preferential pensions, that they should satisfy the European Commission and ensure their chairs in Brussels have come under the initiative to move the retirement age. The citizens made it very clear what they were thinking. At the same time as the Government gave amendments to this law in the procedure of amending the Law, I also made amendments to the Pension Insurance Act which the President of the Assembly did not today have a united debate so that we could cross the arguments of one and the other versions of the law, because in this law, I made very clear that amendments to the law need to be re-emerged into retirement because it is the only thing that can ensure that the pension system is secure and that we can achieve an increase in labour pensions between 10% and 20%. And that's the goal of separation of pensions, to allow the pension system to breathe through. Because what the government now boasts about is that increased pensions are de facto harmonising with the cost of living and the increase in wages, so it's not an increase in pensions. An increase in pensions is when you decide that they go 10% or 20% above what is legally guaranteed. In order for this to happen, the system must be completely removed from this section that is related to specific laws. Because what is it? Special laws are basically a financial compensation to all those who gave or did something for the state and had nothing to do with the pension system. This means that we have passed laws here in the assembly that will bring certain categories of citizens certain pension incomes, but these incomes are not related to work and pension. Part of them worked and had a job, and they should be recognised in retirement and paid out of contributions, and everything else should be paid out of the budget. This was passed in 2013 by law, the HDZ immediately came to power to hand over the defence population immediately abolished, not only that, but also increased other defence rights, so that an increased minimum pension base, a reduction of pension decision was abolished, a double internship was recognised during defence participation and pension rights were extended for HVO. And it will destroy the pension system. This increase of rights and the awakening of defence pensions. We, 25 years after the war, have new defenders, which is a unique example in the world. What should also be said is that in April of this year, the average defence pension was 5,618 kuna, while the average working pension was 2,342 kuna. And that's what hurts, that's the injustice in the pension system that hurts. By amending the laws I have referred to the Assembly, I want to make amends and some other injustices in the pension system, which is a question of family pensions. It's something that's more important than what's now trying to put the PR spin into the issue of a national pension that has nothing to do in the pension system at all but needs to be in the social system. Family pension is something that is an injustice in the pension system and what needs to be done that when we have two pensioners to inherit 50% of his pension when that pensioner dies. And that would be the right reform to correct injustices in the pension system. Another cost that is now very low in the pension system, which amounts to around 540 million kuna, will rise to a huge figure is the issue of a pension allowance or guaranteed defence pension. When you retire, and you're not a defender, you've worked your working life and you get a pension of 2,300 kuna, if you're a defender, you'll get another 500 kuna guaranteed defense pensions. By 2025, it is estimated that this will cost us another 10 billion kuna because 150,000 people are currently working, and it has defensive status. All these costs are in the pension system that are below the grain and have nothing to do with pensions that are related to work. The transparency of the pension system is the only guarantee that pensions in Croatia grow and that the pension system is sustainable. Without it, the peace system will not be able to withstand the challenges ahead. It is interesting that the government first started by explaining that 40 billion kuna is something that is huge for us to destroy the pension system, after which Minister Pavić and Aladrovic began to say that this is not some kind of cost, we will settle it in the long run, but we will compensate it by extending it and making it possible to work for up to 68 years, and in this way we will compensate for these 40 billion with an increased amount of contributions. And everyone was surprised when the government pulled those laws yesterday. Now what? 40 billion will crash the system, and then it won't, so now we're gonna compensate for going into retirement at 68 years old and where is the truth? Obviously, neither, nor the third, holds water and that is not a solution that would satisfy citizens who clearly ask whether our pension system is sustainable. The government has withdrawn these packages of laws and I must say that I am appalled by the way it was done because it is obvious that the government has been acting irresponsiblely in an area that is dependent on the everyday lives of workers. The workers are not the trying rabbits of the minister, what you did and what you do is not good and will not lead to what should be done, which is that people stay longer in the world of work and that in the world of work citizens deserve their pension and that pension is appropriate. The peace system without fundamental changes, without moving from the system of preferential pensions, will not be sustainable. And Mr. Schucker can say that here now the SDP has extended to 67 years, and here the HDZ returns to 65 years, it won't be trusted by anyone, that there's no pressure from citizens with 750,000 signatures, HDZ would never do that. It buys defence peace with the rights of defenders, destroys the pension system, and there is no courage and political courage to create order in the system, to remove preferential pensions from the system and to allow such changes to be made in the pension system that would allow all workers working in Croatia to have working pensions to be 10 to 20% higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166292	The next club of representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Amnesia can be such an interesting thing, especially political amnesia. And I'm so glad I got a chance to speak for the club right after my colleague Mrsic, who was the minister who proposed work until 67. And today I really can't understand that things like this happen and people say that nothing happened and that it wasn't them who did it. What stings me like that the most is why didn't a civil initiative happen then? What was it then, what was the time? It was a time of negative trends in Croatia, everything was going down, one general apathy, no investment, wage reduction, crisis, pensions of the weak, therefore there was no civil initiative. Interesting thing. The initiative is now emerging at this time when the same law that was adopted at the time of 2014 was improved, when certain injustices in it were corrected, okay, there was this part about penalization, that di was more negative but in any case, generally looking at and comparing the conditions between I and II. It enters into that former law and in this therefore improving corrected injustice. What are we supposed to do now? A sufficient number of signatures have been collected, trade unions have launched an initiative, citizens have accepted it and have come into a situation whether to accept these terms or spend money on a referendum. Well, a reasonable man, reasonable people are aware that this referendum would succeed. So who wouldn't vote, go to a referendum and say I want to work until 60, 65 years till any time? Of course, money would be spent, of course, that would drive people away together and the government's decision would be very rational and reasonable to me. Today we can extract figures and arguments that are then put on the table when the law is passed that this will cost Croatia 45 billion kuna at the time when the law is started and probably will. He probably will, but then we talked about applying the law in 2033, before 2038, after that in 2033, by then he would still believe several times. I'm personally sorry it ever happened. I'm sorry that it didn't work out then, and it said ok, we're back to 65, correcting the injustice brought by the Kukuriku Government and that most of it and we're returning that part there, but at the same time, we're allowing people who want to deal with the employer to continue working not until 68, until 70. I have talked here several times about the problem of the work of doctors who are not in Croatia, where we are debilitating, where the face has to jump on the ground and leave retirement. Okay, one part of it is solved by that law when it is possible, or by the applicable law, when it is possible for people who are retired to be able to work for 4 hours. It is already part of the repair in this work and today to attack acceptance of the will of citizens, I find it unreasonable. Whoever's doing this, what we're discussing today, this proposal that the government has accepted and passed on to the Parliament is the will of citizens, people. So I don't know if there's anyone in this assembly, in politics that doesn't support the will of the citizens? She's like that. Who are we to break the citizens' will? If the citizens want it, they have the right to do so, why don't they give their opinion? Whether it creates some problems in the future or not, you'll see it, but I'm saying, maybe twice more that same law will change. So it's absolutely pointless for our club to discuss whether or not we accept this proposal from the government. We accept it because Croatian citizens have thus declared themselves because we estimate that this referendum would certainly have the same result and that it would cost Croatian citizens a significant part of the money spent on the referendum and would irritate additional people. There is no reason not to accept such a proposal and to say that the government has acted wisely, that the government listens to the voice of citizens and accepts what citizens want in these situations. So our club will absolutely support this proposal and the will of the citizens, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166294	Thank you very much. Next up is the Club of Representatives of that SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166295	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I must say here today that this debate or this bill would never have occurred if one big one had said the initiative and the interest of Croatian citizens had not manifested through the collection of signatures and it was one of the most significant numbers and the greatest numbers that any initiative for the referendum had succeeded in gathering, it was about 750 000 of our citizens who had collected the signatures and told the Government a lot. The governments gave the thumb down, they told the government not only what they thought about the proposal about retirement and the number of years it takes for a man to retire. They sent a very simple message to the government about pension reform and the amount of pensions, and we have to take care of that because citizens who are watching us today, over a million of them who are retired, cannot live with dignity until their work. The number of signatures was collected because of one revolt as politics is being conducted in Croatia today, as HDZ, Prime Minister Plenkovic, President Grabar Kitarovic refers to Croatian citizens and simply never so many signatures would have been collected if any of these people and their families had confidence and believed in what we have heard here today from the labour minister. Look at the very, very clear messages of citizens and, on the other hand, very vague, confusing and panic messages of HDZ and authorities who overnight as if nothing had happened, as if they had not spent millions and millions of kunas of budget money thrown into the wind to explain and intimidate Croatian citizens not to sign the referendum. They say so we will listen to Croatian citizens, we will listen and we will respect the number of signatures here as if nothing had happened. E happened, and I think it should be said that a lot of things are happening in our country and will happen until things are back to normal and until Croatian citizens get the government of the Republic of Croatia that will trust them and that will be able to implement reforms and bring about laws that will bring them well-being. This is not the government of Andrej Plenkovic for the last three years, nor has the Government of Mr Oreshkovic been able to do so before and everyone sees it in the Republic of Croatia except for Mr Plenkovic, who gave a speech here yesterday as if it were some super-developed Western European country as if we were in Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands and not unfortunately that we have a situation like we do today in the Republic of Croatia. And this situation is so that hundreds of thousands of our pensioners are starving today, today they're asking how they're going to collect money from day to day and buy the most basic supplies, how they're going to pay for the heating for the winter that's going. We're going to talk about this under a proposal for a social care law when we look at how much it helps those needy citizens, and that for ten years and more, the amount that has been given to buy heat to those people who need that money as if the price of wood hadn't changed in the last 10 and over years, that amount is always the same. And as if they don't have people in power who don't have feelings at all or care how our pensioners live. Mirovina's five average age fell below 40% of the average salary, the worst thing is that the minister here is talking about percentages. Says 11% of pensions have increased since the start of the term, 15% is the lowest and does not say what is the money behind it. So when you see that it's a three-year increase of 150 kunas or more, then basically Croatian citizens with the right reasons and justifiable questions, so what are these people talking about, they realize that an increase in pensions of 40, 50 kunas that go on an annual level doesn't solve anything or help anyone. That it means possibly one day less toothache and fear but the moon gentlemen has 30 days not just one day. So it's kind of amazing here to listen and colleagues from HDZ, so now here's the story of something colleague Hrg, going back to the past, talking about oblivion, like it's the only thing he does. So I don't care what happened 20 or 15 or 7 years ago or 5 years ago, I'm wondering how our fellow citizens are going to survive tomorrow and how we're going to help them. And the way HDZ does it, you can't see the help. So here we can accept the initiative, that 65 years ago in this situation in which Croatia is now located is something else compared to 5 years ago. And relations both materially and each other and budgetally, if we will, I'm looking at Mr. Shucker, 25 billion kuna more revenue now in the state budget than in 2015. How do you distribute that? So I'm looking at this proposal yesterday given by Prime Minister Plenkovic of 6% to everyone and he's gone to Brussels and he thinks he's solved the problem. No, you haven't solved it. The part about which we talked about increasing personal deductions to 5,000 kuna allows everyone less taxes and higher net incomes every month. And that is the difference between what our citizens expect and in the pension system, justice and justice that all in this Croatia can benefit from economic growth and what HDZ offers, that only those whose votes they count on and that is one part of the people they have arrested in the last three years and the most obvious example is this when we talk about elections at directoral posts in ministries where probably all assistants will be taken care of. We have two Croatians, we have one that has gone to the budget and they have all the others who are funding it and because of the system that HDZ has implemented, they cannot live normally. And, of course, when we talk about this whole law that I'm saying again, just one part of the whole problem that HDZ didn't want to understand, and eventually he ran into him and hit his head against the wall. Because I say when 750 thousand people sign, and if it was a longer period, and it could be better organised, it would probably be signed by any other citizen of our country. Then you get a very clear message of what the citizens think of you. And then, as from fairy tale, they make those reviews of Prime Minister Plenkovic and today the minister here, Aladrovic, who says it's great in Croatia, that they've done great things and that everyone sees it. No, nobody sees that. Not a single citizen of these 750 thousand, btw. and I am among them, when Mr. Schucker here says that he is glad that the government has accepted me wrong that he did not sign that referendum, what no one from HDZ signed, what the minister, what the minister did not sign the referendum, what Prime Minister Plenkovic did not sign that referendum, so much as they listened to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and what they think about the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So it's not politics to do something when you're forced, it's a useful and good policy for citizens to do something to make them feel better and to understand what you need to do to make them feel better. This extorted policy, like yesterday, what Prime Minister Plenkovic did with salaries or, for example, what is now going on with the Pension Insurance Act, is a colleague and colleague-in-law who brought us here and where we are, who brought us that average pensions are below 40% of the average salary, that people live with below 100 kuna, with 90.00 kn and less, 80,00 kn average pensions per day, that the lowest pensions, the lowest pensions receive and below 2000,00 kn, receive an old income of over 3 hundred, means every third pensioner, that is to be talked about by colleagues and colleagues, means that people living today with 50-60,00 kn per day have to pay both heating and directors and buy food and clothing, so how is it possible? And then here to fire that, if a result had been made and it had been raised 15% compared to what was before, so it should not be said out of shame, it should not be said out of shame. So until those pensions are raised by at least a third you shouldn't say that you've done something about what these people won't live for then God knows how well, but at least they'll survive for a month, not that they have to think like this from today to tomorrow and of course this subject can't be so tight and can't deal with just what we've signed, what we accept to return to 65. And I don't mind people doing things that are longer than that, and I'm a little worried about the honest reaction of employers who think someone with a 65-year-old will. After 3rd year. be on their burden, like he'll do much, much worse work if he can work, if he wants to work, than he did at 64. And 10 months. So there's again the balling between the government of the Republic of Croatia and one interested group that looks only at its own interest, and it's not clear to me that they don't realize that by investing in the education of these people, not just at 65, but in 60 and 55. and adaptations to the labour market have led to people working more efficiently, perhaps at 65. It's who doesn't invest in himself when he's 55. So it's a very complex subject to be seriously discussed, about which we need to find a solution for our citizens, but the conclusion of everything, the basis of everything,... All of it is that people need to be assured that they can live, that at the age of three, they don't think in their retirement about whether they will have 15 days, and then 15 days will depend on their families or on their social, social, someone, some help, Caritas or something else. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, that's, that's what the legislator should deal with here, which is what the government should deal with, and it's amazing to me, and I'm going to say once again, that out of 25 billion kunas more tax revenues than we have now than we have in 2015, 25 billion kuna pensioners get crumbs or almost nothing, they almost get nothing, and on that side, the government's priorities are unfortunately proven completely guilty. They've opened up the possibility of another 3,000 new defenders reporting legally on the 25th. After the war and that they are enjoying privileged pensions tomorrow, this is what HDZ has made possible, again in the way I just told you, only by choosing those who assume to vote for them because they think they control that population through Mr Djakic, president of HVIDR, and we see that they are very skilled in political struggles all the time, but it is abnormal that 25g. After the war in the Republic of Croatia, we have a new 3,000 defenders who are likely to become privileged pensioners tomorrow. It's a population of those who are 25. Later, they remember to apply to the defence population, which is the population the HDZ is ruling and which the HDZ gives out of the budget, literally gives, and on the other hand to pensioners who have acquired an honest pension by their 40th, 35th, 35th, 35th. Unfortunately, they stay, he wouldn't even say crumbs, he doesn't stay almost nothing. And whoever here thinks and whoever's watching us thinks it's possible to live in the Republic of Croatia today with less than £2,000, and I said how many Croatian citizens with that money live, let them vote for HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic and Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, since these elections are the first, who doesn't think to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166296	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, look, this assembly best tells how much representatives are interested in pensions and pension issues, so let it talk about whatever anyone wants. However, all of these six negotiators, I don't count on a colleague of the Hrga, so the six clubs that spoke before me, are the signatories of initiative 67 is too much. So, we here today, if we talk about the measure of things, we have things that this initiative was looking for, so it would be at least correct if you signed something to support it. The second thing, is today, if it's already such a criticism of what the government has done by not accepting the indicators, because look, we can tell me that 11.5% of the pension increase in three years means nothing, but take nominally when you have a budget for 2019 and take the implementation of the 2018 budget and you'll see that it's a nominal cost for pensions, actually pension expenses, I won't talk about the cost, is for a billion kuna higher. And that's a fact, that's a fact. You can say when in opposition it's a little bit, and you know what was done when you were in power. Don't forget that you then took 4 and a half billion HZMO funds that were to come in the next period, don't forget that you changed the law by which you translated soldiers and police officers into the first pillar and they saved their savings in the second pillar of 4.5 billion kuna suddenly to save the budget. Why? So because you've been under the measures of this fiscal imbalance, the excessive deficit, and you've saved the budget, and that's the money that's concessively that these people were going to retire from the second pillar to the state budget, i.e. for paying off those pensions. So you've taken four and a half billion in processing with some income that's, like, 6.7 billion in future pensioners' incomes. That's the facts. Look, everyone swears to the defenders, but unfortunately the left side of the assembly very often may be using the defenders unskillly for some reckonings, and especially those of us who have been talking after this speaker for years should be careful what we say and when we are in opposition and when we are in power, because if we keep to some profession, some experience, etc. Then we must be consistent. So as far as these defense pensions are concerned, I simply say that when I speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that's what I said to my colleague Mrsic, forgive me for apostropheming you, but you were then a minister to you too when you proposed that separation law. And that's when I said it wasn't people who fell out of the sky, from Mars, that's people who were in the world of work, those are people who paid pensions to a certain level, and then they retired, and we said by law on the rights of Croatian defenders that defenders shouldn't be below that and that percentage, and I'm not saying that it's blasphemous to even mention the pensions of disabled, dead and missing Croatian defenders. And it's not at all questionable that this is analytically shown in the HZMO report, so you'll see that it's not some kind of massive billion as it is said here, it's not. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, if we're going to watch it fair and square, you have two kinds of pensions. You have one which was achieved by Croatian defenders on the basis of saying civil rights and those pensions are an average of 2.880 and more kunas and you have that other group of pensions that are pensions of Croatian wartime disabled, families of missing and dead Croatian defenders, but look, no one mentions that we still have 11,000 Partisan fighters, 11,000. I listened carefully to all your pearls. I didn't throw a word at you. So we simply have to react on behalf of the HDZ Club because of the facts that are what they are, whether someone likes them or not. I would be happier if we had shown one above all social responsibility today and if we had said ok, HDZ had returned retirement in 65 years, it accepted the will and desire of Croatian citizens to do so. We signed it, but let's talk about some issues about how to improve that pension system in the future. Because look we must be aware that from what is paid to Croatian pensioners and what we will collect from the foundation of the contribution to pension insurance G by the Croatian budget will always be great. Why? Because even when we talk about demographics and when we talk about general Croatia will unfortunately not have 2, 3 or 5 years 2 million 102 million employees. Because if we had that, then the relationship between the pensioners and those employees would be 1:60 and 1:70 and then that picture would be different. But were we ready today to talk about anything other than ammunition that was soaking into the water overnight, and that was ammunition for those five laws where one rappelling fire by the minister, by the government, and so on? Are we ready to talk at all about how staying in the world of the labour market in Croatia should look tomorrow, and which of those more difficult professions can work after 60 years and more? There are those, but that's the country's biggest employer, who can work after 65 years. So these are topics that we may have discussed today, topics that we may have had to address to the minister, and some working groups in which these amendments to the law should generally go in the Republic of Croatia. But based on the fact that at this point we have a million and 250, 60 thousand pensioners and we have a million 583 employees. And that's the real problem when we talk about amounts, when we talk about nominal retirement. And a few other colleagues and colleagues, don't forget that the average salary in Croatia in the last year, for a year and a half has been growing and as a consequence we have on the labour market, which is a lack of labour. Many salaries are not the result that the employer would pay for as a result of the work, but simply that. Or another piece of information to tell you because it counts in retirement, the average pays there somewhere in 2001, 2002. It's practically today when we get this data in nine months it might be slightly smaller than 7,000 kuna, and not to say what the average salary was in '92, '93. And now you need to get it in, get to some basics that you're going to be weighting, indexing, etc. in order to calculate from that percentage the basis of which pensions are determined and how real that salary can be, etc. And if I wasn't talking, remember that '93 stuff. The year we removed four zeros, when inflation was over 3,000 percent, so that's all of our problems that we unfortunately have and that we're facing. And the situation in the average pension at this point is precisely the result, but it is definitely that we will have to lead the tax policy in the coming periods on the one hand to cover the costs of pensions that we have defined by the Law on Special Regulations, as well as to cover insufficient pension funds and pension growth that should be practically monitored by wage growth. And when someone says, you didn't raise your pensions, you settled your pensions. You know what, Stefa, Juru, Stipu, Bara, Janju cares what we call it, it's important to him to get 50, 100, 150 or 200 kuna when the pension grows higher, it matters to him. And since we're going to fight politically here and say that's it, but I told my colleagues and colleagues someone says good is not an increase, but that synchronization in 2019 is a billion kuna. These are the facts and these are the ministers who sit here together with Zdravko Maric, the finance minister and the entire government must be provided because they are the ones who have to say we can pay so much and so much. If we had enough political strength and courage to discuss it here, then that story would be different. Not hitting on what anybody did in what period because I guarantee you that every government, and those who were in the government, know it very well, is the same to you as at home as they wouldn't give to their child if they did. So the same story, which the government and which the government minister would not give higher salaries, higher pensions, higher social benefits if he had, is simply a living fact. But unfortunately, we don't stick to the one I brought from the house, and I hope many, too, never do and don't say what you don't want them to do to you and tell you. We're unfortunately here because of our daily political needs very often, and today there's been this, we're hitting on things that just aren't good. And this is the topic of life. Why? Because every one of us at home has a pensioner and everyone knows exactly what it looks like. Now run, sign something and say, you know, we got confused a few years ago, but now we think it should be. And to say that someone when... HDZ returns to 65 years, whether someone likes it or not. We will probably vote this out on Friday, and it will appear that HDZ has determined by amending the Pension Insurance Act to retire at 65 years of age and 15 years of training. ... Mr. Nuts, you see when people get nervous, that means you hit them in the nerves. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It will therefore appear that the HDZ government and coalition partners parliamentary representatives of HDZ and coalition partners passed a law where they returned the fact that they retired from Croatia at 65 years of age, corrected the injustice that the SDP and its coalition partners made at 13.12.2013 in this House when they passed the law that in Croatia at 67 years of age. And those are the facts. And he can say whatever anyone wants, someone forced you to. So how can your people force you? You're just listening to what your people want. And that's a fact. See, this is what I like, so this jam means we did the right thing. My colleagues and colleagues, the Djuro Popiach then spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club said when we came to power we'd get it back for 65 years, it's in your record. On Friday, when we vote, we'll return it to 65 years. And therefore, let go as much as you like because look, the minister is very funny, and my colleague Mrsic is very funny and I like to discuss with him. My colleague Mrsic and you were supposed to laugh when you took those 4.5 billion to your successors who would now consider increasing their pensions because they would have had 4.5 billion higher incomes. You took it from them to patch up the budget. It was the payments of our soldiers, and probably some of them are even defenders and our officers you're so fond of that, forgive my expression, that they should separate their pensions. You did it, you took the money, Minister Aladrovic and the future ministers, that's a fact because these money is being deposited in the budget when these people who paid are going to retire and getting a pension by another process. But then I told you here about this speaker that I understand you, you need to patch up the budget, and what I don't approve of you is another pair of shoes, and that's what I'm telling you right now. But I haven't heard a single word today that you've said what is now evident that by 280,000 pensioners have grown by more than 3%. That's what the minister said in the opening section, by amending this law made, no matter what you say, but those people with the lowest pensions got that bigger pension, that's a fact. So, colleagues and colleagues, you were running to sign something, and now you're going to vote against it, so you cheated on Croatian citizens, that at the moment you were painting and signing, you weren't being honest because if you were being honest, then you have to vote for this law, you have to vote for it because you told Croatian citizens, we've been confused and we've brought 67 years, and now we finally come to your senses and we support you in being 65 years. Now, colleagues and colleagues, if you don't press the green button on Friday, that means you haven't told the Croatian citizens the truth, that's a fact because here the minister in the bill did nothing but what you signed you wanted. Therefore, we expect on Friday if you want to be honest with Croatian citizens to press this green button and unanimously pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166298	Thank you. A colleague named Mirsic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you want to do this and it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166299	Article 238 got hurt because my colleague Shucker wasn't telling the truth. I didn't sign it. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...so when you're telling the truth then you're telling the truth. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166300	Please don't throw it out of the bench. The next club of representatives is the HNS, and time will be shared by respected representatives Curaj and Batinic. First of all, Honorable Representative Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166301	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Very short intro. We are facing a really simple change on the basis of a referendum of a citizens' initiative that had five items, five items are changing. What's most important when we speak in that part of what sounded most like it, is the conditions for retirement. Otherwise, we have three standard conditions, old age, early age and long-term insurance pensions. In particular, it means now that this proposal does not go back to the old as counterpart Shuker said it is going back to the old one because it was 67 just moved the limit when it would apply. And that means today's retirement for our citizens is 65 years of life and a minimum of 15 years of internship. Early age is when you have 35 or more internships, but 60 to 65 years of life or a long-term insurance company that has 60 or more to 65 years of life, and a minimum of 40 years or 41 years of retirement. And as for the reduction in the rate of penalization from 0.3% to 0.2% and the last thing is the extension of the transitional period from 2026 to 2030 when equalising men and women with regard to the conditions of obtaining the right of retirement. That's what was in the referendum, that's what it is today. What I want to say when we speak, I mean the subject of pension insurance and the Pension Insurance Act and in general about our pensions is inexhaustible for one simple reason because we already know today that this system has been unsustainable for many years, that it doesn't work. Why? Because every year there's a patch of holes and a difference in budgets and not small funds, that's billions and billions of kunas every year that we have to put on. The first and basic thing I said in those discussions before I would like to make that clear division of what insurance rights are, out of pension payments, and out of special regulations. One to separate from the other, not diminishing any of the rights, but let it be made clear. Then it might begin to correct the injustice that someone who has special regulations minimum, so let's make it that defense pension, make it that 2500, 2600, 2,700 kuna, but... a person has a year, two, three, five years of internship. Unfortunately, a person who has maybe more days, but let them have as many as 100 days on the battlefield, and let's say he has 30 years of internships when he goes by the general regulations he falls short of special and then reads the defense. These two men have the same pension, one has been paying 30 years, the other 5. Why, how? So one is retirement, the other is compensation and let it be what it is and that must be a clear difference. Don't put it all together. Where did the problem with the pension system arise? First by nationalising HZMO, we nationalized it. Its basic function as any insurance company is to make some contributions to the funds to be paid. All of his property, and it's not small, all of his shares, property has crossed into the hands of the state. Today, the Ministry of Property manages them. And he entered with all his amounts that were capitalised savings in the budget then in the early 1990s, everything moved to the state and that's why we're paying no small amount out of the budget today. I don't know what year it is. 19 billion or how many kunas, almost half of what we need. We dig holes, those holes are created by someone. The famous famous famous takeovers of the 1990s when a lot of companies went bankrupt so let's not put them on the labour market, let's send them to retirement, so today we have a negative ratio and a burdened pension system based on intergenerational solidarity. These are some basic problems. Of course, there's no magic wand, you can't just get rid of it. What we have been saying and what I have been saying in various meetings and what we have been able to agree together, I certainly welcome when we leave both pillars to retire that we can withdraw part of the capitalised savings funds, that that supplement can be applied that goes from both pillars or just one pillar to choose, it wasn't and that's why it had to go into these changes because you had a huge injustice that because someone was born a month later, I think it was '67. The year in question went into retirement he had one of the benefits of working hours and did not get an add-on to the total amount but did not get either of those 25% or went from both pillars if he had to go by force of the law to go to both pillars. We fixed it the way we suggested, not with that first version, but as we agreed. That's when they said the same thing, don't penalize people, reward them. I want my country to allow me to work as long as I want it now, but I want to stay on the labour market system for longer than 65 years, but with the consent of the employer. Is according to what was now so withdrawn in the procedure it went according to the will of the workers you can stay up to 68. And now we have these two things, we have deficiting occupations where there are no adequate substitutes on the labour market, where it's being hailed, and we have those you forgive me for saying, we'd like to get rid of as soon as possible. And you know when some of these public systems work, severance systems and then offer people to retire early, offer severance, you know who takes them, those who find jobs somewhere else that are quality. And you know who stays? One who knows nothing and doesn't apply to the labour market and can't find... So this fundamental injustice is not solved by this law, that those who know, can and will be valorized and left with the possibility of staying on the labour market if they want to, if the employer needs it, regardless of whether it is public, state or private. It's fashion. Here you fall under that password where someone will do an extremely difficult and physical job of maltene to the death, it's not and it must never be. But for certain jobs that are not physically demanding, and we lack an expert, we lack a professor of mathematics, we lack any segment where we simply have a labour market and the education system are not in sync, where people today work in different ways because there is no one else. Let's make it possible for... to develop the economy and by paying more money. Of course, the goal is to keep the system sustainable, to make as many and as many workers who work pay their pensions as possible. People need to be educated financially, which means what kind of pensions they're going to have now, which is with the third pillar, what kind of savings it is, which is what they get a little bit of that way to open that story for the next generation in 10, 20, 30 years, because this way won't go any further. And just once and for all, to clarify about these famous preferential pensions and those 632 pensions of constitutional judges, Supreme Judges and former parliamentary deputies whatever they do to us may be such a feeling of discomfort and injustice in this society, but as a state, nothing is crucial to you, to know what compensation is for certain things and certain categories, and what pension is because we do not operate by the principles of insurance companies, and that should be retirement. You pay for the future, money capitalizes and gets extra value. Someone's working with that money. We don't have that today. That's why this system is the way it is, so it's important what we've been saying all along, to strengthen the role of the second pillar and strengthen the role of the third pillar and to provide people with such an existential minimum and it's very doubtful if it's 2,500 kuna today or 3,000 kuna, it's hard to live both and even more. And what's the goal is to give them a choice so that they can think for themselves about their future, so if they don't want their problem, the state gives you a certain minimum. Here's a thank you. Comrade Batinić will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166302	Thank you. We still have a respected MP, Batinic, to continue on behalf of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166303	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, according to what counterpart Curaj has been saying, are simply being imposed not only now but also back in the last ten years, the question of how much is this pension insurance system based on intergenerational solidarity sustainable in today's times? I think that's the key question. I'm going to take a picture from the past when I started working there in the '80s some of my colleagues retired and then there was some calculation you're going to get 75% salary, 75% of the current salary. The ratio of the pensioners, the ratio of the employees it has varied for years and it is one of the factors that tells us how vulnerable this system is. And especially the latest data, although positive trends have been backwards for the past two years, the ratio is increasing, but the system remains as such unsustainable. We had a report last week on the operation of HZMO where very plastically shows the amount of income, the amount of income from the insurance payments, and how much revenue from the state budget to cover the gaps or to be able to pay the pensions. This system is not only unsustainable but deeply unfair. I'm going to explain why I think it's unfair, simply because when you look at the statistical amount of pensions on average, it's the same trend falling, which is logic, which is pure mathematics, that's one thing. And secondly, I think it's unfair because it's wrongly unfair to express myself more precisely simply for reasons because there's always some perception in the public that privileged pensions or pensions under special regulations are those that reduce real pensions paid on the basis of work. No one mentions 30 years is the average payment, and retirement deadlines etc. They're quite disputable. We supported it when we were in the coalition for up to 67 years simply for reasons because mathematics that is identical to today's mathematics when we had this law, when represented by Minister Pavić nothing important changed, believing that it was a step towards improving the system or to starting to create this system sustainable. And now the fact is what my colleague Schuker was saying, strange things happen, social Democrats kind of prolong that you have to work longer, the democrats are shrinking, it's a bit of a political paradox. But let's let it go now. I think we need first of all to focus on the sustainability of this system that is now unsustainable. My proposal is, and that's what we're talking about in the inter-party coalition that we should have these pensions according to privileged regulations, even though that pension system is being entered into and agricultural pensions paid for on an annual basis, I don't think I know how much or the purchase of internships, etc., means we can't live in the past, but when we're talking about something we need to know very well what we're talking about to get out of, practically every pensioner sees how much pension he's made on the basis of his participation or the payment of contributions from work, and how much is that difference that financed by the state? Believe me, many would be surprised by that. Expenses 40 billion, payments somewhere in 41, of course expenses, and with the basis of insurance 22 billion are... So are 18 billion preferential pensions? Well, of course not. In this context, it is unfair, so more transparent, and it will become increasingly clear to everyone. And of course it expects, although it is a great challenge to think about this system of intergenerational solidarity, whether to increase isolation by a second pillar precisely for reasons because it is obviously such a trend that we must start thinking about ourselves because we cannot expect everything from the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166304	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the Independent Youth List, which will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166305	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow ministers, but they are working with the minister and will convey all these speeches, of course, will have the insight and debate we have. I would primarily start by amending any pension law based on analyses and whenever it is discussed about the sustainability of the system. And here during these discussions, we were listening to references where HDZ and the ruling coalition called SDP's former Milanovic government that they had increased the threshold to 67 years, but which was not used in this way as it was supposed to be proposed now with what was proposed, which was adopted at the end of last year by the HDZ government. And here we have to say that we now come to one paradox, accusing each other, here we are now listening to one of the Social Democrats other democrats, in the end I think they were 67 years old, but then we come back actually we have a people who through the civil initiative "67 is too much" said it too much for us. We simply can't imagine how long we've been working, especially those who have difficult working conditions. Often now talking about a pension through this time that's been happening over the past half of the year as it's been about the initiative I've been talking to people and one time it's stuck in my ear from one man working in a public sector that's been clear, not up to 67, let me work until 97 and don't ask for a pension from this country. But there are also those who do physically demanding jobs or those who endanger the health of 65 people. And then we need to ask the question, is there a certain age limit whether that's the criteria that are crucial in these discussions where we should say now, okay now that the government's analysis has been carried out under the pressure of the initiative is going to bring it back to 65 years. It will again be those who are not satisfied with 65, the government's representatives will not be satisfied when this is adopted because they had to give in, one headache remains. Fortunately, the elections are close, so all of this will be welcomed by the next government, and that's a truce. We have some truce now whether it will rule as a victory, whether the opposition will communicate as defeat is irrelevant. But what's left is that we go back to the people who are taking those pensions and the pensions they're taking. Which means if you retired from 63, 65, 67 any option if you receive the lowest pension that can't cover the cost of life. If we're talking about some average salary in Croatia, a share of almost 40% which is almost the lowest, only Ireland has lower, it shows that at any time you retire for most Croatian citizens who receive such low pensions simply the survival weight is too high. And then it happens to us that politicians most often communicate, young people go abroad, ask for their happiness in some other countries. And we forget about one category, and those who are about to retire, who are about to have that fight and who want to, are looking for a solution for themselves. Here I have recently read on a blog one of our countrymen who is in Germany, well explained the conditions for obtaining a pension and in fact everyone is trying to find just these five minimum years that will go to Germany, sacrifice themselves, their family, everything they have created all their lives just to achieve this minimum German pension that will provide them with a dignified age in Croatian conditions. And instead of talking about the successes, the defeats of the ruling or the opposition, we need to talk about an age that must be dignified. And this reform that has touched years would not even have been carried out, nor had it remained to ensure a decent age with a good number of Croatian citizens who are going to retire, some new models have to be sought if our pension at this rate becomes a social category, then we don't have a pension system, then we can abolish his pension funds and everything else and transfer it to the state budget, and then the state through the welfare centres will take care of citizens who are in retirement and cover their minimum cost of life like this, we have pensioners, we're always talking about too many and eventually these pensioners can't survive, and then we have a problem that we've relocated to local self-government, a number of mayors, primarily larger environments that every year about Christmas, about some other chance of retirementers give them a certain amount, so that we've re able to make a certain holiday of life, which we don't realize that we can't really be able to be able to do this much with any kind of political reform. Then one article would catch up with me, especially with my eyes and my senses, especially with the 2018 amendments, where at the end of this proposal, which is before us, says that the Government will make an impact assessment in the next 2nd g. from the application of this law. Today, when I saw it in that memory, I went back to that previous proposal from 2018, there's no impact assessment there. So when unions, people give their position, then the government thinks we should make an impact assessment. When the government, yes, brings its position that it has pushed through the ruling coalition, then it doesn't need an impact assessment, to ask you what an impact assessment is going to be if this ruling coalition wants to stay in power, it's going to be somewhere in 2022, they should make an impact assessment, and by now they've almost identical modeled that it's unsustainable. Then what's he gonna say? Then he'll say, and he's unsustainable again, so we'll start with the changes, and then there'll be another referendum initiative that'll spend the money collected from donations, memberships, union organizations and all to prove to another future government that that's not how it works. And what we've often been looking for, an impact assessment and an advance impact assessment. I would now be pleased if the government had said, if we were under pressure and it was clear in that battle we could lose political legitimacy, it could violate our possible successes in the future elections, we're making one reasonable decision, we're going to accept clearly that the initiative would bear fruit, so the results of this initiative will be passed on to legislation, we've accepted the will of the people, and that's that. But what the Ministers are missing in this, it is actually supposed to give an analysis of what will happen if the application occurs is you are responsible for protecting the system and that you clearly show the financial data which are scenarios, not only accept the will, is the act that the people have brought down to you, but on your side must be a professional explanation and states which clearly indicate that there will be development in the future and what the government would have to, if already one scenario that has been proposed was unsuccessful, and it is aware that the pension system is not sustainable, and that is what measures will be taken in the future to make the system a sustainable food this way living in suspense, we will here, accept, most here has accepted your proposal which, now, falls, most will accept the proposal that goes from the initiative, but what brings the future? All of us here are actually aware that after that there will be some changes again, now as many of them are hidden, it is also a colleague, and Podolnjak has noted that we can reasonably expect after this debate and the events that have been that new steps will come which will upset the public again, but likely to welcome the end of this government's mandate so as not to violate the trust of a potential electoral body again, and what have we solved? Nothing. Minister, you and your government have given up on an initiative and are slowly like what is now called Milanovic's government, so you have an initiative, you withdraw, it's given up on outsourcing, it's given up on monetization, and you're a little detachment instead of what you've professionally, clearly establishing, you're going to defend it, is it really a loss of choice, is it crucial in some government's behaviour or decision-making? If we continue this way then we will have the nods of governments that show and show, and this is what Milanovic's Government has shown, now and you, that as soon as someone gets a little stronger on the government, then the government will withdraw, I can't wait for some more significant new proposal to see that the people's masses will call Plenkovic and his government and I believe that they will be more successful than they have learned that they can, that they bite you, they simply bit you and feel you, when there's blood then no significant decision can be made, and the fact that in the last year of the mandate is slowly the intensity of any activity that should be done has the reform potential, but after this we will have a new latent state, unsettled health, the minister will not be resolved, the health will not be resolved, the law will be changed, the pension system will not be a solution, the government, so we may change them if this government can't be understood to implement reforms because the failures of future elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166306	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which will speak the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166307	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. We have before us a package of six laws that should have had an extension in that package that was withdrawn from the procedure yesterday, and then already in the beginning it is seen that the basic idea that has been declared and that is the reform of the pension system enters this proposal is, in fact, encumbered, or above all, unarranged. The big ideas that started in this story guaranteed at least the initial promises that this is really about a package that has reform potential, but it is evident that the key things that need to be achieved will not be achieved in order to solve the problem that has existed in this country for two half-decades. The key to the unsustainability of our model of pension insurance or pension as such lies in the fact that too few people are working and too many people are retired in terms of the number of inhabitants, given the age, given the working capacity of all these parameters, we are one of the worse EU countries. This issue of course was on the agenda of many governments and many governments have promised to deal with it, but of course no government can resolve this issue unless it first puts economic development into focus because there is no magic wand that will solve this problem as long as the number of employees and those who pay for contributions to pension funds, regardless of whether they are compulsory or optional, is large enough to keep these funds stable and not have to receive an infusion from the state budget. If it is already a fact that the existing system, Bismarck's social solidarity model is not working, simply because there are not enough payments, then a fundamental question arises what happened to the state that it is unable to understand that it has to execute a different kind of distribution, social wealth? So, if the funds exist but are allocated to the state budget, then it means that they are collected from someone, then it means that the logic of the collection of funds is completely wrong and that the income needs to be disbursed primarily and made available through higher incomes and greater contributions from pension funds. This idea of solidarity is good and it has been introduced, it is already widespread in particular in many European countries, on one condition, that more and more of those who need to be solid and that is worse and worse for us. In particular, in the negotiation process, the European Commission has warned us that this is one of the key problems that the state needs to address and what was actually happening behind the scenes? It's the waves of actually robbing and destroying the pension system, you'd say even on purpose. In the '90s, do we know how the pension funds, which was the next blow? Violent retirement of the entire army of developed defenders. People at the best of their lives, in the most fruitful of their lifetime, were sent into retirement, and that was the shortcut, the simplest way to take care of these people, instead of making sure that the state created a basis for them to self-employed, engage, create a new value, and most importantly, achieve self-respect because a man without a job first of all has a problem of self-respect because he wakes up every morning and looks in the mirror asking if I need anyone in this world? Why doesn't anyone want me to work? Why do I retire when I'm 32 or 40? And what do we create, what have we created? The army of people whose main interest for a long time was a local, bookshop, and unmistakable attempt to focus their lives on good water. Conversion and privatisation have also been a severe blow to the pension system. Thousands and thousands of jobs have been destroyed, so those who have created a new value from which pension funds have been alluded. Here is a recent debate on one law, and we are told that the problem of extra employees will be solved by their temporary retirement. So the state consciously does that in a whole series of waves. Yesterday they were developed defenders, and then they were civil servants and deputies. The easiest way to get rid of them is by sending them into retirement, killing to create a new value because no one is obviously able to come up with such development programs that will give these people the opportunity to create. And then what happens? The government knowingly announced that it would go into an extension of age censorship, or age-limit for retirement, regular retirement. And in a situation where we know I don't know, now here's probably my colleagues know more, an extremely small percentage of those who can at all expect a regular retirement with a full-time job. We are according to this information, which is the percentage of those who have really gone into full retirement, the worst in Europe. And you add to that these privileged pensions that have nothing to do with the pension system. As far as we liberals are concerned, it's a simple situation and calculations. The number of years of work experience and funds paid, but our system has long been unrecognizable or interested in how much money is paid into the pension fund. So in the calculation of pensions, it doesn't matter how much you've worked and how much you've paid for it, but it's actually done through some coefficients, wisdom, indexes that don't have anything to do with it, they're actually creating an equation. Is anyone actually going to take this job right and admit that all the solutions that make these laws, which take effect for 8, 9 or 10 years, are actually postponing key moves and that key moves don't live at all in laws that regulate pension, pension rights rather than in laws that allow you to create a new value, develop entrepreneurship, encourage creativity, give opportunities to work as many people as you can and as many people want because it's the heart of everything. There's no other way to produce a new value, then there's no money, but only by work. Whoever thinks something else is possible is wrong and rare are people who can make money on gambling, from renting, or maybe from inheritance. You can't rely on society to do that, so the key is always to produce a new value in making money, the key things to pay. While the world is discussing the introduction of guaranteed basic income for all citizens, let's say now Finland is piloting this model by which every citizen is either working independently or not, whether he worked, whether he worked, guaranteed 560 ERU, so while we're talking about it, while in the world we're actually talking about here, we're still talking about so many social categories and people who depend on social transfers and through retirement, because with us retirement is actually a social transfer, and not a reflection of what you've earned based on what you've been doing, then you see how far we're actually walking with that world that surrounds us. And you see how many light years it is, when Croatia will come to the same position that it can say, no matter how small the country, with few inhabitants, with little income, by whatever parameters we want when we compare to the richer and larger ones, we are, of course, at a distance. But when we come, maybe 2030, when these provisions come into force, do you believe that, in the position of us talking about guaranteed basic income? So guaranteed basic income in those countries that pilot it, there are some cases in France here we hear now and Finland is much bigger than any pension in us except the privileged. But let's not be hypocritical, if this government isn't able to solve this problem, and it isn't, but it's actually delaying it, then at least let's face it, we're in a very difficult situation, the opportunities in which we talk about the future of the pension system are terribly difficult and they don't have a good perspective until we take a different policy of economic development, until we strengthen the whole philosophy, the whole system of creating a new value, making money and then filling pension funds. Let's not lie to the public, then on Mondays we suggest that thousands and thousands of new defenders enter the pension system, take thousands and thousands of former HVO fighters into the pension system, force hundreds and hundreds of civil servants into retirement, and on Tuesdays we'll say we'll raise the age limit. Well, in this form, it wouldn't have happened, we all know that, if it hadn't been for more than 700,000 citizens standing up and saying you won't, so you can't treat this issue. The government has retarded and tried to make a maximum of what is given, but what concerns me is with this Solomonian solution how it is possible that employers have not been recommunicated as one of the key social partners this second part of the package that has now been postponed. How did it occur to you in the first place that the burden of giving up 67 years and 68 years, respectively, would be entirely on the back of employers? So you can actually see the first and the basic problem, which is the concept of the role of entrepreneurship, the creation of new values and the possibility of creating new money at all. It actually shows that the orientation of this government is anti-entrepreneurship. I'm very interested in what you'll agree with them, and I hope that deal will be quality, because you know what they say in Dalmatia, the man and the cargo know more than just a man. In this case, the government and entrepreneurs, or employers, know more than the government itself, but put in that correlation of whoever you want. Everyone with the government knows more than the government, especially this one, so the GLAS Club won't support this package.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166308	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate and the first one will be represented by Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The question arises why did the bill come here to the assembly in the first place? It did not come because this government had done it because of its thinking but came because of the political pressure of public pressure because the trade unions organised a referendum "67 is too much", they collected a huge number of signatures, far more than the need, and now to keep this government in power, to reduce tensions, it simply came with this law to repair it, but what they said when we spoke, I signed the referendum "67 is too much" right away, which is what the government and its ministers were saying at the time. Well, my men, if you accept to go at 65 years of retirement, the pension system will fall apart. What the government said in the past few days when they were aware they had nowhere else to go because the initiative had collected far more votes than needed. All of a sudden, they said, "That's all right." We accept everything. Well, respected citizens who follow us when someone within a month, two completely change their mind, first claims that the pension system will fall apart then says they accept everything, then we can simply say that this government has lied to all of us. And it really is. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, it will now raise everyone's salary and not just the educators and health care, all of you 6%, just keep your mouth shut and it's only important that they remain in power. Thus, unprecedented pulsism is on the scene. Until recently, they attributed it to some smaller parties, individuals, this is real pulsism, mega pulsism. Just leave us alone and we'll solve everything for you. Everything. Now esteemed citizens, I especially address you dear pensioners because you know that we from the Party change Croatia do not speak in mind but with pure, strong arguments unlike the representatives of some of your own and the parties who have held back the pensioners over the past 20 years and you are witnessing that they have done nothing. And not only that, but you've only seen your pension drop year by year, your real pension, she's behind on average wages, and you're powerless. These are not your representatives, these are people who fight for themselves and therefore, open your eyes well in the next election. You see in 1990, the Croatian state is being established, then the average pension relative to the average salary was, do you know how many Vice-Presidents of the Parliament? 75%. Let's translate it into our time, if today's average salary in Croatia is 5900, 6000 kuna, you know how much 75% of 6 thousand kuna, so that's about 4.5 thousand kuna. And today, the average pension is 2.5 thousand kuna. So every pensioner's been taken, stolen by two thousand kunas. He's supposed to have 4500 today and he's got 2,500 today. Well, dear pensioners, you've paid for all the failures of criminal structures, crime, criminal conversions, you've paid for all the failures of the incompetent political furniture that led Croatia. But you know what's most tragic? The most tragic thing is that a large number of pensioners were just hoping for some better changes they had just chosen in the elections of one party or another who had been gawking at Croatia by the system of riding Kurt to ride Murt. But I think we've come to the end, to the wall. Because 2500 kuna is not a pension nowadays, it's a hard sociality but this pension system is unsustainable and I'm making you a serious man, not just a politician, but a university professor from finance I really don't want to scare but it's uncertain for you and a pension for the future. It is uncertain, however, that any increase along with such political structures leading the country. But you know what's certain? Well, it is certain that you will get a thousand kunas a month because you see that they are constantly shrinking, that is certain if it continues. That's why our dilemma and your simple, us or them, us or them have no other. But it's not my intention today to convince history, it's what we've heard here today, I haven't heard much, let's go with the solutions. Our Committees on Finance and the Economy of the Party Change Croatia and next week we will have a special performance here, talk to the pensioners, here are the real solutions, Mr. Minister. First, transform the second pension column. Croatia is the only EU country with a second pension column. Here when I came to the Parliament three years ago and started talking about it they attacked me from left and right, some media crucified me, today I see my luck and joy not only not to attack me but people realize it's true, they can't speak it publicly, but at least they're not running out and attacking. It means they realize it's a failure. This is an unsustainable system 105 billion kuna is in the second pension pillar, in a couple, 3 years will be greater than the revenues of the state budget. 75 billion in government bonds, it's not money, people think they have money, they don't have money, they have debt in their hands, bills. I was visiting before the summer of Hungary and the Czech Republic, how did they handle it? Party Change Croatia proposes this, so do you, it doesn't matter, but you won't do it. Why? Because the second pension column is held by four pension fund management companies, all owned by foreign banks. And the only ones who make money in this whole story have picked up about nine billion kunas of pure profit from the establishment of this system that is unsustainable and unbearable. So you have to offer, we ask and offer, take the transformation project, give people 60 days to choose whether to move to the first pension column or to the second pillar, or to volunteer. Our vision is two pillars, the first is mandatory. So imagine what an idiotism it is to have two mandatory pillars. You have some messages, you don't have time to listen, you know, these are the tricks we talk to the MPs, just keep sending messages, and that's what's in your way. You're not listening, I know you're here for another hour while we tell you what we have, so you're going to leave, you're the minister, you're the minister, you're either serving or you're going to leave, you're going out, you're going to torture yourself here. You see, you keep your cell phone and you knock. Therefore, the Czech Republic, Hungary, we would thus reduce the public debt from 298 billion to 210 billion, from 78% to 50%, do you know what change it is, the credit rating you like to talk about, from agencies that have destroyed almost the world, but it would certainly grow on the old... Public finances would be far better, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the second pillar is deception, a lie, it destabilises public finances. And I can't come to my senses that just a moment ago, a huge representative here says not only that it shouldn't be abolished but it needs to increase separations, if these people have a problem either with logic or fierce lobbying and working specifically for someone. Now, what else is there to do? In public procurement, about four billion kunas can be saved, and I don't have enough time, but I'm going to elaborate on the next few days as I get a chance. So dear pensioners, you see that there is 4 billion money we're saving in public procurement that goes into private pockets, interest on government debt instead of 9 billion kunas should be paid real 4 billion, that's where they've been taking 4 to 5 billion kunas for 10 years. Over 40 billion kunas have been taken out of our pockets for the past 10 years to fill the pockets of banks and bankers anyway. And here I'm going to say, I have more suggestions, I don't get to elaborate them, but respected citizens, respected pensioners, it's all up to you. If you are satisfied with what is so far, choose the same parties that have led you so far. If you want to finally live the life of a decent man, a retired man who worked his whole life, choose a new, fairer, more skilled people who will stand up for you here, fight and that you can sleep peacefully and say that you have earned your pension with honor and not become a difficult problem for society and your children, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166310	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate and the first one will speak, and I'm sorry, we have a few replicas, I'm sorry. He is the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166311	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinović, we are still essentially paying out pensions based on solidarity in the great work, I, you workers, we are paying into a fund of money and then we are passing on to the pensioners because what they have done before has already been spent and that problem remains still, I don't know how we're going to solve this problem, on the other hand we have a big job request and we don't have a worker, there's no one to work, so unemployment is being reduced on the one hand, and on the other hand we need new workers that we don't have and I don't know who't know who's going to fill that budget at the end and are we really going to have those pensions, we have to take care of ourselves saving ourselves in some other way and so workers who make a lot less money than the two of us, so tell me how do we get out of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166312	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166313	Thank you, Alexic. You see that question, the answer to the question they ask, and you listened carefully, I offered 3.4 concrete solutions, and that's what I mentioned, that's billions of kuna. Secondly, you see, it's no big deal who parrots repeat people who act in power, is no longer a ratio of 3:1, 4:1 people, such people don't realize at all that modern capitalism has entered its phase of robotics, artificial intelligence, that workers are increasingly suppressed from the world of work, that a whole new economic paradigm is needed, a new tax system that will solve this thus is not gentlemen, crucial. You're just reading from the portal science, that's where you study, so that's not true either. So, to cut short the story of fellow Alexic, just new people like we've dealt with these problems, we've been fighting over some things together, so we can solve this and we can't deal with these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166314	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lovrinovic, I noticed in today's debate one inconsistency especially with colleagues on my right, so they called for a referendum on pension reform and were also against the referendum on the Electoral Law. So I think that HDZ is much more consistent, he's been from the beginning against these two referendums. I'm saying that this referendum on pension reform was supported but also a referendum on the Election Law and that you can't support one referendum and others when you don't like it because I think the same people signed around two referendums, and these are the people who don't want their political elites to shape their fate anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166316	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166317	Thank you, colleague, for asking. I didn't quite get it, you're comparing SDP, HDZ, which is what we think about their behavior, especially if I figured out the SDP that one supports, the other didn't support it, etc. There's a very simple answer. Both parties have been leading Croatia for all these years and we've had a hard time getting hurt, not to describe, we all know how. The matter is very simple, such people and such parties should leave the political field and it is the easiest thing to do in the elections. The biggest problem is Croatia that 45% of people do not go to elections, these other 55% of them most have to come out because of interest, who are in debt to their mentors. Therefore, I call on these 45%, they are the key to the solution, let them come out, it is the only way we can change Croatia and send the history of those who have been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166318	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166319	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Your Honor, you mentioned that the percentage of pensions in the average income of the 90th year was cca 75%, today is cca 40% up and down, but the reason why, we understand, we have too many pensioners, few employees. So we need to reduce the number of pensioners, increase employment. And second of all, I'm curious, what do you think of introducing a national pension, a notion, and will it be shared to everyone who, when they've turned a certain number of years, did-did not work or would the criteria be introduced on basic property and income censorship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166320	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166321	Thank you, colleague, for this question. These are essential questions, and of course they're looking for an answer, as we can see, we have different approaches. You see how destroyed companies are in criminal privatisation, armies of people are sent to early retirement, developed defenders in early retirement, social cases in early retirement, so in this system, everything that the political structures that ruled, they didn't know and could solve, and that's why those who worked 35, 40 years of age suffer, and more, and therefore they have such a small miserable pension that they can't normally live for. You see, I said and calculated that instead of 2 and a half today they were supposed to get 4500 average pensions, they were stolen by someone 2,000 kuna, and when they increase here by 60 kuna, it's shown as the historical achievement of this government. But I think citizens and pensioners recognize this delusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166322	Thank you, thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166323	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll take the opportunity to say and further explain these three amendments of ours, so we're proposing an article. 8th Amendment to delete the words "without making a solution" because we believe that HZMO should adopt a new solution that reduces the pension from 0.30 to 0.20% per month of early retirement because the solution is the basis for any administrative procedure, namely, the pension problem falls under the Law on Management of Procedure, and that would be perfectly normal and I don't think anyone can justify saving up to 5,000 of such solutions. I know I, I've been here, we've worked hundreds of thousands of solutions, citizens have the right to get their act that protects them if they're considered damaged and can conduct a procedure by administrative procedure. Secondly, it's my idea, and it's such a suggestion that nomotechnically and properly add a new article. 8 a) which would allow compensation for those months that the pensioners who went into retirement this year and suffered a pension of 0,30 per month of their previous retirement, to be compensated for that difference of 0,10% per year of internship or to be totaled if they were 5 and a full year if, or so many months, they were reduced from 18% to 12% and the difference for this year to be one or more meals and the third amendment was linked to the fact that the Government had determined that they would have an ex post impact assessment, in a law that regulates this area it states that the government could do so in the event of a direct war threat, in the event of major environmental disasters, so something traumatic in society and not in the manner where we are peaceful, when we have had since the day of surrendering... To date, she could have made an impact assessment and, secondly, we ask that the impact assessment be continued, given that it is a law very important for the existence of our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing I wanted to say. The second thing that we've already opened up the entire pension reform, I think it was deeply wrong for HNS's proposal to save a certain portion from II. the pension rate shall be paid in cash to the users when they leave for retirement. It is only good for those who have enormously high salaries, enormously large savings but those who have average and below average wages and have saved something in II. The pension pillar is very unfavourable because it gets a little bit now and then what remains in II. The column shall be allocated to life-long small amounts regardless of the 27% allowance per year in pension column I and 20.23% on deposits in both pension pillars. Therefore, I think it was deeply wrong but, behold, it remains in this law and will prove not to contribute to social security at age. Also mentioned this year in the government's plan, the government's legislative activities also included a national pension. Now, the national pension, that sounds so nice, at first it was thought to be 100,000 users, and then it was 50 and 80,000 users. According to the Institute of Public Finance, it is about 27 000 users, so much less than was expected to be able to give someone something, so they will be willing to vote for a certain option. So that's how things are now and one big part, although we don't have that number, but one large part of 27 000 citizens are already using social programs and social aid, which means that the estimated value for that national pension should be allocated 300 million is not true because they are already using 800 or 920 kuna as self-retired pensioners, so it was possible for every 300 or 350 increases in isolation, so these figures are not standing. However, I am obliged as a parliamentary representative who has considerable experience in this area and I share experience with our neighbours, with all EU members and our neighbours are close and source from the same legal system as we and the sea, telling you that in 2012, they left the idea of a national pension because it is subject to manipulation. You once give a solution to a national pension then someone takes it for the rest of their life while in the welfare system then a year someone has to say whether he cashed in his real estate he needs for life or not because if he has money he can live as a tenant, but they are other social criteria to receive financial assistance from the state. Money aid from the state is money aid that comes from the tax revenues of this country from all citizens, so we have nothing to play with. So, our colleagues in Slovenia have made another one, they have told us the constitutional obligation is to protect citizens who were not lucky to get a large pension, who live alone, who are abandoned, who have small incomes, but have also started from another position. They have established a poverty line for the Republic of Slovenia, not for EUROSTAT, which uses 2,485 kuna here, not for them. And they made a plan, a plan to fight poverty that lasts five, seven years, and gradually inserted certain social transfers that no citizen of the Republic of Slovenia will live below the poverty line for five years. It's a social state. If it is also paid out of their pension system, then it is recorded as a social transfer of the budget to those purposes and does not go to the burden of their pension insurance office. So if we want to have everything around us, we should just show the will to learn and that we want to recognize good solutions. We are all to help those who are older and who are abandoned and who have no other sources of income, but you know the worst thing is if in life you think you're doing good do even more damage or wrong. It simply invalidates all good intentions. We have tried it twice in Croatia by a party of pensioners on our backs. We have advocated the payment of the Christmas card twice, it has been paid three times, but three times according to the right criteria, and in the end it turns out that those who are registered to you in Croatia have small receipts they get the biggest Christmas card because they were the criteria for those with the lowest incomes to get more, and then it turns out to you that someone who has a thousand more euros from Germany got the biggest Christmas card because they had small incomes from the Croatian pension. So, with good intentions, you get beat up, and you go with good intentions. So, as far as our national pension privilege is concerned, we learn from neighbors and more developed pension systems because you wanted us to or not recognise the ministers as former director, our pension system, our Pension Insurance Office has no financial autonomy, nor business autonomy it functions on the principle that your boss tells you and where your boss says it, and I said it not today for the first time, I also said it in 2006 when the managers or directors of the institution were from the system and they were very offended. Today, this is no longer the case, and this system definitely needs to gain new strength in expertise and financial independence because we are the only country in the EU where the Pension Insurance Office does not have financial and professional autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166324	Thank you. Well, we've got more replicas, so let's do it first, and then we'll have a free speech. He is the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166325	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja. You said the government didn't want to make an impact assessment of the rules, and now I'd look back on one case that I had. I proposed two laws, and the government rejected those laws to me, among other things, because I didn't have an impact assessment of the rules under those laws. And now I'm going to propose a new law requiring banks to order that they have to pay people back the money robbed on the basis of unfair loan contracts. And now I'm going to give this transparently one impact assessment of the rules, and I'm going to say that it's going to bring 15 to 25 billion kuna back to the citizens, that it's going to increase that way and GDP and budget, and that it's going to improve the demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia together. I wonder if the Government of the Republic of Croatia will accept such a transparent assessment of the impact of the regulations and I will not be able to implement it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166326	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166327	Dear fellow Alexic, I share your disappointment with our system and obligations by assessing the impact of the bill. I think that MPs in the Croatian Parliament should not be burdened with giving us one idea which in some way solves some injustice, social injustice, bank fraud, etc., and that we have institutions that must serve this people and the opposition representatives' initiative they must calculate and give an impact assessment because then we are if that is the case, and I have that experience and then we are representatives of the second order because we do not have the opportunity to get to the institutions that the government uses to assess the effects and we cannot give a warrant. It is not good for parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166328	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166329	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Your Honor. I listened as carefully as ever, did you withdraw national pensions from the pension system and rely on social care? And tell me since you mentioned that the number of those who should be users of national pensions has decreased from 40 and 80 as much as is mentioned, to cca 27 000. Is that where the real estate income censorship is involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166330	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166331	Dear fellow Kirin, I could tell you a lot more if I saw the bill's proposal but given that the bill is subject to debate on a wider working group, then I can't tell you much more than that I just hope that this law will not rely on the pension system, regardless of what Minister Aladrovic promoted it rather than the social system that will have strictly these income and property criteria under constant control and that indeed, if you ask me, it is a couple of excellence issues of the social system rather than the pension system. It's kind of imported that's what it's called but it doesn't have to mean if it's called a pension that tomorrow can't be called social aid for older people or state support at age, etc. So there are variations, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166332	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166333	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague of the Hrelja, it is very important that something is called because it immediately implies what it means. We opposed the introduction of real estate taxes because we felt that the tax would be rejected on the back of the poorest. We're not in any way for those rich to be taxed. However, both today and the tax administration and all can use units of local self-government that have over 555 plus one in the Republic of Croatia and use data on bonds of payment of the municipal fee to be introduced into a fair property censorship. It is also with income censorship there is no tax administration doing its job, it is incomprehensible to what you say that they do not know which inflow from abroad and state and public enterprises and even those who use public resources, let them participate, let them participate in helping the poorest so that Croatian forests can lower the price of wood for heating to the poorest pensioners where the price of wood for heating is already higher today than the entire gas in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166334	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166335	Well, colleague Žagar, you're right, it's very important how we name something, and I never said it should be called a pension, but I suggested that it be state support in age or social income for age and abandonment, etc., so one of the other variants and that it necessarily belongs to social systems and not to the pension system, so these are my thoughts. Of course it can be, we had a project called installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings, now I have some information that it's problematic that we don't have a list of real estate and real estate tax because Europe sets new criteria and that's the problem that we haven't already started working because now we're waiting for new criteria and new criteria will be that they will allow the installation of elevators to those Okay, sorry, I'll continue in private, I overstepped. [[- Intruder Rainer. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166336	And the last replica is the respected representative of Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166337	Thank you. Dear fellow, you mentioned this national pension, it would be good to really point out that the national pension must not be an exhibition exhibit in this mythomania where we feel important than that it should be an instrument that shows the country's commitment to being a social state and that it is a social state, it is seen whether it produces poverty or combats poverty by acting. In any case, the national pension should be that element and that instrument that keeps our citizens from poverty and keeps above the poverty threshold because let's not forget that where there is poverty that there is no democracy, there is only kidnapped democracy because someone took away civil rights. So this concept of national pension is extremely important in many ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166338	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166339	Dear colleague Vučetic, of course, we are always late and then we wait with one institute to solve all the problems. Social policy and the fight against poverty in my experience, which I have from our neighbouring country of Slovenia, is a beauty of measures that are otherwise valued and even some elements in the pension system, especially the bonus work of 40 years and more, is additionally rewarded so that their lowest peace for 40 years is even higher, as if our lowest for 40 years of training was even 20% higher. In this way there is an estimated poverty limit, therefore from the social area, from the pension area and we also have health care where even though we forget this additional health insurance is very important for social security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166340	Thank you. We will now return to the subject and the law and continue the individual debate and will speak to the respected representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166342	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. So here we are back on the subject of the Pension Insurance Act, what is important to say that this government has listened to what the citizens wanted, which is that from the former law passed in previous mandates of previous governments, it is that the deadline for retirement and age shifts from 67 to 65 years. And that's something that's understandable that a lot of citizens are impotent to them that age is lower. However, what is the fact that in relation to the number of employees and the number of those who are retired, this ratio is 1:1,29. This used to be much more than 1:2.5 or 3 in more developed systems. These systems are very sensitive, but what should also be said is that this period has increased the number of employees per year by over 103,000, that there has also been a decline in unemployment, and now at 8 months 2019 we have the lowest unemployment rate of only 6.8%. Whatever those who opposed wanted to show as something that was not achieved in a quality way, the figures are inexorable and these are facts, regardless of how many young people went out there and how that exodus is something that can really cost us a lot. In parallel, I think that it is these young people who go outside because the possibility of going is much easier and the migration of young people is much greater because we are a member of the EU, and these young people want to experience and check that it is in other countries, and then I believe that after all the experiences they have, and the fact that there are also those who are very much coming back, that they will see and see certain advantages that this government and that we all need to work as preconditions that they can achieve a better quality of life here in their country and that they will work and live and start their family. What is evident in the law itself is that gaining the right to retirement is now returned to 65 years and 15 years of retirement, that women can use this benefit with a lower age limit by 2029, that the right retirement is also the one who has completed 60 years and 41 years of internships and what is very important to reduce the pension that was 0.3% for each year now by early retirement to 0.2%, so a total of 2.4% per year of internships and 12% in the period of five years earlier retirement. If we remember that according to the previous proposal, that pension was 18%, then this way we see that they have and other conditions are met and that they allow retirement to be done before. What I would like to especially point out here is constantly mentioned pensions under special regulations. We all know that there are 17 categories here and that these pensions are based on special conditions. Why am I saying that? Well, like, first of all, the people who worked in the internal affairs and justice bodies are, so they're the people we know they had and have a special working relationship and special status just because their work is extremely demanding and cannot be treated like everyone else. The group also includes those who have worked in demining operations, so we cannot say that they are privileged because they are indeed in special conditions where each going to the field means perhaps their death unfortunately. Also, when we look at the sources from where these people were getting their own, they achieved their rights and their incomes and their wages, then it is seen to be the same from the state budget. Therefore, these and such persons are less valuable, less important than those who, both as doctors and as teachers and as employees in other services, also made their salaries from these budgets local or state-owned. So, what am I saying? We can't do that to a certain person if we don't actually look at the complexity of the jobs they're doing and the work they've been doing. Also in these groups we have different other persons who were members of either, or the active military person, whether members of the Croatian Homeland Army, former political prisoners, NOB participants, etc., if the problem is that, according to special regulations, defenders and members of their families or HRVI, so remember that these persons were also working in the real sector, whether they were members of these institutions, so they were again working and having a significant share in their overall internship is made up of their active participation and work on jobs, I say in the real sector or otherwise. Therefore, if we wanted to strip the entire pension system, then we would stay only in the real sector and then we could just call on how clean the real sector contributes to the overall system and how much it pays in the total pension insurance fund because then we could say here you see this we achieved in the real sector, and all of this if we were to strip then we would see how much part of it comes from saying different sources, the budget either local or state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166343	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, in my individual debate, I will put this topic that we are discussing, which is extremely important because it's worth over a million and 250 thousand of our fellow citizens, and I will try to integrate all of us in principle to think about this problem in a slightly different way. And what I can safely say now is that with this debate, all former finance ministers and the current finance minister in the Republic of Croatia would certainly agree. Because I just think that when I talk about this subject, and we have to talk about it in a slightly different way than we're talking about. Why? So to talk about this topic, we need to get into the Republic of Croatia's budget. Because you have three, we can say structural problems in the budget, it's pensions, it's wages and it's health care. And these are the three topics we've been talking about lately and how we've been fighting, but we in this assembly and members of the government, unlike everyone else, if we're responsible, have to approach in a slightly different way. Why? So when we talk about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and when we talk about the competitiveness of the labour price in the Republic of Croatia, then we say that this labour price is extremely burdened with taxes, but we should also say contributions. And one average salary in the Republic of Croatia when you take the total burden given according to the state budget, regardless of whether it goes to this fund or to the taxes of units of local and regional self-government and the state 90% of these liabilities are contributions to pension and health insurance. Only about 10 percentage points is the income tax burden. On the other hand, when we look at it from the point of view of the expenditure side of the budget, then you'll see that we're almost 40% short on pensions based on these contributions, and I'm going to do a little bit later on on this subject that we're always fighting over, and I don't think we should be fighting because we're probably thinking alike. And also when we look at health care which should be financed from health contributions, and how much health care costs, there's about 10% of the resources missing there again. Now, colleagues and colleagues, is there any government in this long or short history of the Republic of Croatia that has not adopted in its term any regulation that enforcing the so-called so-called. Retirement by special regulation? I don't think so, and it probably won't be in the future because it's just that life always drives and brings in certain groups of societies that, based on what they've earned and paid, have no right to retire, and the social state as such has to take care of them. And when, regardless of ideologically, we remove what should really be by special regulations and put it in the budget, let it be seen that it is paid because we have passed such a law, then we will again come to a lack of funds. However, this defense story is particularly sensitive and I don't think we're being fair or correct here. Today, a colleague here was throwing himself around with a fake, fake, fake, no false defense attorneys. There are defenders, and those who don't have that status should be eliminated by someone else. And I would very much like to take a phonogram of Mrsic's discussion and me in a position when my colleague Mrsic was a minister, I was an opposition representative. We agreed on some things if I wasn't wrong, but you weren't as dissonant back then as you are today, although I understand the position now, but I'm saying this is no one calling my colleague Mrsic but I just want to say that we who have been in these rooms have said some words and those words can be interpreted as much as anyone has. So if we talk about pensions being low and peace-making needs to be bigger, there are only two ways, one is much higher economic growth, and let's say that a larger number of employees will also generate higher tax revenues in the budget from which the policy will decide that one part of these tax revenues will be used to increase pensions. This minister or any other minister unfortunately cannot do so because he has a situation that he has. And this was an ideal opportunity today, given that the law to so say the general character of the government has accepted something that the other part of the assembly signed that should be accepted, so I expected that we would be in a consensus on this issue and that we could open up some other questions freely. But some other questions just by putting each of us on our own both life and professional and political experience on a certain topic to improve this pension system and then we can tell the minister that you did, you didn't, etc. However, have we heard from all these discussions today a proposal that could be found, a roundtable, and discuss and help the Minister and the Government bring about more quality changes? Unfortunately, we didn't. And again I'm going to go back to what I said when I spoke on behalf of a club that a parent wouldn't give to his child, so the same thing that the Prime Minister, the government, the political option wouldn't give the users a budget depending on whether it's social benefits, whether it's a pension, whether it's a salary, simply doesn't exist. Now the other questions are what our options are, and whether in these tiny things that we're fighting politically about, and that's the same thing, and it has to be in this assembly, we can achieve something quality. Unfortunately, we can't. And colleagues and colleagues, for information, do you know what the amount of pensions was for a million and 200 thousand pensioners in 2004? Twenty-four billion. And today we have a million and 250, 60 grand, the amount of pension is more than 40 billion kuna, so that amount has increased by over 70%. Yes, but then the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was 3,000, 3,500 kuna and that pension that was below 1,800 kuna compared to that average salary somehow seemed. Today, the average salary in the Republic of Croatia is close to 7,000, and our average pension is 2,880 kuna. And now look, this average pension, relative to 2004, has gone as much as it has gone, and these are the things that we need to be the starting point when we're discussing pensions because looking at that average salary is something that's full of pension funds. So, you and all of us and the employees in Croatia are accounted for on your basis for the rate of retirement, you can count on nothing else. So it's very important that story. To talk about the harmonisation of pensions is not an increase or an increase in pensions is simply not okay, the harmonisation of pensions is a legal term for increasing pensions. Why did we do that if there was no harmonisation then those pensions would go back because they wouldn't be accepting inflation, they wouldn't be accepting pay raises, so they'd be looking statically at something and who would be losing it. We'd be retired. Therefore, if we say that someone will get paid, and based on that, since it is one of the reference sizes for the indexation of pensions, then the logical thing is that pensions will also be increased. So these are just some topics that I think we could discuss in this assembly without political colour and that we could come up with some quality solutions. So, I guarantee, here's what I haven't talked to all my predecessors and those who have been with me, and they've created a budget for the Republic of Croatia, and because of the pension system and the trade union negotiations, they're thinking the same way. Now the question is how much will we be willing to legislatively change some things to increase what needs to be the growth generator of pensions, that this economic growth in wage increases, increase employment and you can withdraw the sign of equality and thus increase pensions. Whoever thinks they're going to increase them differently, the one without offense, I don't want to hurt anyone or insult them, it has nothing to do with life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166345	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166346	Comrade Shuker, numbers can always be displayed in one way or another, but that figure that's very clear that we 25 years after the war have new defenders and that's what destroys the pension system because it increases the number of people in the pension system. I agree that we have passed laws here regarding the financing of certain benefits, certain groups of citizens, and these are compensations that the state has said we will give you because you did this and that, in the military, were in the police or were defenders. But citizens expect it to be clear, to be seen and that the pension system can and should only finance this part that is important for pensions. So let's get the social transfers out of these, and then we'll see that the 17 billion-dollar hole isn't as big as the pension system itself, as far as working pensions are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166347	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166348	He's a colleague of Mrsic's. I'd give you the right to this last part of the story if you'd miss three or four or five billion kunas to pay off your pension and she could say it's because of that. But since 40% of the pension amounts are covered by tax revenues, then this is funded from tax revenues, not financed from pension income, we want to render it analyticalally one way or another, I think it's least controversial. But what I've been trying to tell you all along, you're not in this subject any of the suckers so that I can tell you, he doesn't have this kind of, so you're very familiar with this subject and you know very well and you're doing a very rhetorical use of something, but you have no right to me when I say rhetorically that it's not because it's funded from tax revenues. If Delta was $4.5 billion, then you'd be right, and whether we're analyticalally going to show this one way or another, it's totally irrelevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166349	Thank you. Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166350	Thank you very much, dear fellow Shucker. You say, some former government, the current and future governments will always get into certain pension laws, especially for those pensions under special regulations, but, I would also like to stress here, not only the Croatian government or the Croatian government but also all countries in the environment that have problems with the pension system, for example, the German central bank said that leaving at 65 is not enough anymore, they increased it to 67, after 2 years they said, and it won't be enough because of the poor demographic image, it goes to 69, so they have their complexity, a strong market, a strong economy, a lack of labour force, poor demographics. Italians at 66 have a pension system collapse. The French say up to 62 years old for long-term insurance companies, for those who did not pay, 67 and more, therefore, the complexity of the pension system is not only specific to Croatia but also to all the countries surrounding us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166351	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166352	Yes, counterpart Babic, the problem of that and the income and expenditure part when it comes to pensions is the problem of all European countries. So, one way or another, but everyone has it, definitely everybody has it and everyone covers it from other tax revenues. But, you know, he's always pinning on the defenders, I don't see any reason, so we passed this law that defense pension must be 40, it can't actually be 40%, so we brought it in, and we knew that time would pass that the defenders would retire. Anyone could have said that then I'm against it. No one was defending anyone. But we can't talk about people who have been on the battlefield, who have been at war, that they have some kind of privilege. It's not a privilege, it's something that gave them this high house by law. It's the only fact, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166353	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166354	If it's clear to anyone, it should be clear to you, Mr. Shucker, that when you buy something you don't need, you'll be selling what you need. So the sustainability of the pension system is a matter of the relationship between the spending party and the income side. You rule numbers. We have 52% of pensioners below the poverty line. Point. That problem comes out of the framework of this law. This problem has become a security problem for this country and we need to be aware of that and it is an unacceptable and unsustainable situation. So on the expenditure side now, wherever that priority is we have to solve and put and return it to people, especially those who have earned that pension throughout their entire working life. This condition we have is inadmissible. And that's why I'm surprised by your position and in a way, that's how, we can't, we can and we have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166355	Thank you. Answer, the esteemed counsel of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166356	If you had spoken like this last year when you discussed amending the Pension Insurance Act, I'd be clapping for you. It is precisely attributed to one provision of the article, and this is the first step, that for 280 thousand pensioners, given the level of pension, pensions rise by 3 % and some more. That's step one. And whether or not I agree with something, but I'm going to say it publicly, I support it. That's step one. They're trying to change things. But what I was telling you, and I tried to elaborate some things, obviously you weren't listening. You must understand that in the past 20 years the average salary in Croatia has gone over 100% up, and the basis for the calculation of pensions is our payment. And not to say that the average salary in war years in Croatia was there, not knowing, a thousand kuna. Not to tell you it's '93. annual inflation was over 3,000%. Wait a minute, you guys, when you get home, get your pay. And you're setting it up, and besides that, you can't schedule anything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166357	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166358	Thank you. Dear colleague Shuker, you did not happen to mention in your discussion of the Minister of Finance. Indeed, it is not a simple calculation when it comes to the sustainability of the pension system. We introduced II in 2002. The pension column, with a decision that 5% of the contributions go into that, in fact, 25% of the contributions, 1/4 or 5% of the points. We haven't done anything about it since, in the future, if we're going to change that percentage up. You see, a 1% point of VAT that will probably give up from next year will not generate 2.5 billion more tax revenues this year compared to last year, but will probably generate more, perhaps 3.5.4 billion. Also, with a percentage point of deposit in II. The pension column, not those equations are simple, I've asked the top times the minister, now at this point he said, 46% of the people are deciding for I. and II. It's a post. If we make a good equation, maybe in 10, 15 years with economic growth, some stable economic growth, maybe II will. The pillar to be completely cost-effective to cover many of the problems that affect the pension system, we need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166359	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166360	Comrade Sagar, I only mentioned one segment of these macroeconomic indicators affecting something, you should know when that II came to light. The pension rate, economic growth projections in 2002 were over 4% and almost 5%. You know what 5% economic growth means? So you had simply then, with the economic growth of 5%, the assumption that it could be singled out. When the crisis came in 2009, so the first thing I took out as finance minister was to crucify me, so let's go get the money from II. The pension rate, translation all the way to pillar I and those 40 billion reduce the public debt of the Republic of Croatia and try in this situation when you can't be in charge, when there's no money, when the revenues have fallen, saved but then everyone who makes noises today, no one has supported it, but today it's the financial power of 110 billion kuna and if we're smart, it's the great financial potential of the Croatian state and Croatian pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166361	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166362	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, you pension systems are extremely and extremely complex and they depend on internal opportunities in certain countries, and so depend on external opportunities. Not only the economic environment but also the situation in which someone can be found, today because of the current demographic image, it was once because of the war in some countries, in our country in particular, and talking about some systems that Croatia could copy is unserious because copying these solutions is almost impossible. Every pension system actually has two basic things in me, which is that guaranteeing pensions in meeting the conditions or the distribution of employees. So in this policy and policy that individual governments are working, you can talk about pensioners who are or are not more or less satisfied with their pensions, the Peace system of the Republic of Croatia is over 100 years old, HZMO will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2 years, and if you look at that pension system a little bit and everything that happened in those areas in the Republic of Croatia, you will see that at one point and 5 workers were on one pensioner, that the pension system was strong, that it had actually accumulated funds for 2 or 3 pensions in advance then, but the circumstances that occurred, of course, also weakened the pension system. We can't avoid the fact of the Homeland War, we can't avoid the fact that the pension system, HZMO didn't participate and made a big contribution to the Homeland War, first of all I mean that financial contribution. After the war, certain things happened, certain categories of pensions that we then wanted or should not have received because of the citizens themselves, their poverty, their inability to work, the collapse of the economy, the bankruptcy of hisl's proceedings. So each government has such a "back" pension and pension system and strives in the best possible way to resolve it and have its sustainability and stability. So this government, when it went into retirement reform, not only with this law but also with a set of other laws, in the autumn of 2018, discussed in front of this Croatian Parliament in fact a number of data that led to this pension reform, and it consisted of a few dozen things that were then to be corrected for discrimination, inequality, long-term employment, job opportunities and after going to retirement, benefit for mothers with children or their retirements, the possibility of election I. and II. the pension rate, i.e. combined, supplementary to pensions referred to in point (b) of Article 2(1); a retirement stake, an incentive to leave with a long-term internship, etc., so a number of things we talked about back then. Today, the minister himself spoke in the opening statement about these laws that came into force since 1. 1. In 2019 and, in fact, with some positive shifts carried out by this pension reform but in the meantime, there was an initiative "67 is too much", a sufficient number of signatures were collected, the government controlled these signatures and said they did not need ic in the verification because more than the required number of signatures were collected and all the requirements of that civil initiative "67 is too" were actually accepted by the government and today we are talking about amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act and tomorrow in the second set of laws in order to implement it from 1. 1. 2020. So what the SDP Government brought in 2013 with retirement from 67 years ago, this government is returning to 65 years not only to seek the initiative, the civil initiative "67 is too much" but also with the will and desire of the Government to actually happen what is happening now. By listening, of course, to any kind, the government has accepted these demands, and today we are talking about them. In these circumstances, I am confident because of the pension system itself and its stability, the government will monitor the course of all events both the work-law process and the financial stability of the pension system. So there's no government, and that's what Mr. Shucker said, who wouldn't want more pensions and better retirement status in the Republic of Croatia. We were actually talking about categories of pensions and pensioners themselves and their numbers, so both old retirement and temporary retirement pensions and those going into early retirement with a long-term internship, so we were actually talking about concrete figures, in fact, what it means for the pension system, which is why such average pension of the Republic of Croatia, how long it is for those with full-time employment in the Republic of Croatia, and most of the citizens don't actually know that it's a number of about 12 to 14% of the people in the Republic who, with full-time training, are going to retire if I'm not wrong, if I'm wrong enough to say something, you can correct me. But something else that was actually going to be discussed today happened yesterday, a report by the Prime Minister on the state of the nation and at times when the union leaders had actually decided to strike in the Republic of Croatia, the president was explicit and clear yesterday, and he said about a linear increase in the base of 2+2+2 and 6,12% not only for teachers but also for all state and public officials, where the money, asks the opposition, we said there will be no reduction of VAT from 25% to 24%, and this will be the reason for the increase in wages not only for teachers but also for all state and public officials. Of course, and I understand that, the opposition has been preparing for these two proposals to attack the government, today these arguments have been taken out of their hands and there's been a consternation. So you can no longer talk about it, the days are actually talking about pension reform and the civil initiative "67 is too much" and how suddenly HDZ did it and it's actually a good move from the government that listened to that initiative and put everything back in the parliamentary procedure to 65 years, what we suggested then in the opposition, when the SDP was in power. It's clear to me, today I'm reading certain things that since the opposition so from the unions, if it hadn't been for talks with unions and unions were deceived by what the president said, but I wouldn't agree with that, we had one point of tripartiteness in the Republic of Croatia, which means unions, governments and employers, how to talk to certain trade unions that are ultimately looking for something. You can't be ultimate in something and have a certain dialogue, so the government was ready for dialogue, the unions weren't ready for dialogue, and the government found an elephant solution and, in fact, this move that the prime minister said yesterday, solved the situation not only for teachers I repeat, but also for all state and public officials. When we talk about the pension system itself, I am convinced that people who work in the pension system, in HZMO, not only have sensitivity but I am deeply convinced and I have been aware that through the pension system they are looking for the best possible solutions. But I'm saying, the circumstances in which we're in, not only the internal things related to the economy in the Republic of Croatia, what surrounds us, the demographic image as it is, in these circumstances, the government offers the best possible solutions. I'm glad that working groups are involved, and those people who know the most about it, and that means that the solutions in this situation will be optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166363	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166364	Comrade Babić, it is incorrect to oppose the attack of the announcement of salary hikes. On the contrary, the opposition is pleased that you finally accepted our proposal, which is to give up the reduction, one... reduce the overall VAT rate and invest those 2 billion kunas in work and pay for work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is unsatisfactory that we have imagined investing in salary increases for everyone in a way that increases the non-taxable share of income from 3800 to 5000 kuna, such was our bill, making it possible for everyone in the private and public sectors to grow between 330 and 500 kuna. You have decided to increase to 4000 kuna, which will result only in an increase of 0 to 50 kuna in the private and real sector and your unions are dissatisfied because you oversold them, they sought 6.11%) of the coefficient increase and you allowed them to get 6.11%) of the base increase after a year because on an annual average in these four quarterly, 2, 4, 6 is 4.05 and not 6... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166365	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166366	Thank you very much. It's exactly what I said because you said several times yesterday, not you personally, but your colleagues in the opposition, as well as that the unions were deceived by the government of the Republic of Croatia. So not only did the prime minister say yesterday that there would be a linear increase in the base of 6.12% but he made it clear that with expert associates, the professional public, the academic community would form a working group for the complexity of the coefficients. So it's a very serious job, you're a responsible representative, I follow what you especially cover this part of education, you know very well what systems they are. So it's about a large, large number of people in the Republic of Croatia, over 350,000, I don't think just in the universe, but there's both the judiciary and the police and the military. We must make a fair coefficient of complexity and this is the prime minister's promise yesterday, as well as an increase of 3800 kn... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166367	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166368	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Babic, I agree with you here, and I'm also glad that the government has accepted everything proposed by the 67 is too much initiative, but you've actually been witnesses here, all of us in this House how warmly the minister of the pension system from your option defended the proposal for pension reform. I guess that's one of the reasons why he's no longer a minister of the pension system. How hearty you defended him, how much he spent on public funds to oppose everything proposed by that citizens' initiative. And now, I'd still understand, okay, once we've made a mistake, we won't, but when we've seen those mistakes again, according to the old mode of operation of the entire government, then I wonder if there's some kind of attitude that every government, which every kind of public administration should have, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166369	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166370	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Vesligaj, we went out with the programme "Reliable" in front of Croatian citizens and we won the elections and if you read it, you will see that we have promised a pension reform. All that I've been saying through that pension reform, I'm not ashamed of a single word, not a sentence, and I stand behind it when we say it, and the minister has been telling you about the positive effects of the pension reform. Whether the government made a mistake or not, the government clearly came to the Croatian citizens but the Croatian citizens, the unions organized themselves and said no, so we won't, we won't do what the SDP brought, we want 65 years, we want 65 and we're done. After the signatures were collected, the government, listening to the voice of the public, did so, accepted all the demands of the union or the initiative, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166371	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166372	Thank you. My colleague, this is a continuation of irony, and yesterday the irony with the prime minister's announcement of the raise began, which surprised everyone, including you who clapped there because the prime minister refused to establish a dialogue with the unions and interesting and ironic that yesterday we discussed a gastroenterologist, minister and recall gastroenterologist, and I guess the prime minister, under that impression, decided to communicate with his own insides and to announce that it would be an increase of 6.1%, and that is why I call the ironic increase a gastroenterological increase. So there was a direct relationship between the prime minister's "me" and his insides, he didn't talk to anyone, including you. Today's irony is being looked at in that you said that the HDZ government came before the people with the SDP proposal and that the people rejected the SDP proposal offered to the people. So please continue, because by the end of the day, I'm going to experience the exhilaration of irony.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166373	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166374	I respect your expression, but it doesn't have to be the theatre, the profession you're dealing with, when you say it wasn't about the unions and it's about the ultimatum. When you have an ultimatum in front of you, it is difficult to establish a dialogue and the dialogue is tripartitan between the unions, between Croatian employers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As the union's proposal was ultimate, ultimate, I will repeat again, the government had no choice but to speak to the unions because they did not want to, but the prime minister presented it here in his report yesterday. So what I'm saying is, I'm standing behind it and if there's irony in it, it's up to you to judge, it's up to you, I'm out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166375	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have this bill of law that has some kind of deeper history, at least a year ago, because we will all remember about a year to a year and a half ago that there has been a problem in the pension system or in the future, which is the departure of those persons, most often women who are in '62. A year, which retires together and enters II. A pension column, that will have a 27% pension lower and I think it was some kind of trigger actually for a pension reform at all. However, the government made last year and has been applying since 1 January, a package of 6 pension laws aimed at fully improving the pension system and in order to ensure one long-term sustainability of these pensions for the present and future. So it's very important at this point, meaning both current and future pensions. And what this has done has actually led to a fairer pension system, this inequality that existed has been solved, several more inequalities have been solved, or some that were in the pension system, but what is important is that the law ensures positive shifts for the present and future pensioners. Now there is a problem with those future pensioners because the government, then with the Minister of the Pension System, Mr Pavić, wanted to ensure the sustainability of the pension system in the future, and that is why it is a problem, and therefore it went to the fact that the SDP's proposal, which is the law, brought it in 2014 to retire from 67 years from 2038, dropped another 5 years down to 2033 just to enable that sustainability of the pension system in the future and this led to this and here, fortunately or unfortunate, in 2014, there was no protest or union organisation or referendum for that retirement later at 67 years, and now together with the support of some others it has happened and over 700 thousand signatures have been collected. What is really always important, every government, every party actually listens to its people, listens to what the people want, and, of course, this government has accepted exactly that, this great desire or interest of Croatian citizens to return 65 years to retirement. However, we all advocate the longer workers remain in the world of work. It's normal and logical that every worker in the world should be that 40 or 41 years of retirement because then he would have a full pension, then that pension would be at this point at a minimum of 4600 kn, then it would be about 71.2% of the average salary, and then it would be some solid pension, for example, for the time being, of course, depending on that, is it average? The problem, however, is that most workers do not have the 40 or 41 years of retirement. That's why we all have to fight both governments and all of us here just to figure it out, so people stay as long as possible in the world of work, and we can do it two ways. The first is that as early as workers enter the labour market, it means immediately after school is finished, there was a high school, there were colleges or later retirements, and then it means 65, 67, 70 years, depending on when someone entered the world of work and actually how many years he lost in his youth because that's what it is and that's why it's important, to find measures to support early youth employment, how to educate them in various ways, whether it's through dual, whether it's through lifelong learning, to actually get into the world of work as soon as possible, to have as many retirement jobs as possible, so that the pension system is sustainable and to make any major pensions. Even I'm thinking, so the question is whether this limit is 65 years old, whether it's the best model though I believe it has to be some kind of limit, but maybe it'd be better to write that a man can retire when he's 40 or 41 years old, whenever it's 61, with 65, 68, 70, then when he's filled, of course, with all those categories of premature, disability or I don't know what reasons he has for it. But what's there is. What's also important to me to point out that a year ago, here I was fighting here, arguing to reduce the penalization of early retirement because it was initially slightly more than 20%. I managed, here, me and my co-workers to fight to keep it down, 18%, but here, now it's going to be 12%, which is what the unions have been doing this way. So, I think, in any case, this, this bill is good, of course, we'll support it, but it's important, so what's most important is that the longer workers, the sooner they get into the world of work and stay full-time for 40 years, and then we'll have solved the biggest part of these pension problems, or have an adequate pension, have a system that will be sustainable in the long term and not worry about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166377	Thank you. We have some replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166378	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. It is true, counterpart Karlic, that the pension package then speeded up the gender equality for early retirement for women compared to men with an increase of 3 to 4 months. It should also be said that this demographic measure related to all mothers and adoptive women, unrelated to whether or not they are on maternity leave, is actually used to increase the 6-month period for each child born or adopted. I think that's an extremely good demographic measure. She's positive, she's intelligent, and she's one of the better things that's been brought into this pension package that we talked about in the fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166379	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected MP Dark-Taritash. I'm sorry, the answer of the respected representative, Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166380	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here, I totally agree, I actually think that this pension reform that was passed a year ago has really made good proposals, that it's brought a fairer pension system, that it's solved the injustice, that's what was actually the biggest problem and I think it's succeeded, here, the only one, I'm not going to say the flaw, but here's the only possible mistake that maybe we shouldn't have done at that moment, I don't think we're still matured at this point to work, to increase the limit to 67 years old, but I think it's going to come in the future, that one day actually unions are going to ask to increase to 67 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166381	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166382	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, dear colleague. In your debate, you mentioned something that I think would actually be a reform and what you need to take care of, which is that, for the right to retire, it binds to the number of years you work, so how many internships you have. We are here all the time discussing the old, the age, so, the old part, but it would be much more important for the debate to be and to discuss pensions depending on the years of the internships you have spent working and that, in that sense, some legislation should also be changed in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166383	Answer, the esteemed representative of Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166384	Well, I agree, that's exactly what I've been thinking about, how many years the internship's been going through, so doing that is what's important, and then actually we wouldn't have these problems, it wouldn't matter if it's 65, whether it's 67 or 70 years, but 41 years full-effective employment means in the workplace doing the job, if we succeed one day, then we'll have it settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166385	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166386	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here, today when we talk about amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, I would like first to remind myself of what this government has promised, which it put into its programme, which she spoke about 3 years ago because she will be happy to say that this government is not fulfilling its pre-election promises, that almost nothing has been made of what has been promised. In fact, when it comes to the pension system and pensioners, it has already found that the pension system in Croatia is long-term unsustainable and requires further reform to ensure appropriate future pensions with fiscal sustainability. They promised to implement changes in the pension system and provide adequate institutional and non-institutional care for older citizens in order to ensure them a decent life after the end of the working life. The government's policy will focus on meeting the following specific objectives. First of all, dignity pensions for pensioners. The government will ensure a decent life for pensioners, among other things, a 5% pension increase by the end of the term of office, the introduction of a national pension, and the provision of a voluntary stay on the labour market after 65 years. Now, 3 years later, it was promised, an increase of 5% by the end of the term of office has already been promised, and the pension has now increased by 12%, two times more than in the previous three governments' term. A pension reform has also been introduced that has been delayed for years to ensure the sustainability of the pension system that would guarantee a continuous increase in pensions. It should be recalled that we must be aware that the contribution covers 24 billion kuna of the necessary 41 billion kuna, i.e. that 15% of the state budget goes to pensions rather than to salary increases or to an additional tax charge of even a third of VAT. The ageing population, the special budget for pension payments, increased year by year, and it was the government of the Republic of Croatia and the resolution ministry to find sustainable solutions in order for our children to have the right to retire. With a 12% increase mentioned, changes to the law as of July 1st, 255,000 pensioners increased by 3%, a total of 15% in 3 years. We said that our system is unsustainable, it should be recalled that in the Republic of Croatia the average pensioners' work is 30 years, while in Europe 35, that without pension reform all those who had a pension pension of 700 to 800 kn less in 62 years and younger, that pension reform is provided for mothers for each born and adopted child an additional 6 months of training, on average 2% for each child. The 67 initiative launched too much and submitted a request for a national referendum to amend the Pension Insurance Act. The government of the Republic of Croatia, a resorient ministry, respecting the will of Croatian citizens, has now come up with a proposal to amend this law, means now that the insurance company will have the right to retirement at the age of 65 and the age of 15 or the device for early retirement when the insurance company turns 60 and 35 years of retirement. Of course, the right to an age pension for a long-term insurance company, which is 60 years old and 41 years old in an effective life. It should not be forgotten that these amendments to the law are why we need to secure 35.7 million kuna in the next 21st budget for 2020. 91.7 million, and these revenues will be reduced by 9.2 million in 2020, or 34.9 million in 2021, which by 2040 will be a total effect on the state budget of 45 billion kuna. Also, despite the fact that all those who want to retire at the age of 65 and those who want to stay in the system of work and want to work after 65 will be able to do so by the age of 68. All of these, all articles of the proposed laws and all that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry must take into account is to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system and adequate pension. Of course, all of this will also affect employment, the level of pensions of future users. It will also affect the reduction of the number of pensioners and thus the reduction of pension expenditure, and I believe that these changes are of value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166387	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166388	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates. Well, here's something I want to say about this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. In order to even know why we're here today, we're going to have to remember a little bit of the moment since there's been a lot of live debate this morning, especially gentlemen who, once they've come down from power, experience political amnesia and barely remember anything and then become new people, new politicians, and you're just surprised at it at all that someone could even be a minister, then work and make laws, but what is there? Here's a statement from Mr. Mrsic when he passed the law. The European Commission has requested retirement from 67 already in 2020, a sharp pension and even the abolition of early retirement opportunities, and has strongly opposed retirement at 60 and 41 years of age. We did not agree to this, and now an important part is going, but we have reached agreement with the social partners, trade unions and employers on early retirement and retirement age and the establishment of a new system of professional pensions. After that, we have a statement from the current opposition leader on one show saying he is sorry that he voted in favour of such a law. Of course, it's probably Mrs. McNally's, too. Dark Taritash, then the minister who also raised her hand for one such law, and then probably all the ministers who are then, now we wait for this president without character to say that he was sorry for what he suggested, is just a matter of time before he says it, no, and in the end he'll be sorry that they ever passed such a law, but they passed it. Nice end of 2013 with 2014 but you will retire from 67, 2038, perception, 2038. So I think by 2038, some government will still be going through this space and the councils and the Ban Courts, and of course this is nothing carved into stone, as it probably wasn't Miranda's, but we heard and we saw the behavior of responsible people, responsible politicians, we saw what it looked like. After they voted it out, the unionists Ribic, the North, I don't know, Mihalinec, they clapped, the opposition here was the only one, I remember, I was in opposition, I see Miranda here in front of the pay phone and he assures us that it's good to retire at 67, how good it is, how good it is to work longer because then it was necessary for the sustainability of the pension system, better pensions, etc., etc. And we're listening to what we hear today. Who else was near them? Silvano Hrelja. He didn't resist so much, he was abstention in the vote, that's what I have to say. But there weren't those forces that would say 67 years, so those people aren't so good, no. And today not so far away, 5 years have passed, total amnesia, we see Miranda running first into Ban Jelačić Square to sign the petition "67 is too" and then the whole SDP team comes from the Most, and we'll sign it, and we're 67 too. It's too much for everyone at one point, but when it was, we were discussing this topic a year ago, in the 11th month. And we make the law, everyone shuts up. The unions are silent. No one's saying anything. We haven't changed in 67 years, but, of course, before the elections for the EU parliament, the unionists wake up and say, "Now these 67 years are finally bothering us, but it also bothers the SDP at the time, and it bothers Mrsic and Grmoji and everyone." And of course, the initiative is coming, everyone has joined forces and today we are discussing what happened after that. So everyone falls with a little delay but politically very interesting moments. Bernardic says at one point I am totally sorry that I supported such a bad minister and such a bad law. This one says you're not normal, you should've gone a little better, you'd know it was great back then, but in 2019 it wasn't. And today we're overpowering ourselves here about what's better, whether it's 67, 65, 40 or less. It's overpowering. But, gentlemen, we're looking at the unions, look at this statement by Mr. Ribic on yesterday's prime minister's statement. I have not yet experienced this, the prime minister has offered more than we unionists have sought, this is politically dangerous and incorrect. Now in such a relationship, in such an atmosphere, you make decisions. So you offer them 6% higher, he says it's dangerous. They offered them minuses, all the time, taking the Christmas cards, the regressions, the supplements, the cutbacks, the missus. The voter reduced the teachers' pay several times, they didn't care, they told us in the crisis, we don't know anything to do, we don't know how to get out of that crisis and we just have to take everyone's money, but they still raised public debt by 80 billion kuna, nobody knows where they spent it, we ask them all the time if they spent it, they probably serviced the deficits because there weren't any infrastructure big projects, no highways, airports, etc., somewhere they spent. We heard from fellow Shuker that they were also transferring from other situations where they could, 4.5 billion took Miranda to soldiers, police officers, etc., to resuscitate the system. All of their tax reforms, 50 amendments to the law, contributions, so let's raise our contributions and drop our contributions, they didn't know what they were doing and now they apologize for not knowing that there was a crisis and that they were doing what they were doing and that no one should blame them, and even when they ran first to sign against what they had brought themselves as their colleague Mrsic did. So I sign against myself everything I've done and we pretend to be smart and everyone else is willing to listen, especially you pensioners who, with everything that we have to fix after them, raised pensions as much as possible, as we raise and pay, but now we see from the unionists that it doesn't suit them, say it's dangerous. When you raise your salary to someone 6%, it's dangerous because that system somehow learned to function. I remember that time when my colleague Mrsic was talking to the unions, if you weren't good, I remember some of them even ended up in prison, I think they were from a medical union or I don't know, boss one, something was. But that's how it was negotiated, and they clapped when it was 67 years old, and that's why we stayed surprised, at least I stayed surprised, and here I have to say, that something that was acquired at the age of 67 brought by Mrsic, in 2019, became a problem and we're returning it now to what was 65 years, when it was going to be, 2034. There's another line to think about her that's going to happen by then. It's just that a few more labour ministers are going to have something to say on this subject and the question is that this whole story is going to end up because we see that when we have 100 good numbers, the only thing that's wrong is the media, the colleagues from SDP, the MOST, etc., all day long to show that this government doesn't know how to do its job, and when we have 100 bad numbers like them, then they're going to ask for one good to talk about it in superlatives, so that the SDP government, tomorrow we see together with MOST, because they're saying they're trying to bring SDP to power, so they're going to talk in superlatives about how they've been doing the whole situation, and today I'm unfortunately saying all we're trying to fix the misunderstanding, even the surprise unions that politically incorrect or dangerously calling the situation where they're trying to raise their salaries by nearly 200 grand in the following year. And instead of doing good to every member of the union that works, it doesn't matter where it turns out that we only have to look at what some unionist is going to say, is it something opportunistic or whether it's not his will or not and of course the strikes have to be looked at in dissatisfaction, because the wages are growing. When they fell, they said everything was great and clapped for 67 years, so today we're surprised what's going on in this world, the theater of absurdity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166389	Thank you, too. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic, but before that we welcome the students of the “Stepan Radic” elementary school from God's gallery. Here you go, dear Mrssic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166390	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, you're a liar and that liar that you can't be bigger show me in one single place that I signed the initiative, that I was at the stand, give me one single statement of mine in the media, and there were those that I said I would sign and that I was for the initiative. I have all the time claimed that 67 years is tangible, that at that time we need to improve the working conditions, the trade unions have agreed to it, and who's to blame you for taking your throat into strawberries, so instead of now saying that you've made a mistake not to touch the Retirement Insurance Act in 2013, that you should continue to separate pensions, separate pensions, who's to blame for you when you've thrown your throat into strawberries and you have to save your prime minister, but don't hide behind me and don't lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166391	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166392	I don't want to act like my colleagues from the Living Wall who said they had the bag for 10 days, but they didn't steal it, so this story of who was talking, we can go back and see who signed it or didn't sign it. I was referring to you being the champion of these 67 years, and today you're the champion against it being still 60. Listen, listen to your statements and your discussions. But there's something else, there's something else I want to ask you. What you've done, but unfortunately you can't answer me. [[Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, ……]] You might find a way. What did you do with a lawsuit that came from the SAO members of the SAO Krajina unit, which came to your ministry in 2014 at the amount of 30 billion kuna, where you put it and did what you did on it, given that with this topic someone today, I also think that you must deal with and what you did as Minister of Work then on this matter? You'll probably have to answer that in these next few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166393	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166394	Dear colleague Boric, you cannot attach what you can attach to your colleagues from the SDP to me, I have not changed my attitudes, but what I would like to stress here. Do you know what the only government that has reduced public debt is, Oreshkovic's government. So 211 million kuna per month, so it cut public debt from 283.6 to 281.7 billion, and 150 million kuna per month your Plenkovic government increases public debt. It's your policy, so early retirement policy, we have an unsustainable pension system you don't want to solve the issue of privileged NOB pensions and false defenders. And why is that? Because it's your electoral body and I'm going to fight against you being in power, both SDP and HDZ. I'll fight against it. And that's how I'm gonna act. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166395	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166396	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, unfortunately I have to deny you, your colleague says last night I will fight for the SDP to come to power, along with Grmoja, Bulja, Petrova, etc., etc. Because obviously, obviously, you've obviously become one pontoon without a shore and you don't know where you'd tie yourself up, whether to the left or to the right. And what you did in that government of Oreshkovic, and everybody knows it and remembers it, at least I was part of it, so you brought down that government, you brought down the government. and simply force everyone to vote to test what you know and you can. [[Come on, please.]] So when you got a second chance and we gave you a chance, you still signed it at the notebook that you wouldn't come with us, but you signed it, so you were, no. After the second occasion, we had to relieve you of all three ministers, remember that secretary give this decision to replace those three MOST ministers, four and Vlaho was removed at the time because you didn't know how to work gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166397	Thank you. You're looking for a break from your colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166398	Dear Vice President, I am asking for a break on behalf of the club to be consulted because it is an annual pension deficit of 17 billion kuna, so we have one strategy implemented both by HDZ and SDP, which is the official model of early retirement, which is still a model that has been painted from the former Yugoslavia in order to buy social peace both SDP and HDZ and our pension system are unsustainable. They don't want to do a review of privileged pensions at all, my colleague Boric here advocated the NOB fighters, so he doesn't want to touch them, nor does Minister Aladrovic want to touch the NOB fighters, I don't know how it is possible that 13,000 are still alive, but I understand why it is. They want to hold the voting machine of these two big parties that are actually one party. I am sure that soon we will all sing together "That party in two parts, you will be whole again" So it is the task of both Mr. Boric and HDZ and those of the SDP, keeping this system that is destroying our country, the only prime minister of the non-partisan man who has been at the head of this state who has been reducing public debt, so I've brought out the exact data, 211 million kunas monthly decrease in public debt, so this prime minister you gentlemen have knocked down, you've voted for his impeachment, and you've come back to the policy of increasing public debt, destroying the pension system where you monthly increase public debt by 150 million kuna. It's your policy, your immigration policy, your destruction policy, your health system, your pension system, and I'm going to fight it hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166399	I think he's looking for a break from the Honorable Representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The presentation of counterparts Boris and his colleagues in Grmoje really requires that we consult at this 10-minute stop So, Mr. Boric came back in 2015 and I'd be back in 2018. [[Maybe I'll give you half an hour.]] You liked it so much when you were 67 that you still put it to be before, so not 2039, but a few years ago, why? Because Minister Pavic had a much nicer presentation than Minister Mrsic. So he had a PowerPoint, and here today on the Ministry of Labour's pages is the presentation of why pension reform, mentioning the cases of teacher Maria and teacher Anna, they mention the answers to the questions and explanations that the pension reform you're canceling with this bill is good. So, there's a case to be consulted about it because now it's about showing that we've brought something that you're fixing. So we brought something that you've made even worse, to be, it was, even last year somewhere at this time, I remember asking that vote to be delayed because you didn't have 76 votes to get that package, 76 was too much, you had 75 votes and Habek held your quorum, then "outao" first time like this chip. Therefore, it was a token reform in this case, and I will also further potentiate that in my individual debate. And to end up with the NOB buddies, a colleague of Grumo, meaning of these 11 818 pensions that are received under NOB, about 9000 are the wife of those who died and were in NOB and the Partisan comrade is only 2000, it's not much, it's still going to live how many years and therefore, I'd like to pray that in that sense, and 5,000 members so-called. Croatian Homeland Army, don't forget them either, here we go. 100 years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166401	Thank you very much. It seems to me that fellow Mrsic is also on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats. It's hard to remember everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166402	The HSS and the Democrats, yes. We are looking for a break of the club on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats because it is obvious that HDZ is trying to draw the public's attention this way that there were several religious and there was a government in 2013 that passed a law that the HDZ had to correct now but the message is very clear, against me and against this government there were no 720,000 signatures collected and against the government of Plenkovic and Minister Pavic and Aladrovic because then the minister had a great influence on that PowerPoint reform and you are not changing this because you changed your opinion and now you want to make the age go by 65, but simply the people told you that. I repeat again, Mr. Boric, against me and against the government where I was sitting, there are no 720,000 signatures in the history of gathering the largest number ever collected. It was collected against your government and against your ministers. And as far as I'm concerned, I've never changed my mind, I thought back then, and today I think it was a good decision, that it was agreed with the unions, that it was agreed with the social partners because we had a long enough period of time to improve the working conditions in Croatia and to make laws that go along with that and, among other things, the Law on Professional Pensions that would take care of soldiers and cops. And speaking of which, don't lie, twist your mind, I've never signed a single document against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166403	Thank you very much. And it seems to me that fellow Vučetic also raised his hand on behalf of the possibly HSU and the independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166404	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Also on behalf of the HSU club and independent representatives and SNAGA, I am looking for a 10-minute break to find a way out of this epistemological or familiar kleptomania because I really don't know which other way, more culturally than this I would call this stealing of every positive learning content and spinning in the party rooms or the rooms of my own mind and this offering to the public as a lie. Those who have destroyed the government say they have not destroyed it, those who have kept positions, functions and chairs say they have not kept positions, functions and chairs and no one is discussing what is needed here. If at this point the most important dead guard of NOB members is most likely to fall by half until the end of this session, then we have serious problems that we are facing and the most serious problem is that this has indeed become a place of epistemological or familiar kleptomania. There is no truth that individual parliamentary representatives are unable to steal, miss through their knowledge apparatus of kleptomania and offer to the public as truth, i.e. as an elixir of the healing of this country, unfortunately, as a state in a bid for such policies to be implemented. Today we are discussing a law concerning age, we are discussing today, not the age of your memory, the continuity of your memory, when someone was in HDZ, SDP, MOST or anywhere, but rather how to discuss the pension system and how to help our citizens cross the other side of the poverty threshold. That's why, because of the citizens who are in this position who are due to knowledge... I'm looking for a break. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166405	Thank you. Stanku asked on behalf of the HDZ Club, I think, too, my colleague, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166406	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club because new historical moments have emerged in terms of the adoption of all current pension insurance laws and with all these amendments and additions. We heard it here now, so we have to discuss it with our colleagues, that Mr. Miranda Mrsic, when he enrolled 67 years in 2014 and when we don't touch it in the changes that when 720 thousand signatures are collected, that it is against us, and not against him, and that we here today have to even apologize in some way for the law that he made then, Bernardic supported, Maras, Glasovac and this whole team, Mrs. Tarritash, etc., everyone clapped it, not now that we're correcting it, we're bad guys, and they're good, and they're still insisting that it was great, but depending on the moment to the moment it fits politically, we'd be a little bit in favour, and we'd be a little against it, and it can't. You can't do both, gentlemen, and simply given that these are new moments, and that a fellow Grumo who is disturbed by the Partisans, no, simply after last night's debate, your colleagues, where she's driving you towards the SDP and she says I'm going to fight with Grmoja and Bol and Petrov to win, it's clear that these are the new moments on the political scene now and that all this needs to be clarified between us here and at the HDZ Club, and we'll probably continue to continue until the end of the debate and see who did what, so it doesn't really turn out to be, I say, at the end, the unions are smiling and saying that it's dangerous when the pay is raised by 6.5%. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166407	Thank you very much. Then, of course, I will have to take a break until 15.20, and after that we will continue because we have two more replicas of the respected representative Orepic and fellow Glasovac at the presentation of fellow Boric. It's 3:10 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166408	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.20 HOURS]] The next replica, dear colleague Vlago Orepić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166409	Mr. Boric, I just wanted to highlight the current genius policies and one, the other, the third, that have led to 625 thousand people below the poverty line. This law does not solve this problem, on the contrary, the trend of people's growth below the poverty line will continue unless we all sit together and come to a common solution that needs to be pursued by consensus. That's where all my remarks go when we talk about this law. So this can't be solved by just one ministry because the safety of our citizens is at risk with this, I'm going to repeat the number of 625 thousand is below the poverty line, and imagine the number of 323 thousand people is up to 2,000 kuna, so unsustainable. These people can't even feed themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166410	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166411	Thank you very much. Coliga Orepić, we are aware of all the problems we have encountered in the pension insurance system and it is not something that every government does not know when it comes to making decisions and it was clear to us already in the pre-election campaign and therefore a colleague reads from the Government programme what we have promised. Did we keep what we promised, I think we did. We said up to 5%, I think we're already over 11%, so it's probably going to move on next year. We also heard the amount in the budget. A billion kunas more than it's been in years, and that must mean something. Let's not underestimate a billion kunas more for pensioners like this. And that's why we're surprised at this kind of debate, especially the people who ran those systems that didn't do anything to make it much better than we do, but they know what to do now, and they didn't know when they should and when they should have, i.e. when they had a chance to contribute something. That's why we're a little critical of them to understand that they can't act from time to time the way they think it's best just because they want a single political point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166412	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. The next replica, counterpart Sabina Vosovac, is not present. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So today's debate was supposed to be a debate about why the government decided to amend the Pension Insurance Act, which led to the 2033, 5 years earlier. That is why the penalisation has been tightened, so it has been forgotten, which is why it was touched by the Pension Insurance Act because the EU Commission has not told the HDZ Government at any time that it is necessary to amend the Pension Insurance Act. What the EU Commission asked for, it demanded that the problem of privileged pensions be resolved, i.e. to solve the problem between working and defending pensions, because it is for the same internship you have, whether you are a defender or you have worked and you are not a defender, there is a different amount of pension and no one can deny that it is not. The difference is that there is a law on Croatian defenders who clearly said that defenders have the right to a certain compensation for what they did, that they put their lives on the line for the defense of their country and that no one doubts it should be so. But what citizens expect, what they expect, and everyone in Croatia who pays in the budget, to make it transparent and clear. And it was transparent and clear in the law that has been since 2013, but the HDZ government, in order to enlist its electoral body to buy the defence votes, immediately abolished that separation and brought it back. To be clear, to be very clear, which means separating defense and labour pensions. This means that every non-employee pension needs to define the part that is paid out of contributions and the part that is the state, that is, in the House, that is the financial compensation for what you have done in life. And for example, by heart, approximately, that if the defender has 35 years of employment, he has a defence pension of, say, 5800 kn, that HRVI, he will receive from the contribution of 2800 kn, and he will receive from the budget 3,000 kuna because that is the part that the state has assigned him under the Law on Croatian Defence. And that was the whole taste of it all, HDZ decided on a completely different strategy, which is to cancel this, not to work, but to satisfy the EU commission and move that retirement from 67 to 2033. And what happened? You challenged the citizens, the unions, you did not negotiate it with the trade unions because, therefore, Minister Pavić did not say anything at any time, which is why it should be done 5 years earlier, why it would not be 2038 and I repeat it again, against the government in which I was minister, against me as the minister who passed the law in 2013, it was passed by the Parliament, it was not collected 720 000 signatures, I repeat, it is the largest number of collected signatures in Croatia's history and what the prime minister could do, it was first believed by Minister Pavić and Minister Aladrović because they were the relatives of these amendments of the laws and then allowed to spend a great number of millions on a campaign that convinced citizens that there was no use of it, that the initiative "67 was too much" was dangerous for the pension system, Minister Pavić said that it would be a loss, that it would be a lot of millions of money, that you would bring it to the security to the government and not to the situation in the situation, which you had not to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do so much of the problem to do so. You claimed it was great because then it would compensate these 45 billion that you now miss in the pension system and overnight you changed it, you had a phone session on Tuesday, we came here on board on Wednesday morning and suddenly the laws disappeared. How can you even be believed that you are so credible that during the night you are abolishing and withdrawing laws that should ensure the stability of the pension system because you must adopt the initiative "67 is too much". When we talk about the pension system, then the pension system should very clearly define that it is the system in which contributions are paid for pension insurance and that these contributions pay the salaries earned by work, the insurance internship and that everything else should be above that system. I also proposed to you the Law on Professional Pensions, so I said that it was wrong, that you would make some new law, two years passed, nothing was done without going back a little bit to the past, who made a 14 billion kuna hole in the 2010 budget? HDZ. Who frozen their pensions in 2010? HDZ. What we could only do at that moment is what we did. We defrosted our pensions, we had to go to cuts in public and state services, and then we said when the situation was better, all we had to do now is to get back and that HDZ is returning through this raise and that the thesis that we took 4.5 billion was clearly drinking on the upside again because nobody took anyone 4.5 billion, all those in that system of the military and police, who are going under their own special law because it provides them with larger pensions, the funds that are in II. The pension pillar is being transferred to the I.P., and everyone, both the military and the police, has had the right to choose whether to stay in that two-stage system or to take this law on the military and the police where they prefer pensions. And it was then done, did not take anything from anyone and yet on the other hand, whether those funds paid by soldiers and cops remained in the funds and that it was spinning and that one day none of them had any use nor those who were going to retire was clear that it was better to put it in the budget at that time because there was no other way out. No one's taken anyone, but there's a part of the people who stayed in I.I. and II. They step very little, namely, when we speak by 2013 no one left the army, from the police to a two-stage pension, all had pensions this favourable, none of them did. So let's be parliamentary about some spillover, and then we're telling the truth because obviously here and here is trying to impute something that is and yet I note, against my government where I was, and against me as a minister, there are no 720,000 signatures collected against the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Pavic and Aladrovic, that's enough message that they did wrong, they didn't need anything, they needed to separate their pensions, and that would be commendable and I would take off their hat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166414	Thank you, colleague Mrsic. Before continuing the debate, I welcome the gallery and welcome the students and students of OS Stjepan Radić from Bogиkovina and their professors and professors. Welcome and pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause.]] We have replicas, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166415	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, now I've recorded a lot of things, of course, this shooting I think is one part of the folklore that we're going to ignore, you've talked about pensions by special regulations, I've actually said today in front of the club, and I agree that we should separate what is a fee and what is a pension, what is a defender paying and what he's got and what he's got, and not to have less than that, possibly and more because it's an injustice that someone has 35 years of training and the same number of days on the battlefield and has the same pension as the one who's had 5 years of internships and the same number of days, it's an obvious injustice. As far as the referendum is concerned, what I have to correct here is that it's not the thesis that the whole reform system is failing, it's about one question, one question of why it went and why it was important to bring it was a 25% supplement issue. So, since this year, when people go to retirement regularly, they couldn't use it from both pillars, and this solution is better than a transfer, this solution is again what I've been saying, give people the right choice, whether they're going to stay in both pillars with 20% and some extra or they're going to go into one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166416	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166417	We agree that the two of us should separate pensions, but obviously that you are not so strong as to achieve this in the coalition with HDZ, but I would stress another problem, that in the 2013 law was a pension that was tied to the internship, so the closer you are to 40 years of work experience, the less your penalization is, and that's what you've agreed with both social partners and it's fair and fine and nothing is caused, the HDZ went through another logic and penalized you whether you're a year before retirement or 5 years, and that's even more penalization that's sharper than the pension in 2013. And I don't see any reason why that was done either because the EU Commission didn't ask you to. And that's what we've been trying all along to get your throat into strawberries and get 720,000 signatures against you, you're on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166418	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166419	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of Mrsic's. 720 thousand signatures have been collected against the 67-year provision that you have entered into the law, and here you have explained to us the reasons, I read from the phonogram, because the Republic of Croatia will need as much activity as possible of older age groups in the labour market. That's when you explained it to us, and don't run away from that that's your provision that you've made. Secondly, it is certain that you took those 4.5 billion soldiers and police officers, and the 3rd thing that interests me, and you did not want to answer me, and I asked, what have you done with the complaint of members of the SAO Krajina regarding their statuses that have been raised in an international court of 30 billion kuna in the period from 2014 to 2016? Why did you throw her in the drawer? Why didn't you do anything and expect such a lawsuit to happen when this government has to deal with it now, right? So explain to us a little bit wider, what did you do, and why did you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166420	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166421	Thank you very much, fellow Boric. As you do not know, the secretary of state did not explain well, so around the pensions of SAO Krajina is a very clear position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the European Court of Justice, who made it clear that they had pension payments during the SAO Krajina and that it was paid out of their fund there, you have the verdict, the position is very clear, this is another attempt by these people to get funds from Croatia for which Croatia is not responsible to pay them, and we have kept Croatia and Croatia's state budget. And that's what your team is expected to do now. It was not put in a drawer but it was sent and answered and it is very clear, the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Justice stood at the position of the Republic of Croatia, that we are not obliged to pay pensions for those who were there. And that's very clear, don't lie again and tell the truth once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166422	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166423	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, there is a phonogram of debate over this 4.5 billion kuna, I spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club and I told you at the time that you were doing it to save the budget and that I could understand you from that side. It's not true that these people were retired at that time, many of them are not retired today, but the thing is that by law, since they go according to special regulations, the moment they retire from the second pillar is when their individual savings are transferred to the first pillar, and that's why I said that you took money from the pension system because these people haven't retired yet and these are simply facts. We can check who said what. And the other thing about the deficit, so in 2012, 13, 14, you had a deficit of over 15 billion kuna, so that's why you did this, so remember what you did... For God's sake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you can't deny some things and only you're right, no one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166424	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166425	Well, fellow Shuker, it's not my fault that SDP and left governments have to clean up... The stables you left behind, so what can I do when that's the case? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about the 4.5 million, the mistake was when soldiers and police officers were placed in the 2nd pension column, you were able to make it right because they weren't enough in the 2nd pension column to get so much money that their pensions from the 1st and 2nd pension pillars were bigger than the law on so, soldiers, cops and everyone else. And they're all going for it. What is quite certain, these 4.5 billion are not, will not lead to them having a smaller pension, they will have a pension that is according to the law, which is a special law, but what I also tried to point out to HDZ and we left the law over, the Law on Professional Pensions which I think Vice President Brkic would very much support, and that means that the Law on Professional Pensions should very clearly define who goes and when retired and then not any of these problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166426	Thank you. I'm moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166427	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing this all day. Of course, when pensions are mentioned, it always causes a debate for one reason and a fundamental reason because an extremely large number of people depend on what is written in the law, how they live, in the extreme line, it is one voting contingent, over a million people. So that's why we're arguing so far, we're spinning around in a circle that was before, which is now, who could and couldn't, who won't now, why won't. There were always certain reasons. So far in Croatian politics there has always been one common thread to talk about while you're in opposition and when you come to power then it's a little different, yet you can't. Absolutely even can be understandable, so we didn't know it was so in a difficult situation, so it's this kind of debt, so we thought this way, we thought that. But all of a sudden when you go into opposition, then everyone's so much smarter, they know how best they're gonna do it. And that's what I've been thinking for the last 30 years, almost 30 years here, that's something that's part of a folklore. But you still have to look at those nuances between who really does something and what the repercussions are. To say something that because of some situation and because of the sustainability of the system, it is important in 2014 and suddenly it is no longer important for me in 2018. Because I'm one of the ones who said that, I want the possibility that I can work longer than 65. And I didn't sign that referendum, I accept the will of the citizens and we accept it. I can even understand that it was partly a revolution or a political statement more than the real and crowded one that made people sign, but it's our fault too. Maybe she shouldn't have gone aggressive with a campaign that revolutionized the citizens rather than let people think for themselves. That's all it would be if it were. We have what we have, we have to respect it. But I, myself, have personally spoken several times in meetings, not penalizing, let's do a bonification, there'll be a problem. 67 used to be 39, so it fell to 31, 32, then 33. At the end of the line, it's the same thing that's getting bigger and it's moved into some oatmeal, and now it's got to go back. The reasons why it went, it's now more or less practically no one's saying, at least not in this part of what I've been here most of the day. Why did we go to that in the first place? Here's a colleague of Shuker's. He read it right here. These reasons have not changed much in 2018. And I want to believe that this government and this state can make it possible for me, for any worker, for whom the market needs to continue and remain operational. It means worker's wish, employer's needs. Don't impose on either one or the other. He needs to know what he can or can't do and what's better if he stays. And I want to believe that on this very trail you will continue to work, not punish anyone because it goes early, because maybe people really can't, they don't have health conditions etc.. And you know how that really works? Those workers that I don't like the one word ugly, ugly, but let's try to avoid it and tell the employees of the individual in the state services who came there as they came and they do what they do and they're not all of us to understand each other, they'd want it by the age of 100, because at such a pace they can also work and live like that, given the God of health. And those who really work for them are 60 too. But my men, the Institute of Long-term Insurance, tell you you don't have a penalization if you're 60 or 41 years old. It's a little manipulative here. Someone who started working at the age of 20 at 61 is 41 years old and has no penalization, will not work until death, or God will give him another 20, 30 years. Now, where are we in all this? Whoever brought it, who cut it short, why, the reasons remain the same. The sustainability of the system. The system of intergenerational solidarity is based on a multiple number of pensioners, as it can function. By adding 25% to replace the Institute of the 10 best years in the calculation of the pension, which increased linearly and finally came to 25% we had the injustice that people who were forced to go into a two-stage pension and were born 1.1.1967 would actually not have spent enough time in the second pillar so that it could still be capitalised and it did not increase to 10% as it should in the original plans since 2002 and further because it stopped and fixed to 5 and of course people had a drastically smaller pension without that supplement. And they are now allowed not as in the first proposal that they can either do one or the other but to be proportionate whether you want from both pillars or from one, so you switch to this one, then you get 25% to the full amount, or you get 25% to what you're paying in the first column. And that's a good suggestion, and I don't think anyone mentions it anymore, and that's where we solved a huge potential injustice that we could solve in 2016, for example. We could've done it in 2017, we could've done it in 2013, we could've done it whenever because we knew it, it didn't surprise us like that. And now, so first of all, we had an injustice that I don't know if it was still solved about those who went through that old system that we were going to get them back, and that was 30 of those engineers that went into retirement in early 2018 and were so forced. The one who left a year ago had and I don't know how many pensions larger than 1000 kuna or what. I don't know if it touched or if it did, but I'd like to get information on whether they were trying to get involved in any model. But generally, we have to do something for generations, my generations and younger and those middle ages that will certainly be on a scale between both pillars or one-stop shop about some average incomes we speak about and sustainability of the system. We can't get out of everybody's budget that's one intergenerational solidarity squared. Because not only does it finance pensions with its contributions but also its taxes, because contributions are not enough, obviously, but it is then taken into tax, it is taken from all and from those who are already retired. So those who retire pay for themselves and other pensioners. I mean a nonsensence that will eat and eat itself at the end. So that's why we have to think, so I'm not and I don't like to succumb to this 67 is too much, 65 too little, 68 don't let God work to death. Let's make a system that will gradually lead us to sustainability and leave like this, make another. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute system is all but the word insurance. He doesn't operate by those rules, it's not that anymore, he can be called whatever you want but it's no longer Croatian, it's not that insurance principle as a insurance house anymore. It does not make any revenue based on, or any financial revenue based on, these payments, it does not go into the budget, it has transferred everything to the state, it has nationalised and now stands and records and issues solutions. Just one piece of his job, not the one in total he needed. Is that how it's supposed to be? No, I don't. Do we want to transfer it to the private sector? I'm glad we agreed together to have a pension insurance company that we have another one to go into retirement, to introduce a competition game, and to cut those entry costs, fees and calculations that we've changed. And that's changed and it's done. Of course it doesn't matter. And she's my so-called. Payout on retirement from the second pillar, that means something. All those who have accepted an available pension this year, 50 percent of them took that 15%. Of course, I hope sometimes there will be more. These are the things we need to think about, let's try to strengthen that part, if the state doesn't have the strength to have an insurance house that will invest in the market and money, let's move it to the market as it should, and leave that sustainable minimum. So there's a lot of problems, and that's why it requires it, and of course it's always causing a big debate, a million people, millions of votes, not living people well, not having enough money, they're very sensitive to that question, and then we're trying to figure out who it is, what it is, where you're going, we've been looking at the whole same story for years and decades. We stand there like this between, we understand one, we understand the other, we support one, we support the other, we give our imputes, we try to do something as much as we can, I would also be happy that we can set up a strategy in 17 areas and condition all living things, but then that wouldn't lead us anywhere. It is known that our main priorities are both political action and we insist on it, and here we all contribute and, of course, work together on how to achieve a better solution. And I think that this solution was almost in the right direction, some things could have been better, had to listen to the citizens and now let's do what's reasonable and normal to try to go a little bit and raise awareness of financial literacy and care for that third age and pension and their payments, as much as can be expected to already know if they have such a salary that they will have so much pension under such current regulations. Nobody's thinking about it today, let alone anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166428	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Vlaho Orepić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166429	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, at this debate today, we see how inefficient the policy is based on the conflict of the worldview, so I hope that the citizens will finally understand and turn to the policies that solve the real problems of life. The success of every society is proportionate to its solidarity. We're talking about a million and 250 grand about our pensioners, half of which is, remember, half below the poverty line. It's worrying that it can't be any more worrying than that, and we all need a red light to turn on, and we need to react immediately spotlessly, not some solution that will give us some kind of solution in a few years or not to say decades. The arrangement of the pension system, ladies and gentlemen, we choose whether we are truly a solidarity society, whether we are a righteous society, whether we are a safe society at all. I note of these 625,000 of our fellow citizens 323,000 have pensions under 2,000 kuna, these people are life-threatening, it's no longer a question of this law, it's a matter of the safety of these citizens, it's a question of whether we are healthy people who decide about these angry people, it's a matter of political priorities. We have no right to spend at this moment on nothing, absolutely nothing until we give these people back theirs, until we provide them with an elementary existence. That is how we should approach this solution. So far, policies have taken place, I repeat that out of the total number of pensioners we have more than 50% exactly 52% and 625,000 people below the poverty line. My people remember that. These people are poor, they can't round up this food and the basic needs of life in a month, none of them. It cannot be fed within one month of that receipt. So we need to change our priorities completely. This solution is unfair. Unjustly because he gives pensions to people who haven't earned it, means pension, if we give pensions, pensions should go to those who have filled those funds, let's say it in a banal way. All other things, means total pensions must be based on what they have earned from those who have worked for their pensions or from the state. It means how capable we are as a society, as a state, that we can care for certain groups of people we want to care for or that we want to reward. That's the right approach. So pensions have to be the result of someone's work, whose work we can't invent, we can't borrow further or I don't know what problems we have in our own structure. So we're unfair to the pensioners themselves. What nobody mentioned today and I want to point out, which is that up to this way of passing laws is disrespect to the state. We're passing the law in a hurry procedure. Watch out for the rush procedure. Okay, it was formally covered at the adoption of the agenda, most in the assembly okay. We're passing a law that needs to be a matter of consensus, actually. It's not burning anywhere, the state's not in danger. To make it even worse, we shorten e-consultation to 15 days, counseling on this law that is so important, crucial, crucial, only lasts 15 days. We're amazing. We don't have an impact assessment. Look, we're saying we're going to make an impact assessment through two years of application of this law, and this is the third change of law just backwards in a year. So this is the third change of pension law a year back and we're going to make an impact assessment for the next two years. Well, we're really not normal. Let us stop being irresponsible to citizens, or to our own country. What, why am I saying that? We don't allow such important matters to be discussed in a parliamentary manner. In 2012, the Constitutional Court itself is what it is, even they have warned us that we are jeopardizing parliamentary democracy, gentlemen. We don't allow opposition to you or the position or the opposition to discuss such an important matter at all. You can't take part with 15 days of counseling and say that you've been communicating with the professional and interested public. It's irresponsible, not to say the hard words. Next, this is a misrepresentation of citizens, not funny, Mr. Shucker. It's not funny. This is a misrepresentation of citizens. So 132 e-consultation interventions are not respected at all and we're saying that we're going to come up with some kind of social dialogue with an interested professional public. Let's get serious, we're jeopardizing parliamentary democracy. The only thing left for the people is the law and democracy. So the right to an honest election that I was talking about last time because it's wrong from 250 fake residences and we're still passing by the hasty procedure of the law. Of the 500 and some of the laws passed this year, do you know how respected she is with a full procedure? Not even 10%. That's what the whole civilized world is warning us about. So we simply can't regulate the Retirement System Act, or the pension system, even by law in a hurry procedure without an impact assessment. You don't even know how this law is going to affect those who write it. We're just putting out one political fire at a political moment, that's reality, we all know that. Let's leave this political concept that's based on that logic. Let's really solve the problems of our citizens who sent us here to do this. We can't re-vote each other in such an important situation. ... When it comes to health care, it's never a matter of pension system, or safety or anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are areas that must be publicly well, where we must seek consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to withdraw this law, to open up a debate so that we can all come together to a quality solution in accordance with the possibilities we have and to go out and tell people that's something real that we can do. At this point we can't waste money on not knowing anything, we have to provide these people with an elementary existence. They don't have it right now. 323 thousand men under 2,000 kuna, my people, do you know what it is? These people don't have bread till the end of the month. So that's the approach we have to solve. Of course, it should all be within the limits of the possible. How? It's not just gonna increase the revenue side. Right, you should, but you know what to do? The spending side needs to be reduced. We should give up a whole system of unnecessary, say, county. Here's our money right now, we don't need to buy I don't know what kind of luxury now compared to insurance of the elemental existence of 625 thousand of our fellow citizens of these millions and 250 thousand pensioners, my people, 98%, or almost 99% of them have a pension less than the average of pay. Less. It's an alarming state, it's no longer the subject of your ministry alone this is an object and a ministry, a complete government. And to point out, this is our society's security problem. Let's not vote over, pull this back, let's be responsible once because we're all responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166430	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Marko Vučetić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166431	Thank you. My dear colleague, you have spoken one great and sad truth, a worrying one, which is that this is a security issue. Poverty is something that is sometimes referred to as state terrorism in literature. When the state turns to its citizens in a way that after its action, poverty is not about anything but about state terrorism. At least from this short-term beginning of 30 years as an independent state that the state is not only a territory, it is for those who are infected with dog genes, so they need the same thing as dogs to mark the territory and protect it from others but those who instead of dog genes realized that our way of action is human then they will fight to make the state social, and countries as social institutions do not exist if there are poor. Let us bear in mind that these are the poor who are permanently poor because they are of a third age.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166432	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Orepic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166433	Dear colleague, you're absolutely right, and if anything should be considered immediately at the National Security Council session, it's these 625 thousand people who are below the poverty line, it's just saying how we don't respect our own country, how much we don't do the work we should be doing. In that context, I support everything you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166434	Thank you. Next line, Marco Squirt. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166435	Thank you, Vice President. So here's a colleague of Orepić's in your debate you've noticed well that we actually have an impact assessment over two years of such an important, cruel, as you yourself said the reforms we bring here. We had that package of laws that applied to the pension reform that the minister of the former soul defended, so now it's given up because of the pressure of the citizens' initiative, we had the same case, the same impact assessment over two years, through another important one, and I'm going to say one more strategic reform, and that's tax reform. We go to some kind of experiment all the time and then what happens then we're going to do it, and then we're going to evaluate it in two years when we're going to see what the effects are. Instead of doing a previous impact assessment here, just in reforms like this, in retirement, in tax, we're doing a previous impact assessment, we're going into two readings, so we're going to discuss these things, and then, anyway, I'm not going to tell them by consensus, but we're still going to pass one quality and good law, or package of laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166436	Thank you. Answer, colleague Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166437	A respected colleague, this way of passing the law points to a major disease of parliamentary democracy, and that is the real rule outside the state's institutions. We have the authority, the real power, the real power we need to get back to this high house and all the levels of power that I am now not doing. So impact assessment is a legal obligation, so the law requires how laws are passed. All you've done today is play the law. It's technically satisfying, so it's satisfied, hands are up. We don't respect the fact, we don't respect the fact that for a law like this, it would be a fundamental courtesy to discuss such an important topic at two sessions, two sessions, that we simply get one broad consensus of the interested expert public and all colleagues in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166438	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166439	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start my discussion with a conversation I had a few years ago with a fellow librarian at school, my former workmate. He did not spend much time working in Germany and then we were talking about the situation in the Republic of Croatia related to the economic situation, with the situation of pensioners, workers, said the following, in the Republic would be better the moment he who works will get more than he who does not work and when he who has worked longer gets a bigger pension than he who has never worked. As long as the reverse situation in the Republic of Croatia is not going to be good. In fact, I agree with my colleagues and colleagues who have warned already in previous discussions that this is an extremely important, important issue because although these are now amendments to the law that was passed last year, it is said constantly and it is mentioned as a pension reform. And in the Republic of Croatia, although the word reform has experienced a steady inflation because no one believes when you mention the word reform anymore. We can say for the pension reform that it is a crawling reform, it is a constant reform and believe it will not stop, it will continue and after this government and the next Government will face these problems because simply the topics and we see from the content and these legal changes concern our closer or further future. What's changing with these changes now? So the retirement pension returns to 65 years and 15 years of internship instead of the proposed 67 last year. There is an extension of a time in which women will be able to qualify for retirement by the end of 2029, early 2030, early retirement from 60 years, and 35 years of internships instead of 62 years return to 60 years. And the retirement pension to an annual insurance company remains for 60 years instead of 61 years, which was forecasted in 2027. These are the key things, we see that it all comes down to essentially a reduction by two years. And we need to point out once again that the 67 citizens' initiative has just asked too many of these demands, requiring a reduction in the pension of 0.3 to 0.2% per month of the previous retirement, so that it turns out that the minister initially said 2.4% per year or 12% for leaving 5 years earlier in retirement. And these are the things that this law adopts and respects the demands of the citizens' initiative. And that's good, that's good to bring. What is not good, what are colleagues, here is counterpart Orepic warned, it is an assessment of the effects of the laws of this law. I, we could say, here's what the former minister has now mentioned that it could cost 45 billion kuna. So let's say it's the weight of these re-penalizations. But I point out once again, Minister, believe me, you're a young man, I appreciate you, I believe you know how to count well, you have a team of people around you who also know how to count, they know how to judge things, you have economists, the thing is certainly not so literal and simple. The matter will have to be more subject to a deeper analysis. What I wanted to resent in the legal explanation of the adoption by emergency procedure reads: “For particularly justified reasons, that is to say, to avoid any additional costs incurred for the state budget by holding a state referendum regardless of its outcome.” Democracy rests on these very models, mechanisms and one of the mechanisms is a referendum. You mustn't, not to say so, it's not good to write in the law to give up the law because, yes, the referendum must cost democracy, but democracy, the referendum expresses the will of the citizens, and that is why this should not be written in the law. But let's go back to the key things I want to say. Here, some experts point to the following. Be careful, in 2002, it's far behind us now, and then we're actually going into this crucial pension reform of the introduction of the second pillar. It is true today that many economists disagree, many attack it, many say that we should move it, that we should return to only one pillar. I am one of those who believes that the second pillar can liven up and that in the future it can achieve a significant step in the pension system. The assessment is of experts, if the second pension pillar is increased, by one percentage point, so was the intention, Mr Shuker said that, with economic growth ranging from 4% to 5%, it was planned. By 1% if the securitisations increased to the second pillar would cause current people who are now moving into the world to increase their pension by 20% in the future. It's not small things, it should be calculated. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot, of course, you can't know now, but it is the Government that is why it is chosen and therefore doing the job to ensure economic growth. That's the key. Former Minister Pavic explained and assured the citizens that this is necessary, that an increase in the rest of the world of work is necessary for these reasons of demographic bad imagery and because people live longer and longer. Someone here mentioned he paid huge amounts, so good, and then why don't the citizens believe it? The teachers strike the prime minister said on several occasions we have no money, we cannot split the budget like that, on the other hand he said we should not even now when it comes to collective negotiations, but even teachers do not trust the prime minister that there is no money. Something is deeply wrong. If citizens don't believe what the government is suggesting, and the government says it's doing it for good citizens, then we have a systemic problem. And what's going on? The prime minister said yesterday we're going to increase by 6% and we're going to drop the VAT rate by 1%, and I told him yesterday, and if he raises his salary, it's going to increase the VAT tax revenue. Is that long-term good? We don't know that, but at this point, these revenues are going to increase, and there will be an increase in the allocation for contributions from these salaries that will rise. And what are we ultimately trying to achieve? So that this circle infuses economic growth. And what is economic growth based on in the Republic of Croatia? Well, it's based on personal consumption. We have dropped industrial production, unfortunately we are at risk if tourism gets in trouble one year, but at this point our economic growth is based on consumption. And that's why I think the second pension post needs to be revived. You need to do everything now while you're a minister and in the future some new minister to get the second pension column to live and to really start being what it is, otherwise you have to tell the citizens that this model is going to give up. This is how we stick to it, let's say it like that, I think you're a Slavonic too, so we've got a bag of wheat and we're gonna tie it up and we're gonna keep it tight, so there's not gonna be anything, let's do a quarter or half of it and we're gonna sow the bags, there's gonna be a new wheat. Let's do something to get things going. I told that replica in the introduction, the pension funds were true last year were reduced investment limits, but pension funds it was intended to fertilize that capital to be invested somewhere. I don't know, Australia or Canada they have a very good deal on that. They even saved the economy because these pension funds placed money in other countries. And finally, it's not just a question when I'm talking about the pension system in general about the economic situation and the future of the pensioners, it's a question of the general government's position on everything. So why don't banks pay enough interest taxes? In my opinion, they don't pay. You go to the bank of a mother here by foreign banks, there's a 2 per cent loan with us at 6%. Somewhere that difference ends. That's where the Prime Minister has to stand. We can think about the Prime Minister of Hungary about Viktor Orban, but he did it there. The government needs to do everything to protect its citizens, to allow pensioners as good a standard as possible to increase pensions, believe it will go into consumption. Another suggestion, I looked at the pages, there's an official request for a previous pension calculation, it would be good if you made more contact with the citizens because when people retire, they see these four models that will make the model so people can't manage it. They can't quite figure out what's better for them, and then usually people go away for the last few days with a pension request. Try some kind of education to start at least a year early, to collect papers, that the moment you need to retire that you can issue a solution, is this how we hear that some people are waiting for solutions for six months or a year? I don't know if that's true, but it's unacceptable for people in that time to live. There's still a lot of things that are marked by injustice in the pension system, I have so much time, I only mention one more, when we're talking about defenders' pensions, you see now with the recognition of the internships for people's protection, those who have already solved you can't exercise that right, and those who are going to retire can. And that's one injustice. They are advised to go away for six months, let their retirement be suspended, and after six months they will be reassessed. That's not how the serious state works. These things have to be heard from citizens and they have to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166440	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166441	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sagar, you see you said a referendum should not be prevented, a referendum should be held, but unfortunately our government is running away from the referendum as the devil from the incense all the time, I don't know why. An excuse could be money to cost it. However, why in today's digitalisation era we do not launch all our resources to allow citizens to plead digitally in the referendum through their email addresses. Why don't we let the election happen that way? Why don't we prescribe that the election is mandatory for all of us? The government does not want such elections, it does not want referendums because in such polling places and in such a way as to organise the citizens' vote, it would show something quite different than we do today in society as a representation of the will of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166442	Thank you. My colleague Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166443	Thank you. My colleague Alexic, therefore, mentioned in my debate, actually wonders the level of mistrust of citizens in institutions, mistrust in us people who deal with politics, high levels of mistrust, and then because of this level of mistrust even then do not participate in the elections, they say, and what I can't change anything anyway will remain the same. And I believe that today's technology, what you're saying, makes it possible, and I guess that already the response would be people to both the election and these initiatives, so that citizens would decide more in so-called. direct democracy. Just one correction, I didn't say that in this case the government is not preventing the referendum from being held but accepting the demands, it's just not good to write that it's because the referendum costs. Is democracy the one that needs to be financed by the citizens' opinion because it is the only time that citizens live democracy, that they feel it on their skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166444	Thank you, dear colleague. Next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, state secretaries, ministry officials, colleagues and colleagues, no government will allow itself in the election year to call a referendum in which its reform would be buried with 80 per cent of the vote against, so neither will this one, and that is logical. Here is one of the logical decisions of this Government, and for this reason we are having a debate today on this proposal for the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law based on the referendum initiative "67 is too much" set out in the business processing of this law. I have to say, I don't agree with those discussions that had objections to the emergency procedure either, I don't agree with those discussions that no consultation with the public was conducted properly, not even with this part that a referendum should be called. I think that the government has announced the capitulation before the unions and that according to the signed truce, it is doing what it has committed itself to. The alternative is to make a decision about calling a referendum, and they won't. Now let's talk about content. I am otherwise a slightly larger supporter of parliamentary democracy because I think that we have a little too liberally arranged the 2010 referendum initiative so that we now occasionally suffer the consequences of these pre-liberal solutions, but while they are and are in place to respect them. I would remind you that on the agenda somewhere in the gaps below 100 points is a proposal for constitutional changes that 50 and some MPs have sent. Some of them are MPs of the parliamentary majority, so when the government gets tired of suffering defeats in this area of referendum initiatives, then let them come forward and we'll discuss it. The Croatian Parliament in this assembly was established in 2016 in October, several days after the constitution was voted upon by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, but in fact I believe that this government was created in June 2017 when HNS entered the coalition and MOST came out of it. There was then a provision to go to retirement at the age of 67 and to take effect in 2039. Then, in October 2018, the first reading parliament adopted a pension reform, that it was a little more stringent, so that basic reform from 2013 or '14. HDZ and HNS years have served. And that was the trigger in December 2018, the law was passed in the second reading, the reform came into force on 1 January 2019, and it was the trigger for the unions to start collecting signatures and they started collecting them in April 2019. What does the government and most of them do? They're doing a campaign of propaganda, marketing why what the unions are looking for is inconclusive, impossible, bad, our system will fall apart, etc., they're mentioned amounts of over 40 billion kuna. It is now said in this bill that the law in 2020 will cost 35,700,000 kuna and in 2021. 91,700,000 kuna, yesterday's announcement by the prime minister of 6% in the next year alone, billions and 200. So that's about 3-4% in 2020 of the total amount of what the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, said yesterday. That's what the money was for. Secondly, discussions began on whether the referendum initiative was in accordance with the Constitution, whether a referendum could be called, etc., so the second line of the government's counter-attack was also shot down. So this marketing part, the political part, has been stopped by enough and too many signatures being collected, and this legal section is also broken in a way that is not at all considered to refer the issue to the Constitutional Court. When the government found that a sufficient number of signatures had been collected, it also announced that it would accept the union's demands and that, therefore, the resistance had been broken, a truce was requested, it was called capitulation in the war, so Italy capitulated in '43, so it realized that resistance was in vain and demanded a truce from the Allies and began to debate the terms of the truce. The government then went along with this law to refer several more laws to encourage later retirement. We had it on the agenda and on the draft agenda of some committees and today's plenary sessions, but then she gave it up, and that will be discussed later. My impression is as I had a firm, firm opinion that the referendum would not come and the union's demands would be accepted, so it is now that it will slowly cover the snows, rosemary and chess. So, in 2020 and 2021, it's going to get kind of thundery, let's do '20, and then when we get closer to '30. And then some other government will deal with it if it needs to be done. So if she didn't have Minister Pavic, who obviously acted provocatively on the unions and managed to further motivate them then it would, then any changes would have gone relatively painlessly. So let me get this straight. We have two options to pass this law and, or call a referendum. I would personally like to call a referendum, but as I am aware of the reality that it will not happen then I would bow down to this first opportunity, and of course I would try and, as skillful and successful as I am in it, expose any attempt by the parliamentary majority to now try this ball, the ball back to our sixteenth, this is your game, in it you are defeated, there will be new games you may win, you may never know, but as one politician from this space has said a long time ago, this was not our war, with you or with the unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166446	Thank you. Dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you say you would personally like to hold a referendum. You had the opportunity to be impertinent as a minister and call and pass the Law on monetization, monetization of highways, you had the opportunity to make a decision on the law... So you gave up on one and the other before the Constitutional Court said that such questions, that such a question could not be decided at the referendum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You, too, were then given the opportunity to be impertinent as a minister of administration and go into it. You're not. You're the brave one who retreated. So, you've withdrawn both decisions now suddenly you're crying over not holding a referendum, and I'm having a little bit of it, and I have to say it's weird.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166448	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166449	I'm not crying over failure, I'm just saying I'd be happier, not not crying, so Mr. Honorable Representative, I'm not crying. As for the opportunity to be as saucy as you say, I took every opportunity there was, when I was supposed to be alone and when I shouldn't be, I wasn't, and that's how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166450	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166451	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, and I welcome the representative of the government. Here's this previous debate is kind of a prelude and that's why my individual debate is going to be short, and that's because we and this item of the agenda have turned into a polygon of distribution of emotions from crying to happiness. Everyone was trying to find themselves in some emotional state so that I almost feel and I guess it's the only feeling that I have heartlessly because I can't after today's debate, not that I can't find any positive or negative emotion but I can't even remember what those emotions are called. I lost the concept or the concept of emotion because of the senselessness of such debates. This is about simple reality and it's the reality that it's been trying to develop a single pathetic of imaginary solidarity since 9.30 p.m. It is nothing but a pathetic and pathetic state in which we are trying to empathically connect with those who are our victims and who are victims of our policies. All those who suffer because of these laws, all those who go through the reality of poverty are victims of our emotions and there is no need to or, mainly that the laws do not contain emotion but reason, and let's keep in mind, that's what I said in one debate and when we realize that each of our individual wills and every individual sense that it is incorporated into the law I think we have reason to be deeply concerned with what is waiting for us. We need to develop mental activities, logoize reality, or find meaning rather than false pathetics. If we leave this false pathetic aside, there's one truth about this law, and it's true that it's been lost and minimally connected to the citizens. Due to the disappearance of the public connection trail, it has happened to capitulate the political will of citizens organised in the referendum initiative. It's the only truth that makes us bring this law today. It is not due to the previous or current government for this law but because of what happened to citizens as a reflection of injustice and reflection on what is the minister who because of this law that we are now changing has stopped being a minister. This minister, I call him this in some kind of intimate mood over Pavić because he imagined he was out and above the reach of the citizens. Nietzsche wrote something about the superhuman, apparently he had eyes over Pavic, who believed that he could impose with a decree, through direct procedure, ignoring the very possibility of establishing dialogue and colluding that he could impose on his individual epiphany or the epiphany of this government an important law that provoked the public, provoked it to such a degree that a referendum initiative was created that resulted in the change of this law. This law is nothing more than the voice of citizens that politicians who have imposed on citizens have become capitulants in front of citizens. It's not about capitulation as the current state from which it can be derived, it's about capitulation as a permanent state, the capitulation of a policy that I call capitulation policy in front of citizens. So this law is nothing but this. We're in the 21st century, it's the century of information technologies, a century where biotechnology develops, warning of the danger of a complete biosphere disappearing. And in Croatian society we face another danger, which is that we run out of society because of poverty and because of our laws that are unable to make fair distribution of material goods, which are not able to protect employment and allow man to live from his own work. Living from your own work is also the design of your own life. We are in an almost anachronous capitalism situation where we expect capitalism to emancipate us but at the same time that capitalism will destroy us. It's something that doesn't match the 21st century. The 21st century is a century that develops a liberal view of capitalism and also develops a social view of the state. We should have a social state. We should not define with capitalistic enthusiasm, determine social justice and pension reform, but rather develop a positive social emotion, not this overplay that is taking place in the assembly today, but a positive emotion called policy of concern, to take care of each other. But I've already talked about irony, and I find it interesting from the ironic point of view, and that's from 9.30 a.m. we're standing here with each other. Keep in mind that from 9.30 a.m. to the day you've all mixed your lives with each other and earned your salary, this salary will turn into a pension. Your decisions will follow you, our decisions will follow us, our views will follow us, and we will experience social justice in our old age. If we do not realize that these mechanisms of the state are not a polygon for our games, games never grown boys and girls but as one serious instrument in which we can define and determine someone to live a civil life, then everything has indeed gone to ruin, and this collapse today was present in what I originally titled as a pathetic of imaginary solidarity. Let us forget this imaginary solidarity and see how we can truly cooperate with our citizens, and then we will free ourselves from the complex so that we can see not on Pavić and Plenkovic, but on the divinity that comes here and with our own will announce whether and how much raise there will be. It's not a problem with the raise, what you said about unions refusing 6%, is that more than what they were looking for, it's not about 6%, it's a problem in ways, procedures, methods and the ultimate purpose and the meaning of what the prime minister should serve. And he doesn't serve to play in the deity, do you know how bad it really is, or do you know how much? It succeeds in being 6,12% of the god, quite enough to please you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166452	Thank you, colleague Vučetic. We have replicas, dear colleague Marco Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166453	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of mine who would agree with you if it were actually one if we were in general looking at the success of citizens, the success of a citizens' initiative whose points I believe that no political option should be taken credit for. But what I might ask you for is one comment, do you think such initiatives can be successful after all, I will say a stream of hope that people are looking for today in this one general apathy, a general disappointment that we must recognize for ourselves exists with political elites both in Croatia and across Europe, for one society of the future I will say, not the capital dictates all sorts of deadlines of development but in the first place will be human?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166454	I thank my fellow Vesligai. The answer of colleague Vučetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166455	I have to start with something that might surprise you, and it seems to me that you're predidealistic, even for my view and what I'm dealing with, it seems to me that idealistic things you're looking at, but if we bring this idealism down to real contexts then we could start with a social self-awareness and realize that a country of 4.5 million people or less can't function on the principle of imaginary statesmen or statesmen in their imagination rather than at the level of one state's work. If we imagine acting as a city state, do we have only 4 million inhabitants, that the main issue of our problems is that they are communal problems. So we have mayors even in this assembly whose cities I think eventually have two blocks of asphalt. It's a parody-rony situation. We can only develop human policies if we are ready to understand our current state, and this is the state of the small community... statesman. [[The speaker is not understood because of the vice president's announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166456	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166457	Thank you. Dear colleague Vučetic. You mentioned in your speech the social state and the participation of citizens from the government. So there is no social state, there is no cooperation, no communication between citizens and authorities if there is no trust. We've seen these days that trust doesn't exist. In fact, everything that is said to citizens is suggesting that there is no money, that there is no money for their salaries, that there are no pensions, that they have to work longer in the water because citizens have to build up a state apparatus, that the number of employees in that state apparatus is growing, that it is not effective and that citizens rightly think and think that they are being deceived and therefore seek their rights on the street through civil initiatives and through strikes. If cooperation were better, if the real truth were really shown to the citizens, we believe that no situation like this would happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166458	Thank you. The answer of colleague Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166459	The trust of a respected colleague is a key issue, but how will we build trust when union representatives as legal representatives and legitimate representatives of workers, employees negotiate with the government and the government says there is no money. And after that, the prime minister comes to you in form of nonsocialization as a completely social entity that hasn't spoken to anyone, and says at the pay phone, I'm giving everyone 6.12%. When citizens say they are looking for a raise, the government does not have as a collective body, when the prime minister comes as an associate prime minister, a prime minister who has not spoken to the government or to the citizens, nor to the parliamentary deputies, nor to the club of representatives, but surprises you all by knowing that he has money and because he wants it, it is not possible to build trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166460	I thank my colleague. We also move on to the closing words on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected assistant ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I applied for a word on behalf of the HDZ club after my colleague, Bauk, in his debate, practically continued the debate that was held for the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System when, according to the government's decision to which the initiative "67 was too" collected a sufficient number of signatures, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System gave the Government 60 days, and, according to the announcement that this law would be delivered to the Croatian Parliament within that time period, we gave a deadline of 60 days so that the Government could then submit such a bill to the Croatian Parliament, which practically does not need to call a referendum. What is important to say, and what Mr Podolnjak was talking about, and later on, colleagues of Bauk, is that he is trying to impute the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this ruling majority that he wants to avoid the referendum in this way and for the reason that the decision taken in the referendum, which would concern pension reforms, is then and can only be changed in the referendum. So, according to Mr Podolnjak's position today, and also according to what was already under discussion on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, if such a referendum issue or amendments to the law were in fact what this referendum issue is and meant to decide on a referendum, then it could only be changed in a future referendum, which is not true. Article 8 The law on the referendum is prescribed that the competent national authority, in this sense, is the Croatian Parliament, cannot adopt an act that would be contrary to the spirit of such a referendum issue within a year. So, according to the fact that there was a referendum in this case, the Croatian Parliament would be able to decide again after a year on pension reform and change it the way the government, or the ruling majority, would think it was opportunized for Croatian society at that time. So that's one answer. And the second answer was by us from the HDZ Club of Representatives that it is not true that the Croatian Parliament is obliged to call a referendum after a total of at least 10% of voters are collected. So, if the act in the Croatian Parliament adopts the spirit or the full text of the referendum issue itself, the need for a national referendum ceases. Therefore, neither is it true, nor is it true that the referendum must be called when 10% of voters are collected, if the government intervenes in this way what has just happened in this case. And the other thing is not true that the decision taken in the referendum can no longer be changed in any other way than in the direct statement of citizens because it is not in line with the referendum law. Therefore, there is really no need for a referendum in this way, nor when it comes to the financial part nor does it make sense if the government decided with such a law to fully accept the referendum issue, and it was not in fact a very simple referendum issue, but as you can see it is a complete amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. I believe that in some near future, whether it is 5, 10, 15 years is likely to question the justification of an extended years of life for staying in the world of work. At this point clearly there is no such political will, and I personally think that the government's position is fully justified after more than 700,000 signatures have been collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166462	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. On behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166463	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues in the first row, I would like to say that the text of the law does not stand in the position that here is the referendum, because it would cost a lot, and that there is no point in throwing money at the referendum, so the government will take that step to resolve this by changing the law. This law is, in fact, the capitulation of the government in front of common sense and what we told them all along that they are not doing what they are doing because it is certain that these changes in the Pension Insurance Act will not change any smart government in the future. And even when there is a need for it, but what is likely to happen is that we will have a referendum in Croatia. We'll have a referendum in 5 or 10 or 15 years to extend the retirement age. And the government, or Prime Minister Plenkovic, has no choice at all, as much as you are now trying and fellow Shuker explaining that there is a HDZ fulfilling its pre-election promise to return to 65 years, that under the pressure of 750,000 signatures, the highest number of signatures for a referendum in Croatia's history, these were signatures on the government more than on the initiative itself. And it is certain that this will remain remembered in the analysis of democracy in Croatia that HDZ has received a very clear message from citizens about how they think about how the state is run and how their young ministers Pavic and Aladrovic imagine the pension system. You can't say that you're changing this to avoid only the cost of the referendum, you'd have political damage, and that's clear to you. The referendum would be at the time of the election for the President of the Republic, your candidate should at least be a referendum at the time of the campaign and you had no choice. But you had a choice before. It was a very clear message from the union where the unions told you very clearly, don't do it, but obviously the haughtiness and heroism of young labour ministers and the pension system, has led the prime minister to the position that there is no choice now, it has to change it in the Assembly, Croatia will have a period to retire at 65 years, and yet, on the other hand, I did not, I did not understand why you went further to the pension when there was no need for it, because the citizens of Croatia did not go to early retirement because they wanted to or because they wanted to, rather than what the angry force had forced them to do, the employer forced them to leave and to retire, and all of these citizens made it very clear to you when they signed the referendum initiative and this referendum initiative was also an initiative against pensions under special regulations. The trade unions didn't have the courage to put that question in as a referendum issue, and that would be the right answer to these questions because 67 years will probably take place in our future, probably I won't experience it, but it's absolutely certain that this issue will be asked and that it will have to be resolved by a referendum because you have done what you have done recklessly and no government, Mr. Bacic will dare to change it without a referendum, and it is absolutely fine, right Mr. Podoljan that this question that enters into the law that has been settled with the signatures and would just want to see that government that would dare change that in the future. And quite certainly, we're going to go back to the referendum in time, whether in Croatia we're going to be working at 67 years or not, and all of this was completely unnecessary if you hadn't done what you were doing, you should have left the law since 2013, no one forced you to do it, it was a very clear warning from the union, but obviously you think that unions are lower species than your HDZ, then what happened to you happened to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166464	I thank my colleague. We have a final word on behalf of the promoter, the respected minister, Mr. Aladrovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166465	Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs, the respected representatives of HS. I'd hate to repeat most of what I exposed at the beginning of this debate. What I would like to mention, so from today's debate which was very interesting, I would say, we could see the complexity of the pension system, we could see how many open topics there are, how many different attitudes there are and how much this complexity directs us into making some decisions. What we must stress very clearly, therefore, in the pension reform at the end of the year started with 3 initial positions, with 3 initial targets and 3 objectives that we have achieved, so this is the sustainability of the pension system, so what represents the long-term sustainability of the pension system is that the pension system can be stable, can be adequately capitalised in some way and can meet those needs that exist on the spending side of the state budget. The second objective was the adequateness of pensions, i.e. the level of pensions, i.e. an increase in pension rates in the next periods for future pensioners and for all of the current pensioners. The third objective was to solve intergenerational inequality. Some of you have talked about it with supplements, i.e. with an addendum of 20.25% to all those insurance companies who are using the right to a basic pension or who are two-stage, which are from a mixed pillar, so we have removed this intergenerational inequality and have actually protected all those citizens born between 1962 and 1980 from lower pensions in the present and in the future. However, regardless of this, the will of citizens to through the referendum initiative has been demonstrated, the will of citizens has shown that they want certain segments of that pension reform, or certain segments of these legal solutions to be amended, and we have accepted that will as a proposer. What I would like to point out once again, therefore, that we will continue on these topics, the themes of the pension system very systematically, that we will discuss these topics with all those who are considered interested in these topics, and it is certain that we will continue to discuss on the pension system and on the work system, i.e. on topics from the pension system and the work system, and we will continue to discuss them and the solution to the problems that arise in these systems will continue to work. In the end, he would only add that the conclusion of the Association of Representatives Bridges of Independent Lists is not accepted by the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166466	I would like to thank the Minister for his closing statement. We have a replica, a respected colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166467	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, Your Honor. So, in our House, it's not very common for ministers to be with us all day unless it's about impeachment, so I appreciate that it's extremely good that you were there, that you heard the remarks, but what I'm interested in right now is, we had one package of laws, this was one law plus all those of which the government gave up on Tuesday. What we had the opportunity to hear in the media, to prepare other laws, to go into a regular procedure, to talk to your social partners. I would like you to answer what has been done on this point that when will it be ready for a public debate, or public hearing, and when can we expect that next set of laws to be in the Parliament, in the parliamentary procedure, or at the debate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166468	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166469	I thank you for asking. So as far as these laws are concerned, which are not on the agenda today, and there was the possibility that they could be, therefore, in the earlier conversation, in communication today during the session, I noted that the reason why we did not go with these proposals of the law was because we and our social partners, so with all three union centrals and employers, we communicated about these laws. What has been seen is that the speed in passing these laws may at this point be one difficult situation. We decided to discuss these laws further, to see which would be more adequate, better solutions, or some broader solutions. And it's definitely a theme we'll be working on in future time. I wouldn't say anything about dates right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166470	I thank the Minister for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166471	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, here's probably the final answer to the replica on this agenda point, that is, the last announcement, on the trail of this and the last one you announced about now this vacuum, the space in which we return not to the old one, because the old one was 67, but up to 65 years old as a basic condition. I only pray that one step more is certainly taken and what I said earlier today and earlier in the morning to simply enable people who want to stay on the labour market to do so but not to take employers as hostages of that decision. In fact, the translation means that both employers and workers must agree to remain on the labour market longer. So if there's no deal, then that model shouldn't be applied. So I think it's very clear and that that way we could go in that direction. Here, it's like a suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166472	Thank you. Minister Aladrovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166473	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. So this is exactly the intensity of these extended talks, it is precisely the intensity of some regular procedure, and it is precisely the intensity of this social dialogue between the unions, employers and us as the Government of the Republic of Croatia but not only in this context but also in the context of a broader public debate and the general public which can say something further on these issues. We are all aware that the problem of labour legislation in Croatia has not been since yesterday, that the problem of labour law has been potentiated for a long time and, in fact, in the context of changes to the laws that regulate work, we are certainly expected to have an extremely interesting time. A time in which we need to adapt to the affairs of the future, a time in which we must show our part of social sensitivity but also a focus towards economic growth. So we expect these discussions to be very interesting, very comprehensive and that we will come up with quality solutions for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166474	I thank the Honorable Minister. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Minister of Labour and Pensions, Mr. Josip Aladrovic, with his associates and associates for the explanation of this final draft of the law. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We are starting the plenary session with a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 761. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGE and the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Youth. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final draft law. We're going to the First Amendment, he's been accepted, he's become an integral part of the law. Second amendment, Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Please show the State Secretary to Mrs. Majde Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166476	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, a good morning for all respected MPs and MPs, so this amendment is not accepted and this bill fully takes over the proposals from the request for a national referendum of the Civil Initiative "67 is too much" which means that the percentage of the pension can only be 0.2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166477	Thank you. My dear colleague, Grmoya and colleague Maras, I would like to ask you nicely that if we could continue our work. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166478	Thank you very much for the clarification. I'm still standing by the debate. So you accepted the request from the referendum, which is commendable. But what doesn't have your position, I purposely put 0.1 to see actually how you do an impact assessment of any proposal because this is at the end of the government's proposal. The fact that you have accepted someone else's impact assessment initiative must clearly show. I'd like to ask that one question. What does it look like actually determining the category of someone who's going early retirement?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166479	I'd like to ask you nicely, let's not disturb my colleague Panenic to speak. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166480	So how do you determine? Someone really because of a real physical lack that you can't continue to penalize him just as someone who goes off early for some other reason, but I say in this bill you're just calling for a referendum initiative, and then you should actually put on an initiative to be members of the government, I don't see at all the purpose of her or the minister who needs to sit there, or you who explain, could come here, the members of the initiative, say this is what we're proposing, our assessment is that there will be such and such results from all of this, behind it, we will defend it, and in future time after that will evaluate your work. According to this, your work will be evaluated first on the failed proposal that you have actually tried to make an amendment, and in the end, you are now withdrawing it and by what you are calling for others as if it were an attitude, but there is still a lack of what the Government's position is about it or just what we accept the initiative and we remain on it. And we're going to come up with another question, and then I'm going to explain there what the impact assessment and the compensation is, and it's about this before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166481	Are you looking for a vote? Thank you very much. We move to the Third Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGE. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166482	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted, namely the fixing of a higher amount of early retirement under official duty, and without the adoption of a solution it is in line with the established practice by which the calculation and payment of the increased amounts of pensions are carried out in the same way as any other regular harmonisation of pensions where no solutions are also made. It also avoids additional administrative costs, and there are no obstacles to the application of this standard for everyone to request a solution and to exercise their right to appeal and judicial protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166483	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166484	So, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, so you wouldn't have been able to afford a bit of joy to those who were retired at 0.30 a month earlier in retirement this year, and since the adoption of this law, you've sent them a solution home to get them out of 1.1. In 2020, the penalization will be reduced from 0,30 to 0,20. So, that kind of joy for about 5,000 pensioners this year wouldn't want to afford it by justifying the costs, and I know you can't book two pensions in the database at the same time. That you have a technical problem in your system. So this isn't lame. And secondly, why don't they get an immediate solution, so if they're going to complain, they have paper, not that they have to ask for a solution to be issued so that they can eventually complain. Well, that's the right of citizens. I know the effect will eventually be the same, but just know that when someone gets a solution then there's a certain security, and I'm not talking about this joy that would be immeasurable if anything had been done, it's done them good and that their life sentence has been reduced. I think in all this talk that it could be allowed or done in some way to cheer them up because I doubt that one number of people will ever get this information from that 5,000, that all 5,000 of them will be informed. So, I'm saying, I'm staying with the amendment and I'm going to ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166485	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. We move to the Fourth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGE. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166486	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed provision would mean the retroactive application of this law which would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166487	Thank you. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166488	In the Croatian Parliament, we passed laws with retroactive application, and somehow this all seems connected to me. I will not give a solution that someone does not seek compensation for this year or that it is tried at the European Court of Human Rights for the damage he has suffered, it does not have to be big, but it can create intrinsic in people because each year the system puts it two, three months in an unequal situation. So he can sue the Republic of Croatia for too often changing the legal provisions and the rights of the pensioners. Therefore, I would recommend that you regress or compensate for the damage to these people because that would be fair and fair. They are not guilty, especially not those shipbuilders who went into early retirement for the opening of bankruptcy over shipbuilding. Such fellow citizens have many, many of them in Rijeka and other parts of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think they deserve this treatment to be the only ones, about five thousand of them to suffer damage. It's not all year, some retired a month ago, some six months ago, some two years ago, and it's not such a terrible sum. It's missing and lacking in good faith. Be careful, as long as this is not settled, and until we have the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament that these laws or amendments to this law solve all the issues that were to be settled by a referendum, by calling a referendum, you are not in a safe position, you are always risking different lawsuits both under the Constitutional Court and the International Court of Human Rights. I remember once when we solved things like that, we made a clean cut that there were no resolutions left, not like this, that we left the situation torn apart. Thank you very much. I'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166489	Thank you. We move to the 5th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166490	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the ex post impact assessment of the regulations shall be carried out in accordance with Article 17. The law on the assessment of the impact of the regulations and, at the latest, within two years of the date of entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166491	Here's a colleague of the HRELI.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166492	So I think it's a very stretching interpretation of Article 17. The Impact Assessment Act because it says that delaying the impact assessment can happen in the event of war danger, natural disasters, the risk of major damage to the Republic of Croatia, and we don't have this case here. It's been more than six months since you knew you'd have to change the law or go out to a referendum signed by 750,000 people, and 710000, 715000 valid signatures, p rema knew that. In six months, an impact assessment of this law could be made, and it is too serious a law to write anywhere that an impact assessment will work in two years. And what are we going to do in the meantime? Shouldn't the competent ministry and the government watch every day for such serious laws by which the rights of our citizens are determined, under which it is either threatened or not threatened by the existence of our citizens. Therefore, the existence of our citizens depends on these laws, they are too important and I think you should have proposed this amendment to assess the impact both previously and continuously without any delay of two years. I must confess to this practice in my 16 years in the Croatian Parliament, this is the first time and this is a kind of precedent of such practice so that an impact assessment is delayed for two years. What's hidden behind that? I don't know, I don't want to be honest or anything, but God forbid something's harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. I'll ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166493	Thank you. We move to the 6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166494	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system will carry out an ex post impact assessment of this law, given the high impact on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166495	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please. A colleague of the Hill, you can. Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166496	I'm going to continue here at the exhibit that my colleague Hrelja had. In fact, what does it mean after two years? After two years, whoever comes here will say it's a civic initiative that proposed, we're not behind it. But this is me telling you the government's proposal. So the government made a proposal, didn't give a civic initiative to the proposal, they're initiators. What you've accepted means you're behind it. And then you can't set a distance like this for two years, and then someone's gonna meet up and say here you see that you were wrong but that what was our proposal was right. The proposal is yours, your government that you represent here, which is the initiator. It's not a group of MPs, it's not someone else, but you're here right now, and you're defending it to all of us. And this evaluation, I'll agree, is the evaluation of any regulation being done continuously and if there are needs and changes and adjustments. In this way you say two years is a frozen state like it is, we're not touching anything, it's a hot topic peck. In the meantime, there may be real needs, so what are you going to say? Here's what we've done is we've done an impact assessment. Well, then someone will tell you, but it's in your law that in two years you'll be doing an impact assessment, why you've now made an assessment that something needs to be changed. I think you're restricting yourself by putting together a provision like this where you say two years from now. What if it had to change something in a year? You'll say here, unfortunately we can't because we put that provision in place. Now another direct question, was it the same to be such a provision in the citizens' initiative "67 is too much"? Whether they wrote it or not, is it not in your proposal in 2018 that there was no such provision, then perhaps they, here are colleagues of the Hrelja, might have made a mistake so they put it on, did not actually know how to assess the effects of any regulation. Thank you very much. We're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166497	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for showing us about the amendments. We'll vote on laws and amendments as planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166498	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 761. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of HSU, independent representatives and the SNAGE, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will now vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. We're going in a row, so the first is legislation he's accepted. The second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Youth is not accepted by the Government and we must vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 3, Club of HSU Representatives, Independent Representatives and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4. The club of HSU representatives, independent MPs and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5. The club of HSU representatives, independent representatives and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 115 for and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 761. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of HSU, independent representatives and the SNAGE, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will now vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. We're going in a row, so the first is legislation he's accepted. The second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Youth is not accepted by the Government and we must vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 3, Club of HSU Representatives, Independent Representatives and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4. The club of HSU representatives, independent MPs and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5. The club of HSU representatives, independent representatives and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 115 for and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166499	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 761. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of HSU, independent representatives and the SNAGE, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will now vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. We're going in a row, so the first is legislation he's accepted. The second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Youth is not accepted by the Government and we must vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 3, Club of HSU Representatives, Independent Representatives and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4. The club of HSU representatives, independent MPs and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5. The club of HSU representatives, independent representatives and SNAGE, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 115 for and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166500	Comrade Bauk, we will vote on this conclusion, so vote against it. No need, and what do you want, about what? Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166501	Mr. President of the Assembly, my colleague Bauk injured the Rules of Procedure because he called for the wrong article of the Rules of Procedure, and it is that it cannot be called for a decision by the Constitutional Court which clearly states that one, only case, and from 2010, is a one-time decision that does not apply to all future cases since the Croatian Assembly has not prescribed such a situation by law, and should, this conclusion, such a situation may be solve exclusively. [[Intruder: Thank you, time, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166502	Thank you. I am now voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the club of representatives of the independent lists, which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal for a conclusion did not get enough votes, 13 were for, and 77 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166503	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Care, first reading, P.Z. No. 353 Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the GLAS; Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the GLAS pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committees responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The government has delivered its opinion. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation of this bill, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166504	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary with an associate. In May 2018, we gave the GLAS as a club in the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for amendments to the Social Care Act. It is about amending two provisions of this law for the simple reason that we wanted to encourage and encourage what we are absolutely sure of, which is that we need a new law on social care or that if it is not yet in preparation, that is, prepared enough in the forwarding ministry to point to a problem that is and to offer one of the options to solve this problem. This proposed amendment to the law has been proposed to amend two articles of the existing law. One article is 55, another article is 65. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, What's this about? It's about disabled people getting disabled. The provision of paragraphs 2 and 3 is stated when a person who has, therefore, a person with disabilities is subject to certain conditions, obtained a disability reduction depending on the income he receives. What is clear is the following, and that is that the provision and Article 58. The constitution that says it is a state should take special care to protect people with disabilities and their involvement in social life, and we appreciate that people with disabilities should not share in personal disability on those who are poor and those who are rich. You, therefore, receive the right to disability from your foundation, whether or not you are a person with disabilities, and in that sense should remain not as a social category but as a category which you are actually bound by being a person with disabilities, you should not really share it with the poor and rich, and this is not a fee that will allow you to settle your life needs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So the status, forgive me, that you are a parent, can be recognised to a parent or another person if, if a child with developmental difficulties or a disabled person is provided accommodation and organised housing service, half-day or whole-day stay in accordance with the provisions of this law. With what it is, it can be used maximum for 4 hours a day. We have proposed that this, that those four hours be changed to seven hours, for several reasons. The first reason is that, if possible, such children, with developmental difficulties, or such persons, are as much involved as possible if they are in the rehabilitation system, or even in the learning system and the rest if possible because we believe that 7 hours would be much more acceptable. They're parents who, having that status, have their status 24 hours a day. So we appreciate that in those 7 hours some of them could meet some needs potentially on the labour market, because unfortunately this is always about people who are behind it when what happens most tragically, or what is somehow very difficult then very difficult such parents who had status are also involved in the labour market. I think it's not long ago, not to think but it's hard for me to tell which date it was, in front of the ministry were those parents and pointed to the fact that the problems they were facing. We were aware that this provision of the law could not be solved all these problems, that this provision of the law was not written and in a way that could be solved but in this way we wanted to point out the problem and say that this problem should be solved. On 27 June 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Resort Ministry, made a proposal and the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave an opinion that it is absolutely aware of the need to improve social benefits and services. It was said that in April of that year there was a meeting of working group members and officials who concluded that the working group would work in three subgroups. It has been said that it is extremely important to implement a policy towards people with disabilities and, of course, it is said that this bill is not accepted which was not even a surprise. Since we did not go to the plenary debate, therefore with this law, I must admit that I expected that what was written in the opinion, which is that somehow by the end of 2019, a whole law would come into the parliamentary procedure, we were somehow thinking that what we suggested, perhaps slightly different or in some part, was done, but was systematically resolved in that law and we did not even expect to get the opportunity to discuss this at a plenary session. But now we come to the fact that it hasn't been solved, that it hasn't been solved so for a little over a year. Whether we want to or not, we'll hear it through the debate. So it would be good if it were really settled, and I'm on the board today that she heard from the secretary of state that it was proposed for, so the law is proposed for the first quarter if I'm not wrong in 2019. What we in the GLAS Club wanted to achieve with this law was this, to point out the problem, to point out that the problem exists, to point out that the problem should be solved, to point out to the rest of the ministry, to try to solve it because it is indeed the problems that people face daily and to repeat the constitutional basis for this law once again, or what it says: “I am weak, powerless and others because of unemployment or inability to work, the unsettled people of the state guarantee the right to help to settle basic needs of life. Special care is given to the protection of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in social life." Through these two amendments to the law and pointing to the problem, this is one way to solve it. It would be good if, unlike all the cases we've had so far, when something came from the ranks of the opposition, no matter what even in the debate there was a chance to hear that it was good, that it had to be solved, that it was not accepted. So accept once, show good will to accept and then when the whole law comes the whole way solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166505	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of, or I apologize, we have two more replicas before that. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So esteemed counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash, I fully support this proposal of yours, so we had a similar proposal a few months ago, but I do not have the illusion that by ruling it would accept it. I'm concerned about this proposal, the fact that one, I've been left with this fact that the Resort Ministry doesn't have the number of people who lost their disability due to income censorship. I ask the question of what kind of state we are if we don't have a record of people who lost their disability due to income censorship because I think that's the key question to even doing something.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166507	Thank you. Answer, esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166508	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague of Sladolev. You're younger than me, so you're still surprised, I'm no longer surprised, in a country where we kind of swear on digitization, we swear that everything, that our e-Citizens, that all things are available to us, when you're looking for some data, then you have to make a lot of effort to get that data. Of course, I have to admit, I'm making an appeal from this pay phone all the time. I don't mind that sometimes things are handled completely, but if you need time to solve it the whole way you wanted to, let's just accept one initiative, one good intention, one good proposal, so let's work it out, let's just solve that one segment because there's always going to be results. This way, it's over and it's gonna be a year and a half, it might be two, and the status will stay the same as it was in the spring of last year when we put this law into practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166509	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166510	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the existing Social Care Act did not discriminate, the very people with disabilities asked for intervention and you know it very well, we sat here together in this assembly when we discussed the Social Care Act in 2017 asked that the salary be classified as being able to go along with the personal disability for only one reason, which is that people with disabilities are somehow released and pushed into the labour market because they did not want to work. So, and this whole thing, that's when the secretary of state said she'd get rid of it, so I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166511	Thank you. Answer, fellow Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166512	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lukacic. I have never really been or will be a parliamentary representative of general practice, nor do I think I understand everything and absolutely appreciate your knowledge of this matter and I appreciate your personal involvement in this matter. But, absolutely, I'm absolutely sure that you and I can agree, let's not share people with disabilities with the rich and the poor. The idea is really to get involved in the labour market and it's a real project and it's a real idea, but this provision in the law is absolutely discriminatory, it's already a late day, and then my tongue is kniting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166513	Thank you, dear colleague Taritash, for your reply. Since the Committee's rapporteurs do not want to take the floor, please the Government's representative, the respected State Secretary of State at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Maria Pleikos has given us an explanation, or opinion from the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166514	... Honored ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] As regards the text of the proposed law, it was found that no date of entry into force of the law and in point 3 of the evaluation of the means necessary for the implementation of the law, no indication of the time period for which the funds of 30 million kuna are required. In view of the fact that the necessary funds of €30 million can be made available through redistribution, only in the current year, it can be assumed that more than €30 million is needed annually, which required additional resources in the state budget in 2018. In addition, the creation of a new Social Care Act is under way and the aim of that law is to improve the scope, appropriateness and application of the rights in the social care system in order to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion. For the purposes of law-making, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy has established and appointed a working group in whose composition, other than the employees of the ministry, appointed social partners, academic community and civil society organisations working with adults and children with disabilities, then representatives of local and regional self-government, representatives of welfare centres, social workers chambers and representatives of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Persons with Disabilities. In the Republic of Croatia, as well as most other countries, the implementation of policies towards persons with disabilities is within the competence of different resolution ministries, and the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the adoption of other relevant international documents, as well as the continued adoption of a national strategy for equalising opportunities for persons with disabilities, the issue of disability is resolved by a single policy and concerted action. In order to carry out all activities aimed at raising the quality of life of persons with disabilities, joint action, coordination and mutual cooperation of all institutions, it has proved to be an effective approach in creating and implementing policies towards people with disabilities. It is also important to note that detailed analysis of the rights and services in the social care system has been done for law-making purposes and that the adoption of all recommendations for improving the social care system depends on the possibilities of implementing the proposed measures, as well as on the resources provided for in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. A reference in the parliamentary procedure to the Social Care Act is expected in the first quarter of 2020. For the reasons mentioned above, the proposal for a Law amending the Social Care Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by the Club of Representatives GLAS and HSU. The Croatian Parliament is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166515	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State for this explanation of the government's opinion. We have a replica. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the argument that the bill itself does not specify the date of entry into force is very easy to resolve, if this is the reason for refusal, so we usually know the laws and can resolve the laws ourselves by amendment 8 days from the day of publication in the National Journal usually laws come into force and we can very easily resolve it with one amendment. Secondly, the amount of 30 million kuna to which you referred that it was not secured by the budget you can see in the explanation he was aloof, 30 million occasive. It could be $500,000, it could be a million, it could be 25,000. Why is he so cocky? Because you don't have the data exactly how much it is, what a colleague of Sladolev said, how much it actually cost to remove the property censorship. And there's a problem it could be 0, but it depends on you, we don't know how much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166517	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the promoter, the esteemed Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166518	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so let me repeat again in the spring of last year we put this bill in the assembly. Since it has passed, almost there will be a year and a half, we should not have discussed this proposal. You could have come with a whole bill of law, solved everything that was and we would have been involved in the debate, even more than we would have boasted that we had suggested something and that we were very pleased that you had thought about it. What you said, and what we heard on the board, will be the first quarter of next year. That means if it goes into two readings we'll hardly have a new law. And the key question why? Why have you decided we don't have a new law? You can answer that. And what you've read is that explanation that I cited here, so we're really this amount that we need to say about because we didn't have the data. That's when you use the famous gentleman, Mr. Dr. So you pull something out of your sleeve and we say it's about because we don't have the information. It would have been much better if you'd told us that we needed that and that amount of funding because we did an analysis that you didn't do. And when the law comes into force, it is not a general problem, that the amendment and if the problem of the entry into force of this law is the only problem, so we can deal with it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166519	I thank my colleague, Dark Taritash. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Mrak Taritas, colleagues on behalf of the promoter, respected state secretary with co-worker, colleague and colleague, here we have heard on behalf of the club, on behalf of the promoter that colleague Mrak Taritas detailed the Law on Amendments to the Social Care Act and what are the two rights proposed to amend this law. So personal disability part and parent status. As for the abolition of income censorship when it comes to personal disability, I am sure that the colleague had the best intentions, but I must say that we have talked about it several times in this high house and exactly the Ombudsman in his report and I am on occasion of some other debate and is currently discussing this and these working groups that are developing a new Social Care Act to scout all ways and all possibilities for income censorship and property censorship to be abolished. We have a common position here and it is not disputed, a personal disability is not a social compensation that is a compensation for what a person with disabilities cannot do because of his disability and should not be tied to any censorship. Accordingly, with regard to the adoption of the Law on Inclusive Adjectives, it was equally discussed that an inclusive supplement should in some way end a personal disability and some other rights should be joined together in an inclusive supplement, given that this inclusive supplement should also be relieved of all possible censors. This is therefore not controversial, but I will tell you why it is not simply possible at this time to resolve it with this proposal to amend the law. The second right that is proposed in some ways one item to change this law is parenting status. In the light of this law, it was written that increasing the number of hours from 4 to 7 would, among other things, allow parents to join the labour market. Well, I'm actually hoping you'll all understand this, there's no labour market when it comes to parenting or nursing status. The word itself speaks, because if we talk about easier disability that doesn't require daily care, then we don't even talk about nursing status. Then parents whose child can go to school, can go to college, can be included in the world of work then parents work if they can’t because of certain specificities in the health condition of their child or family member, then parents work either 8 hours or 4 hours. There are parents who have extremely severely ill children with the most difficult types of disability, who are involved in the world of work. But well, it is now up to everyone to choose what is best for his child and for him personally. In the light of this law, it also says, this bill also states that this law is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It's not like that and that's how it's supposed to be. Because all the laws we make in this House must be harmonised, they must comply with the Convention, not only the Law on Social Welfare but all the laws that in any way touch any rights that consume persons with disabilities. Because neither is the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy resolutely, parently or whatever they like to call it, the Ministry of Persons with Disabilities, but these are all ministries because we draw rights from all the laws, so from all the ministries. And now I'm going to tell you why this bill is not in line. In order for this bill to be in line with the Convention to be the first necessary, basic, only thing I don't know how to say yet is that the definition of personal disability here is correct, correct and clearly written. She's no good in the existing law now. Now the law says that the right to a personal disability is recognised by a person with a severe disability. Now listen, with severe disability or other severe permanent changes in your health. This is what is most important because it says to meet the basic needs of life and to engage in everyday life in the community. What does that mean or other severe permanent changes in your health? What does that mean? Nothing. That's why the secretary of state said now that she was saying that the law-making working group involved the Office of Art, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities because it was the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that could say whether or not someone with disabilities was involved. Because if the definition says that the right to a personal disability is recognised by a person with disabilities, then everything else doesn't need it. Some other, severe, permanent changes in your health and they lead to disability. Therefore, neither persons with disabilities nor their parents should be puzzled by the definition clearly and aloud. That's exactly what the task force is doing right now, and not only is this now when it comes to the Social Care Act, but whatever law we're having, we have this problem because in no definition, it's not the right thing to do and in the Convention it's clearly said that a person with disabilities is the person with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory damage. So her disability has to be determined. Now that's what we're doing, and that's why this law, the bill can't be passed because it's not in accordance with the Convention. Furthermore, this is as far as personal disability is concerned, but further to this is proposed, this bill also proposed the status of foster parents as I have already touched it in some way. So an extension from 4 to 7 o'clock. As I was saying, I don't think I'd mind doing it, so the kid hangs out a little bit more to say, that the parent can get some rest. And that's why it's necessary, but this institution's parent or foster parent status isn't, and this is the least of the problems you've listed as proposings at this institute. This institute has a lot more problems and these issues are coming up every day, requests to talk and to see what else can be done by the end of the working groups to make this institute really right because when you look at what it really is, or who it can be for, parent status. Says the definition that parent status can be assigned to a person who has, a life partner, a parent or a person with disabilities, so who is completely dependent on the help and care of another person, you know what that means? Practically she can't go anywhere. Furthermore, because it is a threat to life, because it needs specific medical technical assistance to reflect life. So any one who is a parent nurse or nurse should be trained to be able to provide that medical and technical assistance. Furthermore, it is about persons who are completely immobilised and with the help of orthopaedic aids and thirdly, persons who have several types of serious damage, physical, intellectual, sensory, etc., who are completely dependent on the help and care of other persons in meeting the basic needs of life. So these are difficult qualifications. Severe qualifications are therefore sometimes difficult to expect that such individuals will be able to stay for more than 4 hours in an institution. This is where they're mentioned and now in the law of an educational institution. Do you know, these children who are entitled or whose parents are entitled to status, do you know what kind of school this is? It's a 21st-year-old school, and after that school, you're not qualified for any occupation. So I would personally say that this is something that we need to change just as much, and I'm already on the subject with the Minister of Education and I believe that we're going in that direction, and we have to call it something different because the school is a school and babysitting is childcare and absolutely and these kids we're talking about right now, or people with disabilities, have to have opportunities that can go somewhere and socialize and socialize, but it's hard to believe like I said, that they'll simply be able to endure their serious damage for more than four hours. Seven hours seems to me and everything else we're saying is too much for their health. Here I think I have explained in detail what reasons this law cannot be accepted for but, as counterpart Mrak Taritash said, so accept at least one part of it now and then it will be settled later, so people with disabilities and you need to know that they are not satisfied that their issues and their rights are being resolved in a partial manner and now that it's started to create a new Social Care Act, the very people with disabilities have asked to be done right, that we finally have a law that I now have to say, never, no government has ever bothered to solve the problem from the beginning, from the definition. And here's the end, the HDZ club won't accept the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166521	Thank you, colleague Lukacic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of Cuba's representative of the SDP, respected colleague Sabina Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166522	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honoring state secretary with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the bill on amendments to the Social Care Act, which has already been addressed a little over a year ago, we could already have a fairer social care system when we talk about the rights of persons with disabilities, given that the ministry is quite a trombone and that it takes 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 years to solve the key problems of persons with disabilities systematically and then regularly get out in a way that things should not be resolved in part but should be resolved in full and I believe that it is better in any way than never. And a small step is better than any step and no step forward, so let's just say why we think that this law is good and ultimately, the initiative to amend this law started right from the parent associations of people with disabilities, so it's not a colleague of Mrak-Taritash or club GLAS pulled out of the finger, it's an initiative that came out of the user. We are here representatives of the people, representatives of individual social groups and logically and normally that when they have certain problems, they address everyone, all clubs, from HDZ via SDP, MOST, GLAS, and that is their legitimate right. Now, who's going to react and in what way, that's our choice. They have their rights, and we have a choice, react, do not react, put them on hold, hurry. Here, the voice went and came to me, you were faster, no no hard feelings, you were faster, you put it into the bill of law, and since I'm headed into the problems of this group of people, there's nothing else but the same law to support, not to be vain and somehow deluded because you were faster. Let's do it in a row. The personal disability of an existing article of the law shall be defined as a compensation incurred by a person with a severe disability or other severe permanent health changes in order to meet its needs for inclusion in the daily life of the community. At this point in time after 1 April 2018, for a person who does not have his own income, I must commend the Government for raising this amount of personal disability by 1 April 2018. E, however, a personal disability, meaning of £ 1500, is entitled only to persons who do not have income, persons who do not have income and are entitled to disability are recognised, meaning they are not recognised to persons who, for example, own another apartment or house, other than those in which they live, and who may, for example, rent, alienation to provide some means of involvement in the community. So this person cannot de facto exercise the right to a personal disability or be granted this right. Also, a person, for example, who does not have his own income or has his own income, who owns some business space that does not use to carry out a registered activity, is also not recognised the right to a personal disability. And 4th of a category, we have people who have some income, who do it in different ways, so to speak, sources, and their personal disability is being reduced, now according to that particular formula for income obtained by some work, even if that work is minimal. Even there are different practices of the social care centre where, as income, regardless of which it is, even in practice, incomes happen to recognise or count both savings and interest on savings and savings or some financial amounts for gift contracts, so there are different practices of the welfare centre. Now, you see that you have different categories and now imagine that you have a person who belongs to the category, 4 people who belong to the category of severe disability, have the same level of disability, but they won't have the same level of rights. They won't. The one who doesn't have her own income, she'll get $1,500 a month's personal disability. The one with no income, but she has an apartment or a house she doesn't live in, and she can live on it, and she won't exercise her rights. The one who has some income, interest, savings, depending on it, will be reduced. And now you're telling me that the intensity of the convention should be that personal disability is not a social category, but this turns out to be. That you have the same level of disability, you have 4 people who have a severe disability, they make different profits, they income, they live, and that disability isn't ranked the same way. Now, you can't tell me anymore that it's not a social category. Yeah, we put it that way. And disability shouldn't be a social category. If I'm already damaged in some sense because I have a medical condition, I have a disability, then my right should come from the very fact. I need the state to help me where it can, but I can't be reduced by my right to someone else depending on my property or income censorship. This is why the GLAS Club asked to delete the property and income censorship because it creates discrimination among people who are the same level of disability. That's the key, that's what this law is all about, to correct injustice and erase discrimination. You've got a situation, and you've got a situation. The lawyer for people with disabilities in one interview said when she warned about these problems, she also warned of this, meaning that this property income censorship in determining personal disability and warned that you had a situation, for example, that a person with a disability who has a pension of 2200 kn, for example, will not reduce his personal disability, and the other person who has a income of 2200 kn of work will be reduced by her right or her personal disability. Well, that's another level of discrimination. So the intensity of this law, this bill in one part of it, is to correct this injustice and really act on the basis of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and all the recommendations that say that personal disability must not and should not be a social category, but to make it easier to integrate this person into social life, to facilitate everyday life and to facilitate the cost of life that this disability carries with it because it has greater cost of life. And it's supposed to be a personal disability, help to make it easier for you because your life costs are more expensive, to make your life easier than to punish you because you have a disability, so I'm going to take a little bit because here you are making some income, which you have, well, we need to correct the injustice and there's nothing wrong with the intensity of this law. That's the first part, and that's why we're going to support it because we think it's just. Secondly, when we talk about foster parents, what this same law is trying to do, the parents of carers today under the existing law, it's not just today, it's a long line of years, they lose their status and the right to compensation of 2500 a month if a child or an adult with disabilities stays more than 4, let's say somewhere less than 4 hours in a pre-school, educational institution, a health institution or an institution that provides social services and now Mrs. Lukacic, on behalf of the HDZ Club, says that you would exercise the right or the parent of a car, that you have to be fully committed to that child and that this is the fact that these 4 hours a week and 16 hours a week, a little less than 4 hours a day, actually contributes to the fact that the parent who is with you is most of the day and he has parent status but I'm asking you, okay, I accept that as an argument, but I'm asking you, what's the difference between 4 hours a day that is defined in this law and 7 hours a day that suggests club GLAS? Now I'd like to see some scientific data from which you've decided to go for 4, not for 5, not for 3 and which makes it unacceptable 7. And if I were to make the amendment tomorrow instead of seven if it were four and a half or five, would that be acceptable or not acceptable? Why 4, that's what I'm interested in and why is 7 unacceptable? Because this way we would expand the pool of people who would get the right status of parent parents, we would expand that base, more parents would get that status, and on the other hand we would allow these parents to become more involved in the labour market. I am for deinstitutionalization absolutely, I am not for this to be understood as if we want to put the children seven hours a day in certain institutions, but the convention and recommendations related to people with disabilities go right on that trail, in art. 28 conventions and recommendations in Art. 44 recommendations, says the Committee, recommend empowerment of the programme, the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the one who cares about the implementation of the Convention, says the Committee recommends empowering the programme to combat poverty, further, the compensation aimed at reducing the increased costs arising from disability, based on an assessment of individual needs and not subject to an assessment of the censorship. So in this first case, we said we should approach each other individually and there's no room for censorship and now we're talking about these assessments of individual needs. So I think that, I don't know if 7 hours is the most optimistic, whether it's the best solution, I don't know I'm not professional, and I can't say that, but I'm curious about how we got to 4, why not 5 and why it's unacceptable 7 and why I have to trust the promoter here when he says that this way we would ensure a wider base of people who would exercise the right or the status of parents of carers, on the other hand, also enable them to become more involved in the labour market. Let's not forget that this part, but I don't have time for it anymore, and that's another topic, there's still a lot of problems, but people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, but it's not the subject of this law, so let's just stick to these two articles, let's not forget that one of the key national policies is actually including people with disabilities on the labour market. Here we are not talking about children about their stay but when we talk about adults, what you said is the point of the story is to enable them to get more involved in the labour market, and I think that this second part of the law is going in that direction when we talk about adults because if we make them stay as much at home as possible and depend on the benefits, then it's not good, if we threaten people, I mean, if our message is that if you're doing more, you lose the right to a personal disability, for example, if you earn more, you lose the right to a personal disability, then it's actually something that's a conflict with employment policy, a general convention towards people with disabilities, which comes back to the benefit of what I just said, that this can't be a social category, we need to have persons with disabilities who will respect their disability, help them to settle the costs of life that are expensive, but the fact that you don't allow them to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to live in a person to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to work to work to live in a person to be able to be able to stay in a person to stay. Here again, so the SDP club proposes or supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166523	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. On behalf of the promoter, final word, dear colleague Nada Turina Đuric, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have welcomed today the final debate on our bill and we are pleased with the discussion and it was to assume that approximately today the discussion of the HDZ Club will go in the direction in which the SDP Club also went in the direction in which they were hoping of, of course, always what should be the key task of our parliamentary representatives, which is that here we represent the interests of the people who chose us, among other things, in this case the right of persons with disabilities and we believe that the two basic objectives that these are in fact small changes, but the great steps to improve the status and rights of persons with disabilities and their parents, are significant and that they are going in the direction in which we agree, I would say they are going towards improvement. Some of the details in which I respect Mrs. O'Donnell. Lukacic is absolutely very well-known and which has contributed to a better status of disabled persons to advocate full solutions, but these complete solutions often spend us and two mandates of one government to reach half solutions, let alone complete solutions. Well, then, it wouldn't be a bad thing to listen to people whose needs are expressed by these proposals, so let's say that let's change what we can change at this point and that will contribute to the better quality of life of these people. So with the first change, we go towards legal equality, namely disability, and otherwise often there was a dispute between political options, various political options. We believe that disability as such does not give people with disabilities the right to the way and the place in which this disability happened but the disability is simply the degree of damage that one person has. Unfortunately, we have too often violated these fundamental and fundamental rights. So here's the little one actually corrects that there's a person on a personal disability simply because he's disabled and has certain damage. About what it's about. Lukacic said, I absolutely agree that everything needs to be brought into line with international conventions and with the signatures that we have put on international declarations, but it is not a reason, it seems to me, that, in order for this justice to be introduced into the law, it is justified that it should first be brought into line with some of the higher declarations that we are signatories or the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm surprised it might already be, since you know it's been cut off that it's not already done and it's not suggested on your part. And this second change may be even deeper because it expands from people who are already suffering themselves because they are disabled and in their environment or on the chance of their environment living which, conditionally speaking, is to give them a chance to get involved in all life and work processes in a timely manner. So here we open up the chance that these parents, unfortunately because of this status, are often isolated from the world of work, and most often after or often happens after a certain number of years to lose or those disabled children, or something tragic happens, and then very difficult or almost impossible can't be included in the labour market. This possibility that they can take parallel care of their disabled child and that they can join the labour market would give them a better chance of moving on with normal life and in some of the most tragic situations that are unfortunately happening and that some associations or individuals have reported to us and told us that the law should change in this direction. So we absolutely don't see the reasons, we respect all of this that you said you wanted to go into a comprehensive change, a full study, an analysis, etc., but here are two changes that don't hurt anyone, and many could benefit. What we regret is that we have not been able to come up with more quality cost information because we simply couldn't get to it, but I think that the ministry, with a little more effort, was able to engage on how much more high-quality data would be needed to amend this law, or to bring this law into force. I hope, here's a certain majority that will support this, and although it probably won't work out, I think it's a good idea to talk about it and talk about it as often as possible and make the proposal more than the resistances that are usually in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166525	I thank my colleague Turini-Djuric. We have a replica. Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, first of all, I'm still very surprised at what kind of labour market you're talking about because if someone wants to work, then they can work for four hours etc. I don't want to say it again. And I'm surprised at something else. And fellow voters and you, today I have to say it now, you're saying that we're not how we wanted to be able to, etc. This is not a new institute, it's not a new institute, your party and HNS and SDP were in the coalition, both in 2011 and 2012 and in 2013 when you know how, the high pressure on the then Minister of Persons with Disabilities started to change and then failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166527	Thank you. Thank you very much, we've exhausted all the debates with this, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank one more proposer's representative, Mrs. President. Nadi Turini Đuric, on the grounds of this bill, also the secretary of state, Mrs. Maria Pleikosa with a co-worker to explain the government's opinion. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. We should now move to the agenda point of the draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z. No. 663, since there are no proposings, today we will not discuss this item on the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow morning at 9:30 with a statement on the amendments. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 17.56 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-17-0.u166528	Proposal for a Law amending the Social Care Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 353. It is proposed by the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law amending the Social Care Act is not accepted." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 78 for, 31 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
