ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138929	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138930	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I will mention a few things today, for starters I will start with a verdict that benefits Croatian society and transparency in Croatia, which is the verdict in which DORH and HBOR lost the court against therefore the Commissioner for Information, it was whether or not all HBOR loans should be given to the public to know who got, how much he got and for what he got. The position of the State's Attorney's Office and the HBOR is not to be. Our political bank, deeply intertwined with the political interests in which we know by law there are six current ministers, 3 MPs and head of the Chamber of Commerce, has lost in court and I am glad that it has lost, all credits must go public because it is public money, including those in shipbuilding, some of them I have already read and mentioned in my criminal records. I would also like to say about shipbuilding that it is inadmissible and especially now that on May 1st I am talking about workers' rights that the government of Andrej Plenkovic, as Stalin starved the Ukrainians during the Holodomor, starves the workers of May 3rd and Oilers without giving them their wages. But what's even worse is that it's been lost for a year. When a man is unhappy on the road, we have a so-called The golden hour in which the best chances of being saved were to be brought to the hospital, we had a golden year or so in 2018, it was known that I knew which layman in it, at the beginning of that year to raise problems, to make something, had to know and the government, they missed that golden year and now it's much harder to situation for our two shipyards. I'm going to look at the situation of Brodosplit specifically, and I warned about the situation in Brodosplit as soon as I found out about it three months ago. I was mostly taken to warn of a new danger to the Croatian budget, which is the activation of guarantees in Brodosplit as well. Yeah, I'm afraid there's going to be a guarantee activation in Brodosplit soon. In particular, it's about the Christmas guarantee of Milanovic's government, so before Christmas, when we want to hide something, then put before Christmas, 23.12.2014, Star Clippers was given a guarantee for the construction of the Flying Clipper ship, the ship was supposed to be finished a few years ago, it's not finished until today, so it's a sailboat that hasn't even finished its sailboat yet. Mr. Fattyk has shown here 72 million kunas to get at it, but it's real now 250 million kunas in a minus on that ship. Someone in the government of Zoran Milanovic before giving this guarantee should have checked whether such a profit could be achieved on such a ship. It was not possible to achieve this and, in fact, not by doing a check but by believing blindly on the word of Mr. Fatty, damage was done to the Croatian budget. The client, therefore Star Clippers, has withdrawn its inspectors who have been overseeing the construction of a ship at the shipyard. In their catalogue for 2019 and 20, there is no longer any such boat that will soon be put into operation, and even months ago it was, so there is a very strong suspicion that the order has dropped, that guarantees for this ship will soon be activated. Guarantees worth hundreds of millions of kunas, and that's unfortunately, I'm afraid, just the beginning. The government was supposed to issue guarantees, I repeat again, see if anyone was cheating, whether it was a real price or not, but it wasn't working. It was given with a hand and a hat on all sides and from the HMB and HBOR, and now unfortunately we suffer the consequences. It's all listed in our criminal records. It should be said that we have recently witnessed and late pay, let's say the first late pay around Brodosplit. In particular, she was 15 days late, at the end of the day, I hear, thanks to the loan of the Russian VTB Bank of 40m euros. By consulting with the experts, we have come to the conclusion that Brodosplit has the resources for a few more months, and that somewhere in the summer he will become invaluable and that, unfortunately, fate 3. Maya and Oil. I therefore call upon the Government, at this hour, not to miss another golden year, now act on Brodosplit. Penalties have been waiting for you for 5.6 years in the DORH in Split, nothing has been done by them. My criminal charges, my criminal records of the Living Wall may be a month waiting for you there. Go over there, examine the situation, don't let the situation take a look at Brodosplit. which we now see in the west of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138931	Thank you. ...is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138933	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear citizens and fellow Members of the Republic of Croatia, Petar Janjic, a wartime name of Tromblon, sent me a court ruling a few days ago that granted him an overpayment of interest from his EURo loan, a total of EUR 3.177.00 and was charged to 8.600,00 kn of court costs. Peter wanted to raise additional awareness of people who were not aware of their rights and the fact is that, in addition to the bank's dealings with loans with the CHF currency clause, the unfair interest rate that changes the bank's decision, they also negotiated the same interest rate in loans with the euro currency clause and in kuna loans. In all contracts, I would dare say in almost all contracts, the consumer contracts agreed before 2013 have thus agreed on an interest rate. And all such debtors to whom banks have negotiated such an interest rate that is changed by a decision of the bank and are later entitled to overpaid amounts. The municipal court in Zagreb, which sentenced Petra Janjic to his overpaid interest, found that the collective ruling in the Franak case in the interest rate section also applies to debtors from the euro and kuna loans. The problem is that there is a very quick start of staunch claims on this issue, so those debtors who do not sue at the latest on June 12th of this year will unfortunately lose their overpaid amounts. In all this, the state acts really like an elephant in a glass shop because it has been furiously taking money out of the budget and sharing it with a bunch of people everywhere and on the other hand, a judicially established bank robbery does not prevent and prevents people from coming out of court to their own money. It is very simple by means of a legal solution, by means of a systematic legal solution to allow people to get their money without a court, the law requires the banks to make a deal with the debtors and to pay them back. It's about the interest rate of about 5 billion kuna that the banks robbed and when it comes to the currency clause CHF, it's about 10 billion kuna. Therefore, 20 years ago, the banks robbed Croatian citizens of their 15 billion kunas. It is money that would be a blocker in the economy, it is money that, if returned to Croatian citizens, would certainly allow GDP to grow by several percentage points, would allow for a better budget in the coming years and would also allow more employment because as a result of the growth of consumption and employment, it simply goes, all of this goes down after each other. Unfortunately, the state has not been able to end the illegal business of banks and therefore the citizens are left to themselves, are left to the extent that they are willing to make their own efforts, their own efforts to get their own money through judicial proceedings, and we know how much we are together inert, we know that people will probably not go to courts in large numbers. And that's why I'm extremely frustrated with the fact that probably a large, large number of these billions will stay with the banks, it's the money robbed, I keep saying it's the money robbed and it's really the money robbed. Croatia is Eldorado for banks, west of the Republic of Croatia it was not possible to behave like this, here is the neighbouring Slovenia does not know the concept of unfair interest rates, nowhere in the West has such interest rates been agreed. Unfortunately, this was possible here precisely because of the non-action of the CNB, which as a regulator did nothing to prevent it, then because of lack of inspection, due to the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and finally because of the lack of legislative authority. I call once again from this place on all debtors who made loans before 2013 to go to the courts and sue on time because June 12th is the last day they can sue, unless they sue until that day the overpaid interest will go to their forgetfulness. Of course, those who have negotiated the exchange clause CHF can still sue since 2023 for exchange rates, however, the date when they have to sue is 12.6. this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138934	Thank you very much. Now we're going back to the wheel we discussed
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138935	Let's move on, now it's the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGE, colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138936	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it has been mentioned several times, among other things, from the mouth of the ministers that the health system in Croatia is unsustainable, that despite the large amount of money given for health care, only debts are created, that healthcare is involved in paying medicines and public procurement, and at least it deals with what is crucial, and these are the people themselves within the health system. Since it is precisely the week of the sisterhood, meaning from May 5th to May 12th, which therefore wants to highlight the role of nurses and technicians, I would briefly talk about their problems. So in Croatia today, we have about 38,000 nurses and technicians who are very and very overloaded and, on the other hand, highly underpaid. Their situation is not pleasant at all because at this point, as many as 12,000 are missing, and according to the ministry, employment of new personnel is most strictly prohibited. Since we have a great shortage of sisters, so many of them have to do extra jobs, so they have to work with more patients than the standard in the EU, so let's say we have examples that in intensive care one nurse has to work with 10 patients even though she should actually work with 2. In addition, nurses are forced to work overtime, usually working hours like that, but those hours are not paid. Among other things, nurses are often asked to do jobs that are not part of their profession, so they rarely become hospital administrators or even housekeepers. The nurses are also asked to acquire new knowledge, even in 2005 a graduate sistership study was opened, they attend, many of them have already completed about 2,000 of them. However, they do not recognise this as a high professional cook, which means that they still have the same salary they had before they entered the study. This is very sad and demoting that someone spent several years of their lives, a minimum of 30 thousand kuna on study costs and I don't know the travel expenses and similar costs and that in the end there is not a single kuna increase because they are not recognised the coefficient for high professional training and at the same time that coefficient is recognised by those same sisters if they work in education or if they go abroad. In view of that, most sisters only have a salary of about 5,000 kuna, very little and too little for a job that you believe most people would never work for any money. In addition, nurses are asked to pay what kind of licenses, I don't know about the chamber and other things so that they can do their job at all while in European countries they pay nurses even at school. So there's a big difference. And I'd rather not even mention the amount of salary myself because nurses in foreign countries can earn up to 5,000 euros and therefore in a huge proportion to our 5,000 kunas. In view of this, it is clear that there is an outflow of sisters, and with the past few years more than a thousand have already gone, because here means they have been cut off in all possible ways, so they have to work too much work, they have too little pay, tomorrow they will have too little pensions, pensions that will be at the level of social cases, and should indeed do absolutely everything in our power to change such a situation, so before they declare that they all have seen this problem and agree that something should be changed urgently. I am also obliged to mention this time that there are too many policies in this entire branch of health, that many advances, employments are done by political similarity, and on this side there is therefore an additional need to shed light on this problem in which the situation is more than difficult. The living wall therefore gives full support to sisters and technicians especially during this week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138937	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138938	Next is the Club of Representatives is one of the Living Walls and the SNAGA in a name to be spoken by the esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138939	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about the rights of workers in the Republic of Croatia, in general, and they have asked me for May 1st to comment on workers' rights, the rights of workers in the Republic are not good, they are insufficient, I would even say they are very weak and bad. I'll just remind you of the article. 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, 1st, quotes: "Every employee has the right to earn money that can provide himself and his family with a free and decent life." end of quote. We know from Croatian practice that this is often not possible, that pay does not cover even basic costs, and we also know that one 200 000 children live at the risk of poverty. A long line of workers who didn't get the money didn't get their salaries for the work they had done, so they joined yesterday and workers 3. Maya, all she's gonna get is a minimum from the Agency for Insurance of Workers' Searches. So, with what's going on at 3:00. May, you might as well remind the situation in the RIZ transmitter which, to make the absurd itself larger, owned by the Republic of Croatia, where now for six months, therefore, is a problem with payout. Also Dalma, Hotel Marijan where workers look for 5 million Euros of salaries and contributions, Kamensko, Sljeme with a few hundred workers, Dalmatia and numerous others. I would like to dedicate a break here today, first of all, to the Croatian Post Office, or to the rights of workers in the Croatian Post Office, in particular to retail workers who work on counters, I have already spoken to them earlier about the situation of postmen, so because of the lack of postmen, a large number of obligations, they are often unable to deliver all the shipments they should, so we as users do not get a shipment from postmen more often, but a note, so come to the post office ourselves, and when we go to the post office, it all comes back to the counters and to the workers on the counters. It should be said that the situation has been particularly bad since Mr. Robert Jukic came to the director of the post office with his team, and it is particularly bad after a large number of managers from Agrokor were taken care of a few years ago. in Croatia post office. It should be said that every worker who works on the counter has a certain quota to sell insurance, supplementary, life-saving, how much he must sell or give credit to HPB, how much Evo-TV must sell, how much must Diners card, how many must telecom bons, somewhere even sell ice creams and other things, I guess they are not the only Croatian Post Offices yet. To make things worse, the administration sends secret customers, so mail employees or external associates who pretend to be customers and then come to the counter and scan to see if the worker will offer them all of this, credit, insurance, Diners card, etc. If a worker does not offer such a service for the first time there is a warning, for the second time a written notice, for the third time goes fired. Although most of the job is workers, for example, on the counters of the postal service domain, what really falls under the mail, the assessment criteria, or the weighting of certain activities, are just put on these additional services, so according to the workers, the type 80% rating belongs to these additional things, so it is one imbalance and senselessness. It should also be said that it is only the beginning of this terror with the sale of additional services, workers can testify to me that those who work longer, let's say 10, 15 years ago. they had bigger salaries than they have today, somewhere there in 2010 the regression was abolished completely, and it was returned only before 2.g. And it's reduced. There is a traditional problem with Christmas payout, namely, many workers are blocked and can't get a Christmas card on their hands and if we know in some state bodies it's a practice, but here it's not possible, so that Christmas card just eats a block. It also obstructs the right to strike with the answer to say, here's the pay on time, so what do you have to complain about, what kind of strike you're talking about. We also have testimony that in certain offices of the Croatian Post Office, workers must buy their own supplies, such as tape or toilet paper, weeks, months, even one testimony, 10 months. There were no such things, so they had to buy basic assets for work from their salaries. I repeat, the situation in Croatia is bad and worse, Croatia's post office as well as a monopolies, it must legally allow all shipments from court to be delivered further, so I call for the situation to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138940	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138941	We move on to the next presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138942	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to use this pause to talk about how we're going to organise a referendum, we all know that the unions in the referendum for, therefore, the 67 initiative is too much, as soon as this initiative ends on Saturday 11.5th, we start with our referendum initiative called Take the money to the parties that will last from 12th to 26. Five this month. With a referendum question: Are you willing to amend Article 6(5) of the referendum The Republic of Croatia Constitution? In a way that reads: The law regulates the position and financing of political parties. The funding of political parties from the state budget is prohibited, from the budget of local, local and regional (regional) self-government. I want to make it clear from here that as far as the Living Wall is concerned, this is just the beginning of reform and the reorganisation of the entire political and electoral system. The party we have been witnessing for 30 years must be replaced by democracy, especially direct democracy. That's why we usually support every referendum. We need a completely new system smaller, cheaper, more efficient, fairer, of course more transparent, a whole new political system with new people. The Croatian establishment of the parties that have managed Croatia for decades is responsible for the catastrophic economic, demographic, judicial and all other results, which is why much of our citizens leave our country from day to day, with its survival being questioned by the collapse of all social, pension and health services. It should be made clear to the establishment that their policies have proved completely wasteful and it is time to start over. Some would say such measures will stimulate corruption, absolutely not, corruption is now colleagues and colleagues, corruption is now and it is difficult to be worse. Just by moving this component of funding from the state budget, about 100 million kuna a year, all these clients who otherwise have strong lobbyist groups in the parties will surface. So let's see who's behind who. We all know a long time ago that this assembly is unfortunately not the place to make political decisions. That's what Mr. Vladimir Seks said at the end of the day on election night, that decisions are only being made here, that they are being made even outside the country. Therefore, it is time for all this to be brought down and to build a new system, that this assembly should not only be a farce and a voter, but be the right place to decide. It is precisely these clients that will surface one of these measures which is one of a series of measures in a completely new political system. Funding from the budget, once the component is removed, means less travel, fewer parties' meetings, fewer foster homes and, above all, more modest campaigns. The parties should be financed from donations of their members and from membership fees. It should be made clear that the policy must be last on the payment list from the state budget. Money is more needed in many other places and today we heard 200 thousand poor children are in Croatia. For years, the Croatian authorities have no interest in that. Money is more needed to be treated in the U.S. and many other children unknown, in the same and similar problem. Money is more needed for accommodation families, especially devoid, poor in social housing which are not the order to wait. The money is more needed to frame that Vukovar defender who told the minister to break into the apartment, he's 500 and some on the waiting list, he wants in 10 years, so don't look for villas and palaces, he's looking for 30 squares. Money is more needed to reduce the pressure of directors on household budgets, more is needed for farmers who are constantly promised by the agricultural bank, but nothing from it is more necessary than innovators to develop their projects and there are a thousand better ways to use that money. I therefore call on all citizens to sign, to sign so that Croatia can start over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138943	Thank you. Next statement of view on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138945	Tomorrow is the last day for signing a referendum against labor until 67 years. I call upon all men, young, old, those who work, those who do not, those who have worked, to sign the referendum as an act of solidarity, time is limited, the EU, colonial force, the colonial system in us sees slaves, slaves to death. This referendum, i.e. the signing of this referendum, is also a counter-EU policy, an act of opposing Brussels and, in fact, this non-democratic way of ruling in which the directives come outside and the obedient or servant government only executes them. Just resist, cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138946	Thank you, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138947	It is now the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the Honorable Representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138948	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. The bankruptcy of the Croatian mafia. Individual bankruptcy managers, individual experts and individual judges of the Trade Court are involved in the bankruptcy mafia. Today I am going to talk about the Marjan hotel case, that is, how it is registered in the register of the Adriatic d.d. Trade Court. The situation was complicated on April 3rd of this year when the Commercial Court in Split rejected the complaint of Rovinj Močvara j.d.o. and the Republic of Croatia who were believers. In this case, it was done contrary to the law and to the opposite of legal practice. Thus, the decision of the Judicial Council and Mr. Omazić deliberately misused the judicial position and power, resulting in the legalization of crime, laundering and concealing the trace of money made before the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings against Adriatic d.d., i.e. protecting the responsible persons in the composition of the companies in the composition of the Kerum Group, which is Sapor d.o.o., Adriatic d.d., Neva Kerum d.o.o., Kerum d.o.o., Kerum-ing. d.o.o., Kurdistan d.o.o. and a dozen other related companies. What's this about? A typical Croatian story, you forgive yourself for your debt and either through a pre-determined or bankruptcy procedure, means the Kerum Group's companies fabricated the claims, when a bankruptcy was launched in the religious council had a fictitious majority and with that fictional majority in the religious council began playing without borders. Games without borders where true believers suffer, those who have really done something, who have given some goods or services, will never be charged or will be charged a little, and those who have invented claims they will succeed. Not to say that there is a claim against 5m-euro workers along with salaries and claims. 5m euros for the citizens of Split has been threatened by the financial engineering of Mr Kerum and the Kerum Group. In addition to favouring these companies and their fictitious claims, the court also favors the Adris Group. Namely, the bankruptcy judge I mentioned acknowledged the fictitious claims of 10m euros to the Adris Group. No documentation has ever been provided to prove that these claims are correct, that they are real, neither by Mr. Kerum nor by his people, nor by the bankruptcy judge, has therefore ordered that the documentation be delivered, so there is no evidence to confirm that these claims are real, they are fictitious. The purpose of this entire operation is what? Of course, what is the goal of the entire bankruptcy mafia, to acquire large assets, valuable assets for small money, is to be eligible for fictitious claims, is to be considered here in this case and the ADRIS group that wants to reach a valuable hotel in Split on the coast. By the way, you should say when we talk about witches that we have one skill that evaluated both the value of hotels and works abnormally below any real value, all in order to make valuable assets available to those who should not have been able to afford the rights of claims unscathed and never charged. That is why I am announcing it, or I already have it here in my hand, raising criminal charges against the President of the Board of Commerce in Split, Ivica Omazic and other members of that court for committing crimes of abuse of office and authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138949	We're going to the fourth club, it's the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138950	Thank you very much, good morning, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Sometimes it's good when we're a little bit on the ground then, of course, we get the data we're kind of forgetting, we talk a lot about them, but it's always good to refresh not only our tasks here, which is the task of fighting everyone for the environment we come from, from the Vukovar-Srijem County that I'm going to pass on to you, but it's neither the task nor the possibility of getting rid of within our county depends on the government, depending on the Ministry of Health. I'm going to talk about two hospitals in the Vukovar-Srijem County area, new reports were in the county assembly, and what can we see from them? Just a re-degradation of the situation if we are talking about 2018, the Vukovar Hospital, the Croatian Veterans Hospital, it's back in negative, that minus last year was 46 million kuna when we look cumulatively, it went up to 158 million. Let me just say, 2016 was not a full 90, now we're at 158. So in 2 years we were able to reverse the situation if we look at their total liabilities on 31.12.2018 were 168 million kuna, 31 million kuna more than a year ago. You won't mind me, but clean data to make you feel the extent of increasing those obligations. When we talk about the age of a particular search, over a year there are over 53 million kuna obligations, the Vinkow hospital little helmet for this, fortunately pa helmet but still the situation is very difficult there, in 2018 the total loss was 34 million kuna, cumulatively looking, 117 million kunas all together and if we look at the state of the obligation, 123 million kunas have been total liabilities since 2014, 2015, watching the SDP Government that was somewhere at 68 million at the end of 2015, we have now reached 123 million, practically doubled. The question arises whether the government is considering this issue at all. What people are putting on the ground in the county there, especially health care professionals, is whether someone is experiencing us or these hospitals may never become clinics, but it looks like they're going to go to some clinical death because this way it doesn't work. Yesterday when we were considering it with the principals, what can we tell them? We can only give them but it's not in your power. The recovery plan that the Ministry of Health encourages to bring, it can resolve 1%, 2%, 3%, however, is insufficient to address such a demanding problem where the government has transferred management rights to the counties but has not centralised sufficient funds. If only in two hospitals, in one county we're talking about practically 3 million kunas, and that's with today because in mid- 2019, we can definitely say that it is, what's going to happen to us? Will there be only a collapse of the health system or a collapse of the entire system that is lying down, especially that local system in Vukovar-Srijem County that supplies those hospitals for living supplies, with some small services, with all those, with energy. Well, we had a situation where PPD delivered gas to... These show the demands of 2 million kunas, transfers to one and the other, each actually cancels one part or worse, or increases the price of its services aware that it will wait over a year, 2 years, so somehow it was the conclusion that we are happy, although we are not within that range for more than 3 years and that our Ministry of Health is only involved in covering something that is more than 3 years old and does not care that the current situation is so unfavourable that it will bring down the entire system not only the hospital but also the hospitals that provide good and services, and this will be passed on to the quality of our patients' services and especially Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138951	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138952	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138953	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I am speaking here today to inform the public about another victory of the Franak Association in the court battle, in the judicial war against Croatian banks in foreign ownership. Recently, these days, in fact, lawyer Srdjan Kalebota who represented the client and who is still representing client Mirna Barijon in her court case against Addiko Bank received from the Personal Data Protection Agency a solution that determines that Addiko Bank, and thus all other banks must provide the consumer with the documentation necessary for their claims. Some banks, and the leader of these banks, Addiko Bank, did not want to submit documentation to consumers who had already paid off their loans, some banks are stalling the delivery of that documentation, and a large part of the banks are charging for the delivery of that fee documentation. On the basis of a request from Srdjan Kalebota's lawyer, who, on behalf of his party, requested that such behaviour and behaviour be stopped by Addiko Banka and ordered them to submit the documentation, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data carried out the supervision of the operations of Addiko Banka. In that surveillance, the Data Protection Agency, for the protection of personal data, established that Addiko Bank does not respect the general provision, the General Data Protection Regulation, that Addiko Bank, as first under the Credit Institutions Act, has a duty and obligation 11 years after payment of a loan to be kept in storage of that documentation and on the grounds that it retains that documentation in accordance with the Regulation, the bank must, upon request of the client, submit all the documentation it keeps. In this respect, the party may not charge any compensation for this documentation and may charge any compensation if the party is unreasonable and constantly requires the same, but also where the same and the same fee has to be reasonable. So it's another battle that Franak won and it means that all banks in the event that the consumer who wants to press charges against the bank have to submit all the requested documentation related to his credit. I'll repeat now what some of the battles the Franak Association has won so far. First of all, the most important battle she won was a final verdict in the case of francs, where all 8 banks were found to have negotiated unfair provisions on the currency clause and a variable interest rate. Then she won the battle where we claimed that the outdated claims on the basis of a collective court ruling did not exist and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia confirmed that these statutes do not exist. Then we won the battle when we said that the bank's notification of the change in interest rates or the margins at interest rates is not a legal way of determining the margin, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia found by its audit 1172/18 that such a way of determining the margin was not legal, but the margin must be agreed. A margin that's not agreed on is not worth it. That's what we claimed, and the banks claimed otherwise. The next battle we received was the right of the converted debtors to establish their rights in court despite the conversion, in its decision 2868/18, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia found that despite the conversion of CHF loans, debtors who converted loans have a legal interest in determining their rights. And now we are waiting for the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the audits of banks that will probably follow by the end of July because it is announced by the Supreme Court and if that battle ends in our favour, then we will be able to declare victory in the judicial war against the banks, followed by a genuine tsunami of lawsuits against the banks that have tried in every way possible to deter people from the lawsuit, however, it will not go hand in hand. And from this point on, once again I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a legal solution that would systematically require banks to offer settlements to damaged consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138954	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138955	And now Mr. Goran Aleksic will present the position of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138956	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Honorable colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the 7th day of the 13.6th performance, do not yet appear, but it is the last day when they can turn themselves in to the court for overpaid interest from the Franak case. After that date, interest payments will be late, however, still remain until 2023. to sue for the difference of course. So from this pay phone I want to tell all those debtors who have not yet sued and those who are going to sue, the important details of the Franak case should be repeated, the repetition of the mother of wisdom and knowledge, should be repeated over and over again what is important to know. So we have on one side debtors who haven't converted their CHF loans, whether they've paid them off before the conversion, whether those loans continue to pay off at CHF amounts because they haven't made a conversion, that's one kind of debtor. Other types of debtors are those debtors, consumers, who converted CHF loans under the Law on Conversion and the situation is not exactly the same as those of the two consumer types. So those consumers who have not converted loans, who have paid them off before or who are still paying for CHF loans, can choose whether to sue now only for interest, or will sue both interest and exchange rates immediately. What is certain to them is a lawsuit for overpaid interest. If they sue such debtors for overpaid interest, such consumers, they will get all the amounts of overpaid interest and the corresponding tight interest interest because the issue is no longer a judge, the issue has been resolved and the issue is not decided by the Supreme Court. Once the Supreme Court, as announced by the end of July, decides on bank audits, then it will be time for such debtors to sue even if the Supreme Court rejects bank audits. I expect these audits to be rejected, not because I want them to, but because it's already been resolved in almost the entire EU, we have a case in France, Germany, Spain, Romania, Greece, everywhere in these countries the CHF currency clause has been declared worthless. In Greece, it was declared as worthless collectively as we do, therefore, I expect the High Court of Commerce ruling to be confirmed and the CHF currency clause to be definitely zero. Sberbank is a special situation where debtors can wait for currency and interest until 2023. Because some time later, a powerful ruling on interest was passed, so they, those debtors, these banks, can still wait until 2023. Debtor who, consumers who converted CHF loans into EUR, converted them at a time when it was not known that the currency clause CHF was zero. Since the currency clause CHF is harmful and, if this is confirmed, this means that they have converted something that does not exist in the euro. By my understanding of rights, but also by understanding the rights of many legal experts, what does not exist cannot change, how are we going to change what does not exist? Because CHF doesn't exist, that's why that conversion doesn't hold water for me. So we could watch that as if the conversions were not at all and we could sue until the end of the loan payment total amounts as if from the beginning it was supposed to be the starting rate and the initial interest rate. However, that is one question that will only be resolved. What I'm saying is that debtors from the converted loans should be sued unlike those who haven't converted, interest and exchange rate, one lawsuit now before 13.6 because the mathematical comparison of the conversion and the verdict can't be carried out unless both elements in the lawsuit are present, so I've brought up another lawsuit today, before that I've sued for no damage to the contract, in addition to the damages of the change in interest rate, and today I've sued for payment because I'm running out of time-limits for overpaid interest, so I've had to sue today for payment, but I hope that after the Supreme Court's decision on the audits of the banks will be possible to unify those two proceedings into one, and in the meantime I've asked for an end of the proceedings until the previous legal issues are resolved, between the other and that issue in the first lawsuit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138957	Thank you, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138958	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. It is the first day of the plenary session of the week, so we are taking the stand of representatives clubs and independent representatives. The first is today a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA and a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138959	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I'm going to talk a little bit more about one subject that I've been talking about, and that's an outdated claim regarding the integrity of the contract, or contract provisions. In the Republic of Croatia, there is an old-fashioned way of ageing claims related to zero contracts, i.e. zero contractual provisions. Therefore, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has adopted in several of its audits the view that, in the event of the establishment of any harmful and unfair contractual provision, that the person who found that his contract was worthless or that the contractual provisions were null, that he had the right to request claims only from the moment when unfair claims were made and 5 years after the occurrence of the limitation of claims. In other words, if 10 years ago I contracted with someone a worthless contract or a worthless contract order, if 10 years ago someone robbed me through such worthless contract provisions, if I sue today, I won't get anything. It will be determined that such a contract is worthless or that the contractual provision is harmful, but the court will determine that there have been an outdated claim and that I have no right to receive the money that someone has taken from me by using worthless contractual provisions. This is contrary to EU law which clearly and unequivocally states that if unfair and harmless contractual provisions are established, that the consumer has the right to receive all amounts that are so unfairly charged. In the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible, for example. Some euro or kuna debtor, if he agreed on unfair interest rates, and all of them contracted before 10 January 2013, the question was whether he would get back what the bank took from him, robbed, stole, increased interest rates in a way that was not allowed. EU law is clear. It says, if the contractual provision is found to be unfair, it is harmful and therefore all that is obtained in such a way must be returned. And I will now relate to a case at the European Court of Human Rights, where Switzerland has a similar regulation as we do, where an age-old claim occurs, 10 years after something unfounded is acquired. It's about the Moore case against Switzerland. Mr. Moore, who is no longer alive, worked between 65 and 78 years with asbestos dust. In 2004, he was diagnosed with cancer and died in 2005. His successor sued the state because it was essentially a professional disease, so he got cancer because he was working with asbestos dust. And the Swiss court found that he had no right to gain, that the heiress had no right to receive any money because it was obsolete because from 78 to 2000 and some years had passed over 10 years and that man had no right to money which, which should have been obtained as immaterial damage, was due to immaterial damage. However, the successor sued the European Court of Human Rights of R. Switzerland and the European Court of Human Rights found that the regulation in Switzerland did not comply with the Convention on Human Rights. He found that no outdated claims could occur before knowing that someone had a right. Therefore, this man is the knowledge or his successor of the knowledge that he has the right to claim received only when he became ill, and that was not 78 in 2004. We withdraw the analogy with some other contracts, we withdraw analogy with generally zero contractual provisions, if someone finds that a contract provision is worthless, he cannot demand money until he finds out, and what is the moment when the contract provision is found to be harmful. That's the moment when the verdict was passed. Therefore, the limitation of claims in the case of zero contracts and contractual provisions must not begin to elapse before a final court ruling. Soon the Supreme Court will decide on a review from the County Court in Rijeka that shares this opinion and my position, disagrees with the Supreme Court and I hope that the Supreme Court may change its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138997	The next Club of Representatives of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138998	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, I will talk about the subject discussed by my colleague Lovrinović, who was previously spoken of by other colleagues, above all by my colleague Panenic from MOST, as regards the agricultural land which is state-owned and which is leased by either large companies or agricultural family economies. From what we have seen and what we have been able to learn by visiting certain municipalities, the situation is such that in our Club of Representatives, the SDSS is causing serious concern. First, the difference is in the lease, the price of leases per hectare if it's about a tenant like Agrokor or now Forte's new or someone else possible and some OPG is from 3 to 7 times the price. From 280 kuna per hectare to someone like Forta is new or I don't know who else till 2200, 2300 kuna for the OPG. What's that? Who is there to subsidize and whose grandmother's flour? Does the state subsidize in this way someone with all the subsidies that... give or state via the OPG actually subsidized large companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDSS's club wants an answer to that question otherwise we will be against this kind of approach to things, in other words, if there is already another series and second row, so if the average subsidy price for a culture... Some cattle' throat, 1400, a basic subsidy of 1.400,00 kn per hectare per year, and if those who have more than 20 hectares get a bonus and young, thank God, get a bonus, it's quite clear that we can see who's privileged here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that how you stop the poverty of Slavonic areas? Is that how you stop the eviction of people from that area? I'm sure he can't. Did large tenants like Agrokor meet their 2008 contractual obligations and 2009 to this day, where it is said that it will safeguard jobs, preserve the basic forms of production that they have encountered, and as we know, according to some of the municipality's chiefs from that area, they have already abolished some forms of production the following day. For example. in Belje, as one chief said, they are left with pigs and shit; and they transfer meat to other places. Is that how we take care of these parts and those people? He certainly would not want it to be a way and quite certain that our intervention measures, which are certainly to welcome the programmes for Slavonia and other parts, would be only palitative and partial measures if such system measures were to produce discrimination and to be large companies through the policy and price of leases, financed by the burden of the OPGs or the burden of the state, and all together on the burden of units of local self-government and he thought they were going to those 65% municipalities and cities and 35% of the counties, it goes into the pocket of a large company. My colleagues and colleagues in particular, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, do not press your commissioners, they speak for their people and their municipalities, and none of us have the right to speak for those who have not been able to protect their companies, these people do not let their OPGs They're falling because they know no one's gonna help them. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Like we jumped to help Agrokor. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u138999	We're going to the fifth debate, SDSS Representatives' Club and Honored colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139000	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. And these choices, like in the previous few, have clearly shown that we are living in a time of disillusioned expectations. The idea of freedom and independence has been betrayed. Freedom has been turned into an inequality, an inequality between increasingly rich and increasingly poor, more privileged and more disenfranchised, and independence has turned into almost total colonization and growing inability to lead key policies as monetary, economic and external as independently as possible. The idea of Europe has been failed, the Union of Equal Citizens and Fair Society has been failed, the Union has become increasingly weak and has become weaker and stronger deregulations, and first favours the labour-dependent majority, while the latter favours capital and the capitalist minority. The Union of Equal Members, more underdeveloped and poorer, has failed those developed and richer serve as a pool of labour drains and extra profits. 10 years ago, this is an example that we remember well by the German public accusing Greece of unhappiness, and the Greek public accused Germany of taking over its banks what they earned. It barely prevailed, meanwhile, the systemic shortage and the Union's deficit just began to increase. So we live in a time of disillusioned expectations and instead of turning it into a time of sobriety both with us and around us, there are multiple assumptions about new drunks as Krleža would say. A new relief of expectations, a new well-known bad past, is once again offered as a better future. Therefore, a new nationalism will not save us because nothing positive has been created in it, nor will anything positive be created in it. Nationalism certainly can't replace false patriotism. Although these are two alternatives for this country she is then without an alternative. He needs to be replaced by an alliance of responsible and sobered. Therefore, it should be said that even new sovereignty will not save us because it is neither saved nor America, let alone Croatia. As with nationalism, he does not seek his foothold to reduce inequality, increase unemployment, increase solidarity and remove inequality between nations and countries, but rather in raising wires and walls, whether real, whether mental in hate and prejudice. Instead of fraternizing between unequal and unequal, he offers slavery in hatred of others, various and slavery of the obsession of independence and sovereignty in times when our people become independent and sovereign citizens in other countries such as Ireland and such as Germany. The fact that we live in a time of disillusioned expectations and the first to speak something that resembles the language of hope, the orientation of a dominant horizon of hopelessness that exists in us, and also in the good part of Europe, is our fault, in the first place. It's not even a church that wants more power than politics and banks, nor are banks that want more power with capitalists, nor are new nationalists, new sovereigns, and at least disoriented and disoriented citizens of this country, it's our fault. We who still speak the hollow language of patriotism as our country disappears. We who speak in the language of false social justice, and it collapses from day to day, we who speak in the language of unconvincing Europeanism, and it is all about the outflow of social and financial capital. All of us who don't say what's right And we're not talking about how it should be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139001	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139002	The next Club of Representatives of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139003	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SDSS Club wants to express its serious opposition and concern over the fact that our colleague, Veljko Kajtazi, Roma representative and 11 other national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, for the second time, in the field of the Internet, and then here in the premises of the Croatian Parliament, was attacked verbally by fellow MPs. Ugly words, harsh words, inadmissible words that have passed so far without sanctions, and I hope that this assembly will have the strength, that not only we representatives of national minorities, but the entire assembly including the presidency says what needs to be said. Obstruction of today's press conference of representatives of Kajtazi and the roof organisation of the Roma community in Croatia KALI SARA here in the Croatian Parliament by representatives of Zekanovic represents an outrageous form of attack on integrity and on the work of a parliamentary representative. And that kind of impertinence and that kind of feeling that other people can be disturbed, especially in a vulnerable community such as the Roma community in Croatia, a community that has suffered the most from all the perilous peoples in the Second World War, and which today suffers the serious consequences of insufficient social integration, insufficient social affirmation in this country, insufficient economic affirmation in this country, insufficient political support, attack against a representative of Keatazi, and I can testify as I believe that others can. Radin and others who have been in this HS are actually an attack on the attempt to change all of this because the Katezi representative in his several mandates as long as he is sitting in HS has done so much for the Roma community that the institutions and state policies haven't done for decades, committed to working on repairing the infrastructure, that Roma are educated, that they are participating in the authorities, therefore, everything that can remove weaknesses in relations between the Roma community and the environments in which they live. We know that there are problems here, and we know that some people like that with these people in Međimurje who tomorrow stage a protest against Roma to spread intolerance towards them, to deepen the intolerance between Roma and the wider environments in which they live, and to be disturbed by an HS agent, by Keatazi, by his work, for serious concern. So, MP Katezi shows that society needs to approach changing the situation of the Roma and changing the situation among the Roma themselves, achieving a degree of education, raising the quality of life and increasing their involvement in social flows at a higher speed than has been in recent years and over the past decades. Using the opportunity of intolerance to the Roma community for its political affirmation, such as Zekanovic does, shows only one more, is another indicator of a serious cause of concern when it comes to our political scene and our political consciousness. I am sure that other members of the National Minority Club, where the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will also do everything possible to ensure that this HS takes the right position, that the messages that MP Kajtazi receives and interferes with his work, come under serious condemnation and that he gets support for what he does, and we think he's committed himself, to make up for what many institutions haven't done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139004	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139005	The SDSS representative club also reported on behalf of its club. In their name will speak Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139006	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs and the MPs. A few days ago, while we were still busy with election results, black swans, white mouse and other animal personifications of our European expectations and our Croatian realities, almost unobservedly, a newspaper text came through which, although short enough to warn or worry. Namely, the results of four years of research in the Republic of Croatia were published, which included 1402 students, followed from 1st to 3rd grade of secondary school. Research included economic difficulties in the family, psychosocial problems, and the course of education. And what's most charming in this whole story is that the results are shocking. 13% of high school students have serious symptoms of depression, and even every 5th thinks about suicide. Let's think about the fact that every 5th high school kid openly tells us that he's thinking about suicide. The same research shows that 13% of young people committed peer violence among students in the 1st grade and 15% of domestic violence and close relationships. In its report, the Ombudsman specifically referred to cases of violence against children and among children in educational-educated institutions, indicating that the problem remains unaccompanied by appropriate preventive and protective measures. Although violence prevention programmes are numerous and diverse in the education system, they are often not evaluated and their effectiveness is questionable. The Ombudsman for children made it clear that there should be a single strategy and preventive programmes with unique principles and guidelines, easily applicable and available in schools. It is clear to the Ombudsman for children that the design of new efficient and professionally-based programmes requires additional energy, time and money and has supported existing, quality and evaluated programmes as one of the solutions. And what exactly did high school students tell us? As the biggest difficulty, high school students pointed out the adaptation at school, the wrong professional orientations, peer violence, inability in school and in the family. So, the children clearly and loudly told us what the problem was, the children warned us, and on all of us, is it our responsibility to listen to them, as senior counseling and guidance, or are we going to do it again, using animal personifications, as an owls to push his head into the sand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139007	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139008	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is not common for me to speak on behalf of the club at any autobiographical moment, but I will begin this morning. On May 2, 1995, therefore, the second day after the Flash, I went to Jasenovac for the first time in my life. Everything I've finished since school, as people say, I ended up in the Republic of Croatia and none of those schools, primary, secondary schools, colleges, postgraduate and doctoral studies have taught me that I hate anyone, I haven't heard any lessons or lessons from any of those teachers in which any ethnic group or religious group should be objects of hatred and never once through any of that system of education, and I've told you every year you will go to Jasenovac to see what kind of crime happened there. So, for the first time, I knew about Jasenovac, but for the first time I went away on May 2, 1995, and neither today nor live with a shred of hate, but I live in a country of hate and violence motivated by ethnic hatred and motivated ethnic violence. And when I hear that one of the primary schools in Zagreb has issued a warning before the exclusion of the teacher, the president of MENS, therefore, among the most intelligent citizens of this country according to the criteria that psychologists objectively measure them, a warning or reproof before being fired because he wrote something in his work on facebook that we should all think about. And what is it that all eight people listen to when they go to Vukovar every year as mandatory? What is it they listen to? They listen, for example. that one of the MPs sitting in this House and the party president before I became one parliamentary party, whom no one has ever condemned and no institution has initiated any criminal proceedings, someone there giving lectures to eighth grade students saying Vojislav Stanimirovic is a war criminal. If he's a colleague and a colleague, feel free to consider me as well today. As much as he's as alone and I'm calling the DORH to hear what I said. I'm a war criminal who's been fighting hate and war for 30 years and I'll fight and be in a club of such criminals. And then we wonder that children, a young world decapitated by not a few people here in this House the same with their hate messages for their colleagues of different political beliefs or different ethnicities. We're surprised that these children reach out for violence and blame them but it's not their fault, it's our fault. It is those who are in the position of the President of the Republic who listen to the shouting "Kill, kill a Serb" and say we haven't heard. Or those who say that singing "For Home is ready" by a resident singer at his concerts of patriotism and his manager pronounces me a Chetnik. I'll tell him no, I'm not a Chetnik, I belong to the club of those who are war criminals because they've been fighting for years for peace, fighting for tolerance and hate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139009	Dear Pupovac, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139010	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139011	We are going to the next discussion of SDSS Representatives' Club and respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139012	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs in Serbia on Saturday, was the occasion of a match between the Croatian Serb team and the Serbian national team, it was a beautiful story on Saturday, a good game, with fair and correct cheer, with a sports applause for every good move on the ground and thanks to the hosts for their hospitality, thank you and for a truly good household and congratulations on their victory. In fact, we didn't just go to the game, I was part of a strong political delegation of Serbs to Croatia, we visited the Croatian National Council, the roof organisation of Croats in Serbia and the Democratic Union of Vojvodina Croats, the main political strength of Croats in Serbia. We talked about better cooperation, stronger integration, how today we are actually a force that calms and connects our two countries. When I came in on Sunday I wanted to see the media follow up on that visit, what I saw first was the title, so many ugly and threatening messages I got on Brač that I couldn't stay, said the attack Serb in Supetar. And he didn't stay. It's just amazing to me that we have to talk about it again, it's just amazing to me that the victim of a physical zero-provoked attack is getting threats that he can't stay and earn his bread. Someone wrote it right after the attack, I read it, says why those Serbs went down if they know they can have problems, why they provoke. Yes indeed, why do these Serbian citizens go freely to Croatia and seek work and provoke? A part of society unfortunately thinks so, and while that part of society has a voice in public, that voice will drag us on the plow. I'll read you something else. In Croatia, there was an escalation of racist hate speech against Serbs, LGBT persons and Rob, which has been in the Council of Europe's 2012 report. – 2017 which was published, so last year in May 2018. So last year. It seems that the period from 2017 to 2020 may be worse, although perhaps the head of the Council of Europe will be a person from Croatia. Our national impatience has been eating away at society, system and politics for 30 years. Maybe beating up and killing in Viskovo isn't ethnically motivated even though a lot of things indicate that unfortunately it is. The minister said the perpetrator was arrested, but the case reminds me a lot of me of the case of Jovan Borovic, our colleague Bulj knows who Jovan Borovic is, it's the man who was beaten on his doorstep, on Orthodox Christmas '98, and the judicial epilogue was welcomed last year, so 20 years after the man was beaten, after he died, the murderers got a year in prison. As far as Supetar is concerned, there is no need to be surprised, we raise young people who are affected by hatred on a national basis, but young people are not guilty, it's politics, it's the education system, it's the public television. Don't tell me it's not like that, it's not the way I talk. Well, we threw the hedgehog out of the book because it was written by a Serb and because it speaks Serbian. I now want to ask you all in the hall because I believe that if most, if you don't all have children or grandchildren, what should I tell the children who will attend this summer, to attend the summer school of Serbian language in one place in Dalmatia? Do those shirts they're going to get, Serbian Summer School, wear or not? Is summer T-shirt, summer school a provocation or not a provocation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139013	We are going to the 6th debate of SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected colleague Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139014	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected colleague and fellow MPs, was held on Sunday 23.6. the Day of Remembrance of Jadovno in '41. It has been a memorial organised for years by the Serbian National Council, the coordination of the Jewish municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, the Eparchy of Upper Carlovakia and the Alliance of Antifascist Fighters and Antifascists of the Republic of Croatia. This year, a number of descendants of victims, activists, guests, representatives of the government, representatives of the diplomatic court gathered at the ceremony, but what made me want to talk about this memorial today is not just a memorial but rather a police act that provided the rally. The police act in most parts was correct and professional, but in one part we feel that it was not so and we are obliged and we must make an objection to it. This refers therefore to the welcome and the shooting of participants together. Most of the participants complained together that the police were getting on buses, filming faces by bringing in a camera, so man by man, and people saw it as an insult to their dignity because it was mostly about older people who came to pay tribute to the victims. They want the law to be respected, they want the police to act undisturbed, they want the whole set to go best, yet such police conduct put them in a position to feel guilty just because they came to the memorial. I hope none of them took it as a scare that next year won't come to Jadovno. I expect the police to keep an eye on these things when they're acting because this isn't about hooligans we expect to break the law or the history of keeping a memorial is such that it's full of misdemeanors and offenders. And I have to ask, is the Police Act we're going to discuss tomorrow in this House of Commons not talking about the principle of proportionality in police treatment? That the principle of proportionality must be taken into account when acting, that the order and order must be based on the law and that a police officer, when applying police powers, does not take care to apply the least and to achieve the purpose of performing police work. As far as I'm aware of the regulations, the recording had to be announced and according to the information I have, the organisers were not aware that there would be shooting and that there would be shooting in this way. The people who come to Jadovno certainly deserve the commendation and encouragement that they keep to the memory of Jadovno for what the state actually forgot because the Ustasha camp Jadovno was actually a site that was only called a camp, there were people killed and their bones were blown up by numerous well-known and unknown caves of Velebit. One of the greatest and most famous is the Sharan Cave. For those of you who don't know, the Jadovno camp worked from the draft NDH to the 8th month. '41. a few locations. What is certainly a shame of the state is Slano which was part of the complex of Jadovno camp, today it is a place which has been marked with nothing that was really there. The speciality of Slana is that the remains of the camp were preserved, which preserved the remains of what the prisoners with their bare hands without tools built themselves. And today you can find pieces of barbed wire and nails in the bay of Slano by '91. Because there was a panel that was placed there that was set up in '75. in memory of the victims but she is unfortunately broken. 20 years after the memorial organizers, they set up a new record that was only there for two days. In 2013, a third memorial panel was set up, but unfortunately it was broken too. We don't take salt today, we don't take it. We don't do it. We don't do it. We don't do it. Slano is invisible today but the great Dasa Drndic, writing about Slana, wrote "there is no record, the past has been erased on Pag, the memory buried but what is buried can be dug up, what has gone down, eventually surfaces."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139015	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139016	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are going to talk about those citizens in the Republic of Croatia who have been disproved, who suffer inequality and who are on the border or below the poverty line. This specifically refers to 3 groups or 3 social groups in our society. First they're young, second they're old, third they're women. These few data that I will present in each of these three groups illustrate what I intend to show, and what indicators in society clearly show, but not political awareness and not political action, either by political parties or by government institutions or the state. As far as young people are concerned, every three young people in the Republic of Croatia are out of a job. So 30.7% of the younger than 29 years in the Republic of Croatia is out of a job. Even 60% of young people in the Republic of Croatia under the age of 31.8 live with their parents. This is significantly above the EU average, and even more significantly, almost double the average of Scandinavian countries. The reasons why this is so, why young people live with parents, until such a late age, do not enter their own marriage relationships, don’t start a family, don’t give birth to children is, of course, a high percentage of unemployment, as I have already said, poorly paid jobs that work and especially non-permanent and occasional jobs that succeed. And what is particularly devastating for society and for young people is that the youngest generations fail to be involved in the field of work and thus participate in the acquisition of a culture of work that is of exceptional importance for our society, because what we have recorded over the past 30 years is a rapid, drastic decline in the culture of work and working values in our society. This is a direct consequence, among other things, of the fact that young people are too late to enter the field of work and that they are waiting for a long time, and because it takes so long, many have decided to go to countries that can make it possible for them. As far as old people are concerned, the average pension, and the average pension is not the real indicator of the state of pension, is 2 688 kuna. However, 216, nearly 217 thousand pensioners receive a pension of 1700 kuna. The peace of 1700 kuna for a single or single pensioner is almost on the poverty line. The poverty line according to our indicators is 25 thousand kn of annual income. And another indicator. In the last three years, no social, retirement home has been built and for the powerless. The average length of waiting to get home is 10 to 12 years. As for workers, including workers, almost 20% of employees in our country or 278,000 employees, I will say better and among them young and women are most prominent for occasional, temporary jobs, seasonal work or work for a certain time. And then we wonder why they go to Germany, Austria and Ireland. There is a percentage of those who work for a certain time almost twice as much as we do in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139017	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139018	The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, honourable representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the previous 7.8 statements by our colleagues from the opposition, we have heard that they have a solution to all challenges in the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to shipbuilding and about agriculture and when it comes to Agrokor and about pension reform, when it comes to tax reform, they have solutions for all and they are about to refer here to the HS procedure. And at the same time, I read on Saturday in a Croatian journal in the press that, that our colleagues from the opposition, 33, had experienced such indignation at the Constitutional Court, which is not remembered in an independent Republic. In fact, 33 MPs from the opposition signed a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Agricultural Land Act, arguing that the law was unconstitutional for the reason it was adopted by an emergency procedure and was adopted in a regular procedure. That it was unconstitutional because the debate with the interested public had not been held, and this debate was held. For the reason that no impact assessment of the regulation has been made, which has been carried out. So for these reasons, the Constitutional Court did not refuse it, because when it refuses, then it means that it enters into the measure of the individual request submitted by parliamentary deputies, but rejected the request, not arguing it at all. So, our colleagues from the opposition, on the one hand, offer solutions here, know all how certain things will be solved, know how to solve, whether the issue of Agrokor, have all the solutions for Croatian shipbuilding, now I hear that a new proposal will come to change tax laws, and on the other hand, a very simple act that should be explained to the Constitutional Court, they wrote unfoundedly, they have practically shown themselves to political amateurs, not to say... At the same time, I say, while talking about their knowledge of all areas of social life in Croatia, one of the fundamental remarks to the Croatian government that reforms are not being implemented, and this government has spent a number of reforms over the past 2.5 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since tax reform, reforms in the Agrokor concert, which is a kind of economic reform, road reform, reform of educational reform, which has just been discussed by counterpart Curaj, then pension reforms, then the establishment of the State Inspectorate, which is also a kind of reform, the abolition of state agencies, etc., etc. But when a certain reform is implemented, they resist to cancel some of these reforms by joining the union's request for a referendum on pension reform. However, I must say that I have not heard the trade unions complain at all, let alone launched an initiative to call a referendum because it defines 67 years of life as an age limit for going to retirement, and we know that this age limit is defined in 2014 at the time of the SDP Government. But then I say there was no protest, nor were there any referendum initiatives, and the pension reform itself at its heart is the stabilisation and sustainability of the pension system so that in the next 20 years Croatian citizens should not be charged with 45 billion kuna, what is the calculation that it will cost the Republic of Croatia in the event that pension reform is not implemented and on the one hand. On the other hand, if this reform is not implemented, there will be a 5-7% reduction in pensions in the Republic of Croatia and what needs to be done, here at the end just to say and point out once again, that 67 years as a cessus for retirement will be for those pensioners who do not have more than 40 years of training by that year. So, all together, we're still here at the club to look back several times on pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139020	And we're going to the last debate today of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139021	I thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I will also refer to the pension reform and the referendum initiative on behalf of the HDZ Club. At this point, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is carrying out an information campaign on solutions, elements and achievements of pension reform, and what it does before, long before it did, the trade unions started with a referendum initiative. On the other hand, during the pre-election campaign, trade unions carry out a referendum initiative against the same pension reform with plenty of fat political and logistical support from opposition parties. It is interesting that the fact that political opposition parties in Croatia provide logistical support to trade unions does not bother them during this duration of signing collection. Perhaps in this union opposition complex, there is a reason why union representatives yesterday expressed their dissatisfaction with them with the humble response of citizens in signing such a referendum initiative. Perhaps, perhaps, the unions should imagine whether this is exactly the fact that opposition parties, who brought such solutions to them five years ago, are now giving them support, the reason for such a small response to citizens. It is that, today, the Constitutional Court will discuss whether it will ask the government to declare to them what the purpose of this information campaign is. And on the basis of a recommendation from the Venice Commission. But let's say it's the Venice Commission. So, the Venice Commission is the advisory body of the Council of Europe, the same Council, which our colleagues here called sovereigns and who were Satanized, for example, by a fellow member of the MOST, who also beat themselves that the sovereigns are the same advisory body of the Council of Europe, so the Venice Commission calls on and wants to stop the government from sovereignly in its own country from deciding whether a reform that is demanding, complex and structural is really presenting the achievement of that same reform. But even when we talk about the recommendation of the Venice Commission, then we need to take the pre-referendum phase and the referendum phase. In the pre-referendum phase, the Venice Commission does not claim anywhere that it is forbidden for the government to promote its policies and pension reform. The second thing is that we are talking about the referendum phase, the referendum phase is the moment when a decision is made to call a referendum. And then from the day of the decision, until the citizens' statement on the referendum issue takes place a referendum phase, and at that stage, it is forbidden for the government to finance a pro-tourendum campaign, but the government can continue to oppose such a referendum issue. And today we hear from those who were during the referendum phase when there was a referendum on marriage, government ministers Kukuriku coalition, SDP ministers and other governments, and other ministers in the same government publicly opposed the same referendum on marriage in the Republic of Croatia. At that time, they did not mind spending public money and promoting their policies on television, resisting a referendum on marriage, and now they have a problem with the government promoting its own, its own reform in the pre-referendum phase. Also, I must say, I find it strange that my colleagues from the SDP are opposed and say the government is obstructing the referendum. This did not bother them, for example, that their mayors of Rijeka and Sisak in the referendum they organised and whose initiator was “In the name of the family” and “The Truth of Istanbul” do not give and do not allow the stands to these activists of one and other initiatives to implement and collect signatures in their cities. So then the SDP did not mind obstructing, for example, the collection of signatures and now, when I say, in this pre-reference process, promoting an extremely successful pension reform because it is not that this pension reform is not good, the opposition would not respond in this way and in this way to those solutions that will increase pensions in Croatia and relieve and make all the entire pension system sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139022	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Grmoi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139023	Mr. President, Article 238, was injured, and this is where MP Bačić rudely attacked Professor Baric. The latter, meaning by questioning his views and comparing relations to sovereignty and his views on the fact that the government is spending public money in order to attack a referendum initiative and then even in its performance it calls for SDP, So we also know that HDZ and SDP are against the referendum [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] We know that, you're against a referendum statement. [[Break president: Comrade Grmoi, thank you.]] Citizens, both of them, we know that. [[Breaking president: colleague, colleague of the Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139024	Why are you ignoring me like that? You said 10 seconds more than you should. I gave you something you didn't even need to say, you replicated, and then another 10 seconds longer. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139025	In 238, a colleague told a lie, said the sovereigns were saying something about the Council of Europe, and I'm not the only one representing that group here, I never said that, so that's what's been told. And here I have to make a comment... Please, [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please, Comrade Bacic, a little quieter. [[President: Do not, colleague Bačić./]] But why doesn't the government finance, for example? Here's the final proposal for a commercial? The final proposal of the Law to confirm a framework agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual defence cooperation rather than this? So this very law is chosen when it is a referendum to finance and some other laws are not funded.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139026	I don't know. I don't even know what to tell you. Here you go, colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139027	Thank you. Article 238, counterpart Bačić was supposed to tell the truth, so he was a video but he was financed by the SDP and not the Government, and here the government is funding a video against the referendum and that is the main difference. According to the Venice Commission, during the referendum, they can express their views but the government cannot and what you are doing with this is very clear. You want to bring down the union's referendum initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139028	Okay, and this was a kind of replica, but since we've come to an end with these debates by the clubs, I'm not gonna intervene any more than I'm gonna let you know about the next one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139029	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I had no intention of presenting a position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club but offered me these few words by my colleague Stazic, incorrectly interpreting the words of President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović. So, Mrs. McNally. The president congratulated today on the day of victory, the day of Europe, thanked all anti-fascists who contributed to the release of Europe, and so did Croatia from fascism, and I also join the congratulations, but my colleague Stazic wrongly said the other part, in which he said on Facebook on the status of the President and her publication, she thanked all those who were injured at Bleiburg and thus implicated that she was referring to former NDH soldiers. She made it very clear and wrote it, it's very simple to read but not wrong to interpret that we remember all those innocent victims, civilians and children who were after II. svt. The war suffered by those same anti-fascists whose contribution was in II. svt. The war. I would also add that among those victims in the most part were former NDH soldiers who, like all other prisoners of war, were to be tried rather than convicted on the spot after the NDH military surrendered to Bleiburg. These are important differences, fellow Stazic, you can never understand it, you cannot accept that as all prisoners of war after the capitulation were tried except for them. They were not tried for that reason and they, like everyone else, deserve and drink, and we pray for them, and in particular, she pointed out a number of civilians, children, women who were killed in Bleiburg by that same army, and you have now abused your five minutes as you do very often in order to first distort other people's words and then deal with those same people, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139031	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. As announced, I'm setting a break until 14 p.m. when we move on with our work. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139032	Representative Branko Bačić will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, who also applied for a position.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is listening to several exposés of its predecessors, it would be possible to conclude that Croatia is going in the wrong direction, that there is nothing in Croatia that would indicate that Croatia is safe, healthy society, because if there is anything to say about the government's work, if one mathematically accurate indicator of how the government of a country is doing, then it is certainly one of the most important indicators, growth or decline of GDP, or growth of the economy in one country. So I would remind all of us here after these black news that we heard this morning, that after Croatia exited from the process of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, after a second year in a row of budgets, after we were returned to investment ratings, Croatia proved to be the fastest or one of the fastest growing economies in the EU in the first quarter of this year. GDP growth of 3.9% speaks of government work, primarily talking about government work, says the government has set up a macroeconomic framework, that it has set up such an environment in which the economy is growing, in which for example, to give the correct data to increase exports at a rate of 4.6%, that the growth of industrial production is at a rate of 2.7%, that personal consumption that speaks of a better standard of living for our citizens is growing at 4.4%. And above all, I was reminded by my colleague Mrsic when he spoke about European funds, when he spoke about the capacity of the state administration to respond to the need to finance investments in Croatia through European funds, that in the first quarter of this year, there was an increase in investment at 11.5%. Such growth rates Croatia did not record. And then I would remind my colleague Mrsic and all of us that 80% of all public investment in Croatia is based on European funds. According to the fact that Croatia is not teamed up in terms of human resources, it would not have happened that at the moment we are curving more funds from eu funds than as a member of the EU budget, which is about 14 billion kuna at this time, which is practically the basis for such a high rate of investment growth in Croatia. So I said in the public sector, and when we talk about the Peljesk Bridge and when we talk about investment in the rail system, when we talk about investments in sea and airports, it all reflects in a certain way then on the growth of investment, the rise of the construction sector which is one of the biggest drivers of GDP growth in Croatia. So listening to all morning my colleagues talking about the situation in Croatia would be able to conclude that nothing is happening in Croatia or if something is going on in the wrong direction. And I'm saying, if we can measure the government's work by something, it's primarily these indicators that talk about employment growth, about increasing the number of pension insurance insurance insurance insurance insurance, which means that there's an increase in the number of employees, etc., etc. Therefore, it is the important data that speaks of the government's work. And in order for this growth to occur, it was necessary to make significant reforms in Croatian society. One of these reforms is, of course, Agrokor, not to say that reform is one of the most important tax reforms, pension reform, restructuring of the road sector, etc., etc. So these are all the conditions that prompted this growth and I wanted to give my address on behalf of the HDZ Club one other picture on this morning that we spent in these club statements this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139034	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139035	Now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139036	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The first part of the statement on behalf of clubs referred to the protection of water in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian government's policy towards a visible economy, and it comes to the impression that the debate on water will take place in this House in a few years, and in fact today the first 3 laws apply to water and the water economy. This statement, on behalf of the clubs, was used by Mrsic to imput HDZ that by forming a water institute, he wanted to arrest one of his members, so I would remind him that the Water Institute, the Institute of Water, was introduced in 2009 by the Croatian legal and legislative system, so 10 years ago, and the Water Institute was neither a fiction of this government nor created now as a need for any employment or resolution. In fact, the Water Institute was created 10 years ago and in the law itself, Art. The 212 laws explain the intention of the government to establish the Water Institute. I would remind all those who, even a colleague of Mrsic, that by the Government Regulation, and then later by implementing that regulation, 54 different agencies, institutions and institutes have been abolished through the amendment of numerous HS laws. If it had been up to us in HDZ, as he called it, then we would have probably kept those agencies and there would have been plenty of room for entanglement, while on the other hand, by abolishing those 54 agencies, we have abolished the numerous agencies that your government, whose minister you were. Now I have taken away the count of everything that was established in your mandate exactly how, the unnecessary agencies that we have now abolished, and the Croatian state will not feel at all that these agencies are being seduced. They were so that the SDP could imprison its members. That's what there were stories about here in HS, I was then, then I was an opposition representative. We listed almost every law that was passed here at HS was intended to imprison a number of SDP officials at all levels. Therefore, when you speak to Mrsic, you need to get a little more information, you would see that the institute in the Croatian legislative system has already been existing for over 10 years. I will briefly refer to the presentation of my colleagues, Pupovac and my colleagues, Zekanovic, but before that, I will say what I said yesterday, and as also said by the Prime Minister and the president of the Republic of Croatia, which is that we strongly condemn the hooliganism that is happening on the Croatian streets, which is directed against a number of members of the Serb national minority in Croatia and condemn such conduct and we require the state institutions to prosecute all those who have committed such violence and that appropriate penalties be imposed by the perpetrators of such violence. But we have to ask ourselves whether we here in HS, with a speech that often represents verbal violence, contributes to the transfer of our verbal violence in the Assembly to Croatian streets and becomes a physical violence in which some members of the Croatian society suffers, especially members of the Serb community in Croatia. So we here in HS and when we perform on behalf of, when a fellow Pupovac performs on behalf of his community in Croatia, we must make sure that he does not initiate his speech, such as his colleague Zekanovic, who then continues to step forward and contributes to this verbal violence here in HS, so I call on our voice to be the voice of reason that will contribute to the calming of tensions in Croatia, which will contribute to better quality co-existence in the Republic of Croatia, and the wounds of the Homeland War will obviously heal for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139037	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague of the Sunchana Glavak, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, very briefly. I would like to refer to what he said in his address to his colleague, Glasovic, therefore, is a company from Goric from Meizo County, Meiso. I just want to share with you the information that a meeting will be held on Tuesday to try to find a new model for the company's recapitalisation. That, of course, according to all the legal procedures, the head of the company will be chosen to meet all the conditions. So recapitalisation should be about 28 million kuna. The debt of Meis at this point is unfortunately greater than the company's core capital, so the state should also launch bankruptcy, but we will not allow it and none of the workers will remain on the street. I believe that everything the state does will go to the benefit of the workers, and I believe that to the satisfaction of everyone who does Meisa Goric, that Tuesday will find a model for the recapitalisation and say once again, the company will continue to operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139039	I thank my colleague Glavak. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue to work on Monday, 17 June at 9 a.m. and 30 a.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/352 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 595. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 13.22 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139040	Mr Branko Bačić will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I had no intention of reacting on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club but to my reaction I was encouraged by Mrs. Romana Jerkovic, a colleague of Jerkovic, who, without any knowledge of the need to comment on the Emergency Medical Service network in my county of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and especially on the island of Korčula, tried to call people who have been working for decades to establish such a high level of service on the island of Korcula. The island of Korčula is probably as one of the rare if not the only island in the Republic of Croatia in its area to have two home health. One is in the guard of Korčula and the other is in charge of the main area of the town of Korčula, the other is Vela Luka, who is responsible for the municipality of Vela Luka and the municipality of Blato. The organisation of these homes of health took place 30 years ago when consent was reached in the island of Korčula and how hospitals in Blat, Veli Luka and the town of Korčula will be organised when two homes of health are formed. And then, between the then directors or directors, whatever they call the head of these health cells, it is agreed that the establishment of a health home in Veli Luka will establish hospitals in Veli Luka and are prescribed and listed which are the infirmarys and which are provided for in Blato in Korčula. And then this agreement, signed by the leaders of these health stations, agreed to establish an emergency medical service in Blato with pediatrics, with ophthalmology and other services such as orthopedics, such as internal services, etc., to be organized in the Great Luka. And on the basis of this agreement, a home of health was established, a common home of health for the area of today’s Municipality of Blato and today’s municipality of Vela Luka. And on the basis of this agreement, in 2011, when a network emergency medical service was established in Croatia, the head of the Municipality of Blato and the municipality of Vela Luka and the head of the Municipality of Smokvica, on the basis of this agreement and on the basis of the arguments given by the profession, agreed that team T1 for the area of Blato and Vela Luka was established in Blato and thus the service was organised. With SDP coming to power in Croatia, without arguments, without any proceedings conducted, without seeking consent of the competent county, simply the Emergency Medical Service act, by the will of the Minister, of the then Minister Ostojić, transferred to Vela Luka and later when HDZ regained responsibility, based on a request established with the Municipality of Blato, returned in that manner to the organisation of the Emergency Medical Service as established in 1979, respected colleagues Jerkovic when your father seemed to me to be the president of the municipality of Korčula, then the agreement was established, which you may not know, but I will still teach you, which was agreed by the directors of health stations from which the Home of Health came to Veli Luka Dr. Ante Franulović, if you need to know this too, the heads of the Municipality of Blato and Vela Luka and Smokvice when a team of T1 Emergency Medical Services was formed, agreed and there was a document signed with the agreement of the three municipalities in Blato and then by the sole will of you from the SDP without any coordination with the Emergency Medical Services Office, with the necessary prior consent of the County you made it a political act. That mistake was corrected. As for the functioning of Vela Luka's home of health, he is very well organized, this minister has made it possible to be on duty during the weekend, during a day in Vela Luka so that certain demands and needs of citizens of Vela Luka, who are only a few kilometers away from the T1 checkpoint in Blato, can be further raised to a higher level. Therefore, this statement of yours was extremely political, Unargumented and for one purpose only [[Time, thank you very much.]] in order to try to devastate, or... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Infringement of the reputation of both the county and the minister responsible for this, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139042	Thank you very much, thank you. We'll continue at 14:30. It's the 13th.47 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139043	The second is the Club of HDZ Representatives, respected counterpart Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139044	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we mark International Day against Drug Abuse, drugs are a multiple threat to our societies that affects the lives of millions of citizens around the world, which is why coordination at national, European and international level is necessary. The latest data show that more than a million illegal drugs have been seized annually in Europe. Nearly 100 million adults have tried some illegal drugs during their lives, and it is estimated that 1.2 million people are starting treatment for addiction due to the consumption of illegal drugs. Marijuana remains Europe's most widespread illegal drug which is clearly evident from data on prevalence, seizure and new treatment requirements. The quantities of seized hashish are more than double the amount of herbal cannabis. The usual content of THC psychoactive substances has almost doubled as concerns about possible adverse consequences. According to estimates, about 1% of adults aged 15-64 in the EU consume marijuana daily or almost daily. Marijuana is today a matter that is often referred to as the main reason why people are first involved in the treatment of specialised addiction services. Cocaine is the most frequently consumed illegal psychostimulative drug in the EU. The latest data on cocaine shows that both the number seized and the amount of cocaine seized has reached a record level. 140.4 tons of cocaine compared to the previous year of 70 tons speaks of an alarming increase in cocaine consumption. There is evidence that social media, places on the crypto market and encryption techniques play a growing role in enabling drug trafficking other than large criminal gangs to deal with smaller groups and individuals. From the new methods of distribution, I quote so-called. Uberization of trade in cocaine, i.e. The existence of cocaine call centres with fast and flexible courier delivery. Heroin remains the most common illegal opiate on the European drug market and contributes most to the cost of treatment and to the general costs of society. According to the report, synthetic drug production in Europe appears to be growing and becoming increasingly diverse and innovative, new substances are used to obtain the chemicals needed to produce synthetic drugs. The goal is to avoid drug detection but that includes more complex processing procedures. In 2017, 21 extasy production laboratories were discovered in the EU, an increase of 11 compared to the previous year and all laboratories were located in the Netherlands. Croatia is considered a transit country for drug trafficking, this route was mostly used before to smuggle heroin originating in Afghanistan and has recently been used to smuggle other illegal drugs. Most of the seized marijuana originates in Albania and is smuggled in Croatia by land via Montenegro and BiH. More recently, the use of maritime routes has been reported. Although the number of cannabis plantations in Croatia has remained stable over the past 3 years, there has been an increase in so-called number. Inner breeding. A shipment of cocaine that traditionally came from countries in South and Central America used to be transported to Croatia only by sea or land from Western Europe or Turkey. In recent times, organised crime groups in the Western Balkans, some of which also have Croatian members have established cocaine routes from Latin America in co-operation with cartels and imports directly into the European market. Amphetamines and extasy are mainly smuggled from producer countries such as Belgium and the Netherlands and Eastern Europe and Asia. Available data shows that new psychoactive substances are mainly purchased online. The President of the Management Board of the European Medicines Agency, Laura dArrigo, concludes: The European Drug Report for 2019 comes at a critical moment to reflect on the achievements of the drug policy because the final assessment of the EU's eight-year anti-drug strategy will be carried out next year. During this period, dramatic changes in the drug situation occurred in Europe, including the emergence of a larger number of uncontrolled substances. Understanding the current drug problems allows us to prepare ourselves for future challenges in this complex area that is changing at a high speed. As a result, the role of the European Drugs Agency, which allows for evidence-based analyses in terms of today's drug situation in Europe, is so crucial.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139045	The following statement on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139046	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here I have reported here today for taking a position to congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of the Government on behalf of Cuba and on behalf of all MPs in this House. Marija Pejcinović Buric, in the election for the Council of Europe's secretary-general and the great result she achieved by winning 159 votes in the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly against 105 votes to how much her opponent, Belgian Foreign Minister Mr. Reynolds, received. The certificate came from all sides, from various clubs not only from the home club of the European People's Party, which has widely supported its candidacy, but also from other groups, which also gives power to its future function. It should be pointed out here that this is our greatest diplomatic success in candidates for international institutions but also a confirmation of Croatia's strong foreign policy position today. - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Pejcinović Buric thus became the second woman in the history of the organisation and the first person in general from Central and Southeast Europe on the post. For the first time, a person from Croatia is headed by a prominent international organisation in this case by a leading organisation for democratisation and human rights founded 70 years ago, gathering 47 European states. Among other things, it should be said that Croatia has done a good job of choosing and has also made a good impression over 6 months. The chairmanship of the organisation last year. As the newly elected Secretary-General of the Council of Europe has said itself, the Council of Europe has never been more important and will encourage greater dialogue among Member States in order to achieve the main objectives of the organisation, peace and prosperity of Europe. The duty of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe shall be taken over on 15 October and shall be responsible for the management, strategic planning, the work programme and the budget of the organisation. - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Pejcinović Buric has a huge experience on transition, from the end of the 1980s to the present past all possible institutional positions, experienced the transition of Eastern Europe, and it is certain that the Council of Europe needs someone who has a good sensitivity towards Eastern and Western Europe because there is still a kind of dissociation on this issue today and it could play a very important role in cohesion. The Council of Europe has always been considered one of the most important institutions in Europe, especially today, perhaps than it has ever been. So again congratulations on behalf of the HDZ club Marija Pejcinović Buric, the new Secretary-General of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139047	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139048	We are now going to the tenth debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139049	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues here are my duties to clarify certain things in the Croatian Assembly, since these speakers are placed in most half-truths or structures that do not stand. In fact, the town of Virovitica is not a city case, and it is not the mayor of Ivica Kirin who should be from this pay phone. There are clear facts that clearly speak about what happened in the town of Virovitica, a clear message left by the deceased that he was responsible for the work he did and one message in his desk, as well as the other in the car that conveys the news at the Virovitica Information Centre. Today, talking about how Kirin wants to put himself in the role of an intruder in the investigation is really brazen and rude, and it's a structure that doesn't stand either. Namely, the necessity and duty of the mayor was, as he did, to report the act when he found out about him. He found out about him by asking the bank's business manager what happens at the handball club. And that's when it all started, that's when it was seen how sophisticated things were happening, how money was being transferred, how the reports were actually getting dark so it wouldn't be visible. But all of this in the course of the investigation is about the fact that the investigative authorities who had to bring certain things out to the public so that there would be no delusion, should have said what was left behind the deceased and what he wrote, then things would be crystal clear. Today, when we talk about it, responsibility, responsibility exists for both banks and the CNB and the law we have passed on to prevent money laundering because of terrorism as well as criminal acts, and it clearly states who has to be responsible and who has to monitor the course and flow of money. The session called by the mayor, i.e. The President of the City Council, Ms Lahorka Weiss, is in order to allow the hiring of a law firm to compensate for the damage suffered by the banking sector. It's the only goal that wants the mayor and no pressures or any other, of course the state audit will do its own, not Kirin's audit. We believe that you understand what we're talking about, that it's clear what happened and that it's recognised by the signature of the deceased and that it should stop. Politicalisation and political pressures on the bodies of persecution are also not a good act for anyone. All that you are doing today in the Croatian Parliament as individuals I believe it will not help remove the real truth about yourself, and it is that MOST crashed. You can't hide it with any attacks on anyone, any individual, any institution, especially HDZ and its officials, you're not the one who can do anything anymore, your time is passing a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139050	We're going to the last debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139051	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. He would look back at his exposure to several expressed thoughts of his colleagues during this morning's presentation. First of all, on-call moralists in this House are trying HDZ, this Government and Prime Minister defamation to do political damage, but I want to say right away that it will not succeed, so I would ask the issue of on-call morality where your moral standards were, while you were a minister and when your wife's company owed a huge amount to the state budget for years, HZZO and you insisted that this was not the case, and only when your mandate stopped, according to the legal procedure conducted by HZZO, that debt was charged but 2.5 million kuna, and you know very well, the rest of the debt to the Croatian state, the Croatian Institute on the name of the tight interest. Then why didn't you speak so sovereignly from this pay phone about the need, the establishment of moral standards, the care of the state's interests, why didn't you resign as a sign of responsibility yourself, as an act of responsibility? That's when you kept your mouth shut, you disputed that debt. Or when Mr. Petrov here holds the tireads here and without a problem he silenced him and then Mr. Grmoja preserved him and defended him as if it were his fault to make his godfather deputy director of Croatian Waters,... Croatian waters? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, when an attack, when spoken, is slandered, then the ash is sometimes to be poured, one should have the same approach rather than Satanize someone rather than go through his sins as if they had never happened. Did Mr Kuščević resign, whether the prime minister accepted this resignation 5 days ago, 7 days later, does not play an absolute role, it is important that HDZ establish high standards of conduct in Croatian politics and we have proved this and we prove it from day to day, while reminding him of the difference between many officials, I do not know whether one minister in the Government of Zoran Milanovic acted duty without being caught in conflict of interest, one minister, I do not know whether one minister, if one minister, if he was one or two, is sorry, here we are talking about the remains of Minister Kustević, and there is not a single judicial procedure against him or in which he has been declared a suspect. Nevertheless, the awareness that the further work of Minister Kustevic would pose a burden on the government of A. Plenkovic, as a responsible man, resigns from the presidency and we will continue to act until the end of the term of office. We want to, I will repeat, we want to set standards in the Croatian policy but we will not allow those who do not have the moral right to attack HDZ, attack our officials, here from this pay phone to share our moral pucks. It will be accepted by gentlemen, we will not, more so than it comes to those who would have had much to say when it comes to high duties in the executive authority of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we will continue to do as we do. To do the right thing, they also show the fact that economic indicators in Croatia are never better, no government has been able to make such economic shifts as this government does, and the data that gives independent, independent financial institutions, and to those who slandered HDZ this morning give the best answer to Croatian voters, Mr Mrsic, a coalition of 20 parties received 30,000 votes in Croatia and that there were no 20,000 IDS votes from the Amsterdam coalition would receive 30,000 votes, if it wasn't a reminder, then I don't know what it is to you, and also to colleagues. I also speak from MOST [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that the result in these elections has shown them [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] That they must go in which direction. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u139052	We came to the end of the free speech debate
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140104	This ended with the presentation of the club's position and before respected representatives and MPs before we begin today's work, I invite you to pay tribute to 12 Croatian directors who were killed today in 1991, massacred in the village of Borovo. ... Honorable representatives and representatives, in accordance with Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 247. [[One minute of silence.]] I propose to the Rules of Procedure that we conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 625, and - Final draft law amending the Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 626. Do you agree with this proposal? Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140105	I don't think it's about so many related laws and that we should discuss it separately.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140106	They're both tied to the State Inspectorate, and we can vote if you're not up to it, if you think we should, we can vote on it. Please, who's in favor of having a united discussion? 16. Thank you. Who's against it? 3 There are no abstentions, therefore, I conclude that we have voted to conduct a united debate after all. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable secretary of state at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140107	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, which is before you, since the Law on State Inspectorate, energy inspection, environmental and nature protection, construction and spatial planning, pressure equipment and market inspections are united and set up in the State Inspectorate, therefore the need to amend the provisions of the law prescribed by the inspectors responsible for carrying out inspection. This law prescribes that inspection of the enforcement of laws and regulations adopted on the basis of that law shall be carried out each of them in their own parts of the energy inspection, market inspection, environmental protection and nature protection inspection, pressure inspection and construction inspection by the central authority responsible for inspection tasks and inspection by the central authority of the State Administration responsible for finance in accordance with the powers laid down in this law and specific regulations and in order to comply with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, NN No. 115/18. It is certainly not necessary for the application of this law to provide additional financial resources in the state budget. We have asked for an emergency procedure because we believe that the particular reason for the adoption of this law is to ensure the proper, effective and effective functioning of the state administration in the administrative areas which the State Inspectorate has taken over for individual central authorities of the state administration and by precise regulation of the jurisdiction of inspections established in the State Inspectorate in the conduct of inspection oversight of law enforcement. The second law amending the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons is also an inspection of the application of this law and is prescribed under the law to carry out an oil and mining inspection of the Ministry of Energy, the inspection of the central authority of the State Administration responsible for finance and other inspections in accordance with the law and other regulations governing the operation of inspections while administrative oversight of the application of laws and regulations is carried out by the Ministry of Energy. Given that, in accordance with the Law on the State Inspectorate, in particular inspection of the competence of the oil and mining inspection of the Ministry of Energy, the State Inspectorate is to be taken over as of 1 April, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. In accordance with Article 204 of the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure in order to comply with the State Inspectorate Act in order to carry out inspection tasks uninterruptedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140108	Thank you very much. Now, as soon as you said the first word, there were already a few replicas, now they've accumulated a little bit more and we'll go in a row. The first responds to the honourable representative of the Bunjac, please. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140109	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am interested in Christmas 2016 the Prime Minister announced the sale of 1/4 HEP to buy half of INA and said that this sale will be realised within 12 months so I'm curious about how the matter with that plan is now, as long as you've come to terms with the realization. I wonder if you gave up, why did you give up because if we might have made that transaction, we might have saved the refinery, maybe the fuel prices would have been lower, maybe the wages to the workers at the gas stations would have been more, so here, I wonder how it gave up that important plan for the Republic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140110	The next replica is the respected representative of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140111	Dear Secretary of State, here's what we're talking about is energy and hydrocarbon exploitation, and I'm interested in your attitude and information on wind power plants. Thus, at the annual wind power plant level in Croatia and by the moss are owned by foreign companies, earning a billion and a half kuna. They give local self - administrations about 15 million kunas, about a pound per kW. I'm interested in your view on whether it's a fair business for Croatia, is Croatia because in Croatian air, in Croatian country and Croatian citizens, electricity is being sold, whether it makes money in this business and whether this is good for Croatia or not? And why is the constant setting of solars on private houses, or why is this not stimulated, which would be much better for Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140112	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140113	Dear Representative Zekanovic, first of all, all these questions have nothing to do with these laws today, but here, since you have asked, I will answer. As far as the wind power plants you're talking about are Croatian wind power plants, Croatian companies that are in line with the country's positive regulations work and operate and they don't earn a billion and a half, but they have revenues of a billion and a half and how much they earn, that's the question of getting the rest. As regards the price paid to Croatian units of local self-government, it is a valid and common practice that not only wind power plants but also our hydropower, gas thermals and all other power plants in the Republic, according to positive regulations, at the delivered megawatt of electricity, pay compensation to the local self-government unit and there is no reason for any exception there, all power plants in Croatia from the least in one shot, to this largest paying 100 units [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140114	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140115	Thank you, dear Vice President. I don't think there's any need in front of the club or any discussion, just to point out the position of the HNS Club, and once again, since this is already not knowing which package of changes with the same purpose, so the unification of inspectorates or all the inspections so far into one body. And I just want to repeat here, if that means more prevention, less repression, if that means more effective, less burden for our entrepreneurs and all economic, or business entities, then we absolutely support it. In fact, I only have one question about the implementation part, since we know that the new law has entered into force and that everything is united on April 1st, today, if I am not mistaken on May 2nd, how is this law going to be, by emergency procedure, is it already incorporated and is there perhaps some kind of misunderstanding about functioning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140116	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140117	Thank you, Mr. Representative. This time since the first was covered by the transitional and final provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, so there is no reason to worry that there is by chance any.../incomprehensible/... It's all working.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140118	The next replica is the respected representative Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm curious about the situation for the biogas plant. Namely, the law was passed last year, the regulation too. Did we bring quotas for premiums, and did we even adopt quota criteria? We have advocated that such quotas are given to farmers who produce 60% of the plant’s fertilisers and materials in their own holdings, and we know that all over the world these quotas are actually given as hidden subsidies to domestic farmers, so I wonder if those quotas and whether those quotas will be related to the State aid programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140120	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140121	Thank you. It is true that we are at the stage of making these decisions and sublegal acts that will define quotas and you are on a good track, when it comes to quotas that will define biogas and biomass plants, we will absolutely respect the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and we have already had several meetings on this subject. We expect feedback from them in order to get their inputs so that we can put all this together into decisions in order for this whole job to be as effective as possible for the state, not only in energy terms but also in general economic terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140122	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Bunjac has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140123	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, he's hurt. 238. So the representative wasn't talking about the State Inspectorate but about the subsidies to farmers, but at the same time the secretary of state answered him, until he wanted to answer me the same question regarding HEP. So here we have obviously secretaries who match similar MPs, and those who aren't likable don't respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140124	Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what you're aware of, and you abused that institution, and I'm asking you not to do it anymore. I'm not going to give you a warning right now, but in the future, I'm going to give you notices about such things, and I agree with you, and I hope that the MPs have even read the laws that we are now discussing, and it seems to me that some of them are not, I'm getting that impression, so let's really discuss the scale of these laws, or the amendment of those laws, and not everything that comes to mind, and in that sense I agree absolutely with you. The next replica is the respected representative of Lovrinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140125	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State. On January 10th, there was a major hydropower plant in Dubrovnik, and we are now discussing the meaning of a new law relating to inspection services in this regard. Please answer the question to the public why after 110 days we don't know what the real cause is down there, the fires where three workers died. The daily HEP loses 2 million kunas because the hydropower plant is not working, so by now it's already lost 220 million kuna. Third, why do you not accept the well-intentioned offers of our partners in the European family, e.g. The French to help, have experience to resuscitate it, so why do you propose this new law when you see, nothing works, the same people, you think in the second package it'll work better?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140126	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140127	As for the report on the events that were in Plato, it is clear that it is not the work of the ministry or government, it is the competent independent authorities in the Republic of Croatia who are dealing with it will give and there you must ask that question. As regards politics in terms of loss and not loss of HEP, it would also ask you to address HEP directly as HEP is a company owned by Croatia, but as a society functions independently, so I have nothing else to say to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140128	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140129	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. In your presentation, you said that these two laws were passed by emergency procedure to comply with the State Inspectorate Act and that public administration would be effective and transparent. And if we want a really effective and transparent public administration, then we need to get the law in sync in time. Today is May 2nd, and the State Inspectorate is scheduled to start working on April 1st. Why is it that a month late, why didn't you bring these laws in line, like other ministries, in line with other laws in time before April 1st? And how you do it effectively and efficiently is also evidence because the HSS Club referred to the procedure of amending the Exploitation Regulation or the fees paid to local self-government units for the exploitation of hydrocarbons on 15 April of last year, and now it is May 2nd and it is only today that it comes to the agenda. Why is he late and why You haven't changed your mind because you're doing damage to the municipalities, you're not. [[Intruder: Thank you]] increased the fee as an income to the municipalities. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140130	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140131	Thank you, dear representative Vlaovic, for the possible delay, such as the Honorable colleague Curaj already mentioned it, we are no later in terms of the functioning of the State Inspectorate, so all the power inspectors are of 1.4 of the State Inspectorate and function as part of the State Inspectorate because it is covered by the transitional and final provisions of the Inspectorate Act, and now it is dealt with by the basic law, so that's what this is about. And as for your remarks on the compensation for the exploitation of hydrocarbons or the compensation of municipalities, it's not true that we're late, that regulation works, it exists, it has its own regulation, it's your idea to change the percentages, clearly it's a subject that can be discussed, but it's primarily a topic in the government, not in HS, but clearly your right to ask that And it is our right to answer you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140132	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140133	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, of course these two laws contain one amendment that we can say is more technical, which is that the inspection tasks are taken over by the State Inspectorate, crossing from the ministry to the State Inspectorate. But what we also need to say is very important laws on which we can say that there are certainly problems that need to be discussed. First of all, if we are talking about the law, the Law is about the electricity market, so we should ask how the electricity market works in the Republic of Croatia, and especially in the light of the implementation of the implementation of the renewable energy system where we see that there have been a number of malversions and what is even more important, a number of projects that should be entered into the system are still standing, yet speculantly not resolved. What is crucial in fact that how will the supervision of any institution, in this case, the State Inspectorate, if the Croatian Government proposes changes to the electricity market? We had such a case where under the force of the law it was actually expelled that all produced quantities must be accepted even though the system transfer operator himself has clearly said we will have technical problems and we are experiencing technical problems and these technical problems are not only technical problems, but are also economical, they are also jeopardising technical facilities that need to ensure stability, and on the other hand are jeopardising our users who have to pay imposed duties. What will one inspector, an entrepreneur who has been responsible for all the events that have been done, have paid for the renewables and is paying a bigger bill? He should say, Inspector, did he market anything you did or was it a political decision? And it is very difficult in these conditions to say that the State Inspectorate will do much more than, in fact, what is expected from what is expected is minimally, discover which problems cause problems in the system and warn, in this case what I have stated specifically, the inspection should say, don't politicians make decisions that will be problematic, if they're problematic in the distribution system, and what if the inspection didn't respond to what is then her job, whether we have so-called. Inspectors who just need to show up when we have a handout with human victims, as the above example was a colleague, and then we'll say inspections, all say, in fact, they call for inspections to do their job, they'll come to conclusions, and based on these conclusions we'll determine responsibility, but we see months passing, in fact, what the inspection had to do, it wasn't done, it wasn't even done by the state's attorney's office in that case that we have clear indications of guilt in the whole system, primarily of the markets that are going on. The second law calls, refers to the exploitation of hydrocarbons and if you listen primarily to the leaders of local self-government that receive certain benefits, which they warn, that there has been a change in quantity, that there has been a rise, a certain price rise for drawback, but at the same time a miracle has happened that the quantities have disappeared and everything is fine. So it's absolutely accepted that everything's fine and that's such a sequence that's normal. However, as long as the drawback prices were lower, we had one quantity, as soon as they increased the fees, suddenly decreased, would we have such a situation in the future? What did the inspectorate say about that? Is the inspectorate should also be proactive, he should watch what is stated, primarily in the media and if you have a number of local leaders who even had an organised meeting to discuss the problem, gave an inspection report, provided that there are certain behaviours that are beyond what was stated by the law. Therefore, and what has been the obligation of the state so far, actually inspections within the Ministry and now remains a challenge within the State Inspectorate, the challenge is primarily that they do not have the opportunity, the space to carry out inspection surveillance in that full scope and to be a service that protects all participants in these markets and in the electricity market, as well as in the procedures, the exploitation processes, the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation. I hope that these changes that have taken place, that the State Inspectorate will carry out inspection controls and not more resolutional ministries will contribute to the improvement. And this, although it's a small change looking at comprehensively but surely it has the opportunity to become very important in the future system of both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140134	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Totgergeli will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140135	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So there are two laws before us that we really need to comply with these two laws with the State Inspectorate Act. And because the State Inspectorate Act is already in force, of course, that the HDZ Club will support both laws. When we talk about the Electricity Market Act, we passed this law, the latest changes last year, so in 2018 somewhere in the middle. It is a law governing rules and measures for safe and reliable production, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity and for electricity trade and the organisation of the electricity market as part of the EU electricity market. Furthermore, rules relating to the protection of final customers, the organisation and functioning of the electricity sector, open access to the market, the determination of the obligations of general services and the rights of consumers of electricity, including the rights of final customers, separate management of business books, financial reports, network access rules, principles of reciprocity and cross-border transmission of electricity are laid down. However, every time we have a debate on any law that touches the electricity sector, then we always have some contradictory thesis. On the one hand, I have a feeling that in some ways we're all trying to make as much electricity as possible from renewable energy sources and on the other hand we'd like the compensation we have to pay to encourage the production of renewables to be as small as possible or that we want it to actually be gone. However, it is obviously impossible to connect these two requirements. The fact is that it is still technologically priced by the plant for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources is such that it is not cost-effective to build and exploit such plants in their lifetime that the price they achieve, which is achieved on the electricity market, is one that can be achieved from other sources of energy. Now, of course it's a political decision whether we want to encourage renewable energy sources or not. We've made a political decision that we want to encourage renewable energy sources, in which way we encourage them, we encourage them from through the compensation we collect. And I always feel like some colleagues either don't want to understand or deliberately distort it and accuse it when compensation has to be raised and accused if we don't have enough renewable energy. So that's one contradiction that we meet here all the time in all the discussions we have as soon as any changes to the laws relating to the electricity sector occur. Of course, the electricity market is open and, of course, suppliers buy energy on the market and also offer it to customers on the market as favourable as possible. But if we want to encourage production from renewable sources then we have to have this fee that we collect and we have to define the rules by which those who want to invest in renewable electricity generation plants will pay off, and so if we do it systematically and well and we have passed legal solutions in recent times that we encourage, so we can expect to have more plants to produce electricity from renewable sources. On the other hand, there has been a lot of changes to these recent changes in the Electricity Market Act, which also concerned one greater independence given both to the CAPS and HERA, and I think these solutions are good. And given how many MPs voted for amendments to these laws, it is evident that in fact most MPs support those changes that were, so I assume that they will support only these technical changes that are now in order. As regards this other law relating to the exploitation of hydrocarbons, it is therefore a law governing the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, research and exploitation of geothermal waters from which accumulated heat can be used for energy purposes, storage of natural gas and the permanent disposal of carbon dioxide in which hydrocarbons, geothermal waters or geological structures for storage and permanent disposal are located in the country or underground of internal seawater or the territorial seas of the Republic of Croatia, or in the underground of the continental Adriatic Sea Belt to the line of demarcation with neighbouring countries where, in accordance with international law, jurisdiction and sovereign rights are exercised. When we last changed that law and it was somewhere at the end of last year, the most changes were to enable a unique process from public competition, through discovery to the identification of exploitation fields, the development of fields, the production of hydrocarbons, and ultimately the recovery and all in accordance with industrial, or international practice. So we created one frame from before it was in some 3, 4 laws all complicated, now we created one frame, so that it could seriously go into hydrocarbon exploration and expansion. However, here when we talk about this legal solution, then we all know all about hydrocarbons, but it seems to me that precisely for the future, that there are very important geothermal sources and that Croatia as a country has great potential precisely in geothermal sources and that we need to rely more and more on the expansion of these sources, because this is one of the forms where we can achieve great benefits, in production and electricity, these are renewable energy sources. However, in order to invest in these facilities, it is also necessary to start, because they are still technologically too expensive to pay for themselves in a short time, therefore, it is also necessary to develop an incentive system here and help build such facilities. At this very moment we have one such facility, which is almost 10 megawatts that gives into the system, therefore, and in that area we're on our way and I think we should continue there. And this is exactly the legal solution that we made last year, and in that field, it allows for more cost-effectiveness. So once again for the end, of course it is necessary to comply with these two laws, with the State Inspectorate Act, and therefore we fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140136	Thank you very much. The next is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representatives, in the name of which will be spoken by the Honorable Representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140137	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, once again we are in a series of these legal proposals here in the assembly we are discussing and a little bit, I would not say that I feel confused, but rather it is a little bit of a rule that we are discussing something, let's say, almost and without purpose. In fact, in all these legal proposals, I am as abstentioned as my colleagues from the club, because I believe that the government can form a state or administration in the way it thinks it's most effective. With that in mind, and that's what I said and when we talked about the State Inspectorate Act, so if the government thinks it's the best way to function, then it should be dealt with much faster. Such discussions should be on the parliamentary committees, the committees responsible, and then they would not occupy the area of the debate itself at the plenary session. In this regard, the State Secretary is right, when warning colleagues and colleagues, as many of the things we ask, cross the frameworks of the law itself or these amendments to which they apply, of course, these laws are in line with the Inspectorate Act, where inspection services from certain ministries are now transferred to the State Inspectorate. But let me just say a few things for a second. Why it is important that inspection services, regardless of whether they are in charge of the ministries, are in the State Inspectorate extremely important. From 2008 to 2017, we have an increase in the number of entrepreneurs in this sector, production, transmission and distribution of electricity of 675.3%, almost 7 times the number of entrepreneurs in this area. But at the same time, the number of employees dropped by 13.3%. The analysis of the business of the entrepreneurs in the production activities was carried out by FINA, transmission and distribution of electricity during the period from... By 2017, it showed a significant increase in the number of entrepreneurs and subsequent growth in financial items, while the number of entrepreneurs increased multiplely, from 89 to 680 in 2017. The number of employees was in 2017 11669 or was lower than in 2008 when it was 13465th largest impact, of course this reduction, had a change in the number of employees in HEP distribution system operator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2008, 9 000 271 employees, and in 2017. 7 thousand 370 are only talking about HEP operator distribution systems. A large number of companies established during the observed period are either unemployed or with a small number of employees. For example, in 2017 of 690 companies, without employees there were 456. So I will repeat again... without employees 456, and 159 had one or two employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why does it matter? This is important from the following data, the total income of 10 years, increased by 21.1 billion kuna in 2008. We are talking about income, EUR 27,5 billion, as recorded in 2017. That is, the growth of revenue of €6.4 billion. It also increased total expenditures from 20.8 billion to 25 billion kuna. During the entire observed period, a positive financial result was achieved, which with 215.5 million kuna profits from 2008. In 2017, the increase in watch over 2.1 billion kuna. An increase of almost nine times. During the entire observed period, the trade balance was negative because imports in each of the observed years were higher than exports. Of course there are a number of factors why that is. Average monthly net salary in 2008. It was 6 thousand 386 kuna, and in 2017 7 thousand 801 kuna, if you compare salary growth with profit growth, then you see a huge disproportionateness in that activity. So here the growth of profits has grown 9 times and the growth of wages is only 22% or 1/5. For comparison, the average monthly net salary and employees of entrepreneurs at the level of the Republic of Croatia in the observed period increased by less than 18.2%. What I would just point out from this data is therefore the biggest profit these companies have achieved in 2015 when it amounted to 3 billion kuna, 2017 it is 2 billion and 113 million kuna. My colleagues and colleagues used to talk about it being a large part, and at least I think so, the increase in this number of business entities is also due to the liberalisation of the market, as well as the subsidisation of renewable energy sources. And we really don't have that much space if we want to have energy from renewable energy, that energy is more expensive and must be subsidized, but there are always objections to the transparency of this process to what is agreed, there have been cases where contracts are signed the night before tariff cuts. There have been complaints that this is done practically in the last seconds, there have been occasions that some are privileged to access information. And these things aren't good because we see that this is about big money, big profits, and that's why I think inspection services have to work, they have to do their job. What's still to be mentioned here, and that's when we talk about the pressure vessels' inspections, I believe the inspectors and the pressure vessels will do their job, it's an extremely important segment. We see that we've been having accidents lately, not all connected to pressure vessels, one of these accidents is related to it. It's something to pay attention to for people's health. But what we need to pay attention to, is not only the problem with these entrepreneurs who have, earn large profits, large revenues, the problem with all craftsmen, all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because I am the process of checking these tanks that are now liberalised because the truth is done even from pressure equipment agencies, it has grown into a pressure-based company that generates significant revenues and should see if there is room for the release of entrepreneurs, but inspections of course must not give in and do their job. Here's to conclude, this kind of legal proposal, I'm going to be restrained again because I don't know, I don't think that, I'm sorry not to waste time, but these things should, it's probably a debate in the future, maybe for the work of the Parliament to discuss these things on committees because if it's passed, 1.4, it's already been done by the state inspectorate and now, forgive us as if we're discussing last year's snow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140138	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, a respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140139	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't really plan to answer, but I would ask you all right now not to raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and the article is 238, 232, as far as the agenda theme is concerned, my colleague, Sagar, has talked about both the subject and something else, but this initiative in this direction is clearly going in this direction that clearly the subject itself is not a particular subject of discussion and that we are wandering in these discussions and I would like to stick to what is the meaning of this law. So today we are discussing the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market, and this Article 71, where the law stipulates that inspection control of law enforcement is carried out by competent inspectors, etc., so we are talking about uniting inspections, what has already taken effect on April 1st, is also the same thing as the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons, the inspection supervision and I think that, as long as someone seems insignificant or only technically, it is necessary to concentrate on that technical part. If you go to the hearing in front of the boards, I'd just like to know who's going to decide. If most people, if most people decide, then they'll say they want something out of the public eye, to hide something. There is no correct answer that would give what is going to be discussed at the plenary session and what remains on the boards. We can change the Rules of Procedure I say, but it might be wiser if we all stuck to the agenda points and talked about what was the subject of the law, no matter how short and essential, simple and for other points and for free speech, we left all the other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140140	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate that was first reported by the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The topic of today's debate is to amend the law on the electricity market and in particular the segment of inspection supervision where the proposer says that it should adapt means everything with the establishment of a new state inspectorate because so far inspection services have been scattered as cancer children, are now under one cap and there has come to yesterday's head of state inspection united, our colleague came here yesterday's parliamentary representative, Col. Mikulić. So we see as we turn into an inspection, so now everything is in one place and a politician is coming to the head of the service. See, that's how it goes in Croatia. And that's why we in the party change Croatia we fight and constantly point to citizens to the elections because you see that this system cannot be changed for the better. Why? Because there are those sickly corrupt links between politics and the economy and the judiciary that are better put in place. Nothing can change in Croatia until we push out or cut drastic corruption and political clientism the second and third intricacies. So look when we're talking about the electricity market, so it's become like hunting grounds, reserved hunting grounds for certain parties, let's say look at the Croatian People's Party HNS, it's a party manager, they're better than HDZ, they're better than HDZ because they're looking for managerial sites, environmental protection, energy, etc. Well, you remember their president, who was still president, when he was here, telling HDZ that this is the Titanic government, attacked here, now he's nowhere, he's obviously doing his business and business for the party. Because it is so dear to you citizens, when MPs, therefore, ministers, politicians, when they see politics as simple to achieve their business plans. That is why this rich country, our dear Croatia, came to those low branches that we are on. And I as a university professor, therefore, not only as a politician from economy, finance, I can't explain to my colleagues from abroad, how they say we are a rich country, natural resources and I can't explain to them how our Croatia and our citizens are so poor, poor, and we practically have such potentials. So now it's clear to all of us, so I repeat, corruption, political clientele and intricacies, that as a metastases, metastases spread to Croatia. And until we strike like Alexander the Great with a sword, we stop that proud knot, we can't change anything. But believe me, you know that the solution to this problem is very simple, you don't have to kill around here. I now ask the citizens when they ask me, as professors or advocates, so tell them how it should be done in Croatia, what needs to be done to change, so economically, this. I'm not talking about the economy anymore, because I realized, after a year, two, there's no need to talk a lot about the economy. We economists, we know, who have not participated so far in the government, we know and talk constantly about how you can... However, I'm just sending them one message, which one? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People go to the polls, because those who rule for 20 years and change with each other, and they ruined us, so they live on, because you don't get out that 45% of Croatian citizens don't go to elections. Dear citizens, you can't expect us here, not as far as you can see in the House, that we overpower this voting machine and that we change the laws, if you, 45%, don't go to elections. And you've been told and told all the time, you know what they're saying? Let go of that policy, it's broken, all those politicians are the same. The other thing, which means your voice, the individual doesn't mean anything in the election, so you better stay home, go have a barbecue, or watch TV. You won't believe that there are people who are paid, who in restaurants, bars, bars, they're just spreading through materials, villages of this kind of persuasion, and the citizens are demoting that they don't go to elections. But dear citizens, the moment you finally decide and say we won't actually vote for those who lead us, and all of you who don't go out, unfortunately, you won't make any mistakes. It's not your revenge if you don't come out, you're actually voting twice, for those who have so far led us and ruined us. Now let me go back to this topic, and everything is connected means political clienteliasm and that is why the only cure, to solve this impossible situation in Croatia, is that we all go to elections, dear citizens, all of us. I'm not gonna invite you to vote for this and that. Well, I know these 45% who don't go out, and when they do, they certainly won't vote for the parties that have led Croatia for the past 20 years. And then we will literally get rid of the political scene, as a political plough, with what simply leads Croatia to ruin. Now let's go back to the topic, because you know that the party we change Croatia, even though I represent it here, we don't tell hollow stories. Here's an argument, if this law provides for a united control of inspections, so please tell me, which will be the difference between the inspection, which has so far monitored the security, mode of management, functioning, pressure plants in hydropower plants and these now united state inspections, which has the same task. On January 10th, there was a severe carnage, a fire at the Dubrovnik hydropower plant, indeed unfortunately, 3 workers died and you see, it's been almost 110 days since this hydropower plant doesn't work. First we didn't find out, the exact cause of the fire and the haiarium. Secondly, we don't know who's responsible for this, you see. It is the typical Croatian political discipline, let it pass month after month and people simply won't, will forget what happened. Why? Because there's probably someone out there, he's probably responsible, but it belongs to this party or that party, you know, if you push him, then we're going to raise your voice here, we're not going to destabilise the ruling majority. Now, you see, that's the serious disease that Croatia is in. So I demand to change Croatia in front of the party, tell the citizens, who is responsible for the haemarium, hydroelectric power plants in Dubrovnik? Secondly, you gentlemen from HEP, you lose 2 million kuna every day, because the hydropower plant doesn't work. So far, the loss is 220 million kuna. If it continues, if by the end of the year, the hydropower plant is not operational, which is very certain, the end of the year, HEP could be welcomed with around 720, 30 million kunas of lower income, because the Dubrovnik hydropower plant does not produce electricity. I repeat, our friends from the EU, e.g. The French, they offered for free, to help because they have experience in how to put Dubrovnik hydropower plant into operation. No one even to know, there's no answer. So what does the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection do? The DORH has reportedly some claim of responsibility who's to blame for it but the typical answer is that they won't say anything until the case is over and then it's been withdrawn for months until it falls into oblivion. So, we're constantly going round and round about the same thing, so I invite you fellow citizens, let's cut this out already, this one nakarada policy, one political scene, let's get all those people out of politics, whether in HS, government, ministries, who came out of their own personal interests, recognize people who really advocate their integrity, knowledge, for one different Republic. There's only one way, he's very simple, and I'll keep saying it, let's all go to elections, let's go out that day, half an hour, why? So simply this is the only way to end them in this, in this sense just to point out, to conclude, the Republic of Croatia is energy-hazarded and this united State Inspectorate will solve nothing, it is more likely that it will only protect structures, parties and people from certain political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140142	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lovrinović, you said that a politician is coming to the head of the State Inspectorate and that is, that is, true and now in a normal European country any country would not be allowed to politicise such an institution as the State Inspectorate. However, the Republic of Croatia is an exception in this matter, but by ruling and this government is neither hiding nor obstructing it. So, when Mr. Mikulic was appointed chief state inspector, then Minister Horvatt's media asked, do you think the ministers now have the politicisation of an institution that should be fully politicalally independent. You know what he said? Well, yeah, well, what the state's problem is, the chief state inspector has, from now on, he's going to have the office of officials, so that's what politicizing this body is. So these are things that are not normal and that's how this government behaves, according to the system as Prime Minister Plenkovic said in this House of Highs, they can do whatever I want and they do, and the damages pay the most to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140144	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140145	Dear counterpart Djujic, it is true that the prime minister said we can and we will do whatever we want, and those of us who point to the citizens of this political clientism, he calls us politicians, that's what you saw. So, there's been this level of haughtiness, why is that haughtiness? Because obviously everyone is calmed down, you know as a glue keeps it together, all those people who are different, meaning that they're acting that way, they didn't take it as a homeland, but as an asset, and that's the only thing that connects them, you know, and the moment they lose power, HDZ will literally fall apart, what by all the seams, we'll just see that. But just to say one more thing, you see, HEP has cut the net, and it's going to lose 300 million kuna a year, 220 million will lose HEP because the Dubrovnik hydropower plant doesn't work, nobody cares about it because they want to weaken HEP and finally privatize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140146	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140147	Thank you, Vice President. Dear professors, therefore, in order to control law enforcement in the Republic of Croatia, a police officer must not jump out of the bushes, the inspector must not participate in masquerade, so to disguise himself, then go to shops, by cafes, in that sense, uniting the inspectorate in one place does not mean anything. If there is no clear plan in which all inspections are carried out, how every inspector has an annual plan, how he does it, people need to know it, people don't need to be scared, people need to know that they're under constant control, but the control they know about, so if there's also a sign in the settlement that there's a speed control, you know that if there's an announcement that the inspector is going to go into control, then you need to pay attention if things can't be hidden overnight just like that, so, to move away, to respect the profession, move the policy, it's necessary to have clear inspection plans, clear plans then that this country becomes a regulated state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140148	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140149	Dear colleague Sagar, you see, I completely agree here, so that's the problem, so a politician can't be the head of the State Inspector. You know who's gonna be afraid of this situation right now? All those who are not members of HDZ and HNS. So it's going to be extra pressure, people join these parties, and that's that way of ruling in the Republic, everyone else, so, you know, you're worried, you know, if this bush is going to jump this inspection, if it's gonna come to 10 inspections. The inspections have become a powerful instrument of pressure to expand membership, to intimidate people, not to speak, etc. etc. When the Party changes Croatia which is a young and growing party and gathers experts, when we take part of the responsibility in the future government, the first measure we will take, abolish, no one will be from politics to the head of state inspector and many, everyone will be in a public tender They're all going to a public competition. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140150	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so what I want to say is that this government led by the HDZ has no energy strategy, no plan regarding the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia and is doing nothing, and what my claims prove is that since 1.4 this year, it has accumulated gas for all our citizens, that this collection was happening at the time when the heating season ended, so that people don't even notice it, but it will notice it eventually only in the autumn, that since 1.4 this year it has collected electricity for electricity distributors, which will chainly lead to electricity collection and for our citizens by the end of the year, every week we are witnessing that it collects fuel at our pumps, and if we know that 50% of the country takes in liters through various pressures, and does nothing, then we see in what way this government is going to do. And we today when we are discussing these laws instead of discussing the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, these problems of how to make energy available to citizens in the country, how to collect gas, how to collect electricity, how not to impose new taxes, what we are discussing today. We are discussing these very important two laws in which one article is amended, and the reason for this change is the unification of the state inspectorate, i.e. we are dealing exclusively with the staffing within HDZ in the settlement of functions where they consider the state according to the Croatian system=HDZ, HDZ=Plenkovic, i.e. the state itself. And for the internal trade of peace buying in calculations within the HDZ, they put state institutions in that position. When the State Inspectorate Act so-called Lex Mikulić, we have warned here that this law is working for one man when all the criteria that the future chief state inspector should retain have been thrown out of that law and when in the description of what this future state inspector should look like to see Mr Mikulić's face deleted then the government told us to politicize, to talk nonsense, but after 2, 3 weeks, it was precisely seen that what we warned that it was true. And basically the only thing this government is dealing with is humanizing, is by taking over institutions that are supposed to be independent in this country, putting their hands on and under the hands of the party, but they're also doing it sloppyly. So the unification of the state inspectorate in the Republic of Croatia was to be done at 1.4 this year, according to the State Inspectorate Act. Today it is 2.5. we are just harmonising the other laws with that law, which means that it is not working and it is not ready and it is an indication that this government refers to everything and in fact that the only intrinsic of this law on this unification is whether Mr. Mikulić sits on the post as soon as possible and that the HDZ takes control of the State Inspectorate. Because if it hadn't been for that, then that whole process would have been carried out properly. Then we would adopt this law, or these laws would comply with the Inspectorate Act before the State Inspectorate Act enters into force. So we have since 1.4, a single state inspectorate and today we're just harmonising these two laws so that they can function. What happened since 1.4? Nothing. Mr. Mikulic has become the chief state inspector, has all the power in the state, are not appointed regional heads of state units within the state inspectorate, have no resources, have no offices, have no headquarters, the only thing they have is the seal. So they took over the seal and took over the function. And that's it, that's what you've just done. So today we're passing two laws, tomorrow we'll bring the other two and then until these appointments start. By the end of the year, a single state inspectorate may be functioning, but Mr. Mikulić has been in office since 1.4, so he enjoys blessing his functions. In no normal European country, such an institution that should be completely independent of politics and deprived of any political influence would be politicised as in Croatia. And they don't hide it by ruling. So I repeat once again, when Minister Horvat media asked whether the appointment of Mr Mikulic at the head of the State Inspectorate was a kind of politicisation of this body he said that, what is the problem? Mr. Chief State Inspector becomes an official and therefore this is a politicized function. Now I ask you when an inspector should check the business of an entrepreneur in Croatia who, for example, Perhaps a minister was given Mercedes whether he would check properly or would a colleague of the minister, a Croatian state official, direct him not to check him the way he should check? Now these are the things the HDZ wants, he wanted to take control of the State Inspectorate and that's what we see. We see a number of functions in the country where officials are selected by a public tender, the bosses are elected by a public competition and then by order by HDZ officials. We have, it's never been this kind of politicization, it's always the HDZ pushing its members one way or the other, but it's never been done like this. Never. That the chief state inspector is still the president of the HDZ, the city of Zagreb, that HTZ is the director of HDZ city councilor in the city of Rijeka, that he is the director of HZZO, the president of the HDZ of Rijeka, and that was never like this. So HDZ grabs and puts its paws on every institution in the state that should be independent. Here's the man who left here, became the executive secretary of the Croatian Football Federation, so it's not hiding at all, but in HDZ competitions who will grab a better function, it's now a competition, it's there now sport. These are the characteristics of countries like Zimbabwe, such as Bangladesh, some such democratic countries, but unfortunately Croatia belongs to that society. I am sorry that HDZ does not lead Croatia to some standards such as Western European countries that are supposed to be our role model, here comes Mrs Merkel in Croatia why we do not operate under the German system. No, we have to here, my colleague Lovrinović said that Croatia's HDZ considers Croatia not as a country but as an asset, I very much like that wing because that's who's going to grab more, who's going to get a better position who's going to have a better function. So these are things that aren't normal, these are things that aren't good and that's what we from the SDP are going to warn about. And we're dealing with staff issues here, calculations within the HDZ, to calm this current or that current instead of watching citizens have cheaper gas, how they're going to have cheaper electricity, how they're going to have cheaper gasoline, how they're going to live better, how they're going to raise citizens' standards. But no, that HDZ and this government aren't interested, they're interested in positions, they're interested in functions. And as far as it rots there, it also shows what the HDZ list for these euro elections is like, where total anonymouss are on which Plenkovic also shows that he can do whatever he wants in HDZ. Now, that's not good for the country and it's not good for Croatia. And that's why we in the SDP are still going to fight it and there's still hope. And these Euro elections when with their result will show, however, I think that the opposition is holding more support among citizens than the entire HDZ with this no-name list, so that we will continue to talk about these problems and these things and this is the topic today, I would be happier to talk about Croatia's energy strategy, energy independence but no, we are talking in these two united laws exclusively about functions, exclusively about positions and the settlement of prey within the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140152	We have three replicas on your exhibit, first mate Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140153	Thank you very much. Col. Djijic, the real question is what you just asked, and that is to use public money and also the recent collection of electricity in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to spend non-transparently and in favour of one party, in this case the HDZ that is in power. Please tell me, what do you think about Minister Pavić spending public money from the state budget, regulations, giving commercials on TV and radio to scare people from signing a referendum on pension reform? That's what HDZ does, spends public money to scare people, so their money scares them. I call them out of here again, it's not just a pension reform, it's against this incompetent government, and it should finally be said and people need to show it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140154	Well, just like my colleague Maras, there's not only Minister Pavić who uses taxpayers' money to scare them and to deceive them with their money, there's a whole series of HDZ officials who explain to us that pension reform is great, how great it is to work until 67, how great it is that pension is 2500 kn, how it is to live very well in Croatia with that little pension, how it is fine with such salaries, here are colleagues Ressler, fellow Sokol, Mrs. Sokol. The ham that is now visiting the random construction site, here it happens to be in Istria, meeting with the prime minister, just passing by, so she accidentally saw a project and then she says here I happen to be here today, I didn't happen to know the state resources there, and then she explains to us people here super-lived, this is great, so normal, so let's just say that, they don't see how the citizens live but there's still this pride and insolence that convinces the citizens that they don't see well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140155	Thank you. The next replica is my colleague, Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140156	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Djujic, you have pointed out very well now that we are actually discussing a series of laws already so far, and now and after April 1st, in fact, the laws concerning the State Inspectorate. What's important here, what you've pointed out, we're just going to see if this united inspectorate is actually going to fulfill its role, but what we're going to see is that in fact, the media and some journalists are already doing their job very well and what our police are doing right now, our police say, determines the identity of very well-known journalists such as the Gjurjice Klancir case, and the question is whether this inspectorate is going to solve what the journalist Gjurdje Klancir is warning about, here today I'm reading specifically in the case of the ministry, let's say the agriculture when Minister Tolusic's father-in-law is actually deeply involved... [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140157	Thank you, answer, answer, colleague, thank you, please time to respect everyone, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140158	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, that's exactly right, ma'am. Alphyrev, it's going to be worse, it's going to be worse than it's ever been before. So we had two weeks ago. Here's a debate on the Law on the Police New, which will name the police chiefs, so after these changes if it goes by, HDZ will name similar officers of police administrations and police stations and will be irrevocable and now I'm asking you, what will these commissioners do, how will they implement politics? I'm afraid not. The klancir will be the only case that's happened, it'll become a rule. So HDZ mayors, officials will drink coffee with the chiefs of police administrations and there will negotiate whose identity will need to be established or will not be established and these are things again that suggest that HDZ assumes all the institutions of this country or tries to take over and put them into office of its own party and that is what we must resist, that is what we must talk about every day in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140159	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140160	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Djujic, if they really analyzed many of the 90s elections here, then, given the funding, a large part of them would be funded with generous and public money, then they would declare most of them invalid, irregular because they were taking advantage of those who had public resources either through the ministry, either through local authorities. We in the republic have one problem that we respect laws only when it suits us so here you see, you know if you know about the decision that HERA has made to continue HEP, that the supplier is on the wholesale gas market where he buys gas at a more expensive price, sells it at a cheaper price, it ruins all market principles but it has to be so as to maintain a certain social peace, in order to put certain things under the carpet right now, and when he culminates, we don't know, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140161	Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140162	You tell your colleague, Žagar, that many campaigns are funded by public money, so not many, I know, the 2007 campaign was funded by stolen money from Croatian citizens through the Fimi Media. It is a campaign that today is being tried by HDZ in front of Croatian courts as the only party convicted of corruption politically. And not only that, but all of this money that was stolen from Croatian public companies and Croatian citizens won the elections in 2007 and then spent 4 years in a devastating policy for Croatian citizens, on stolen money. So no one has asked that question so far, we are looking at the Croatian judiciary which is none, which has already been tried in this case for 10 years, we have no judgment, because of procedural mistakes are repeated trials, but what we are looking at, we watch every day testifying that money from Croatian companies was being presented and that certain HDZ officials were being given, many who are sitting here today among us, and today... They have nothing to do with that story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140163	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next one is a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please, a colleague of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140164	Dear Secretary of State Milatić, you just told me not to talk about the subject, but the topic is electricity, the topic is hydrocarbons, the subject is inspection. So speaking of any of these topics, I think we're all in the dark. But I must warn you that you were being dishonest a moment ago, not to say you were telling the truth. When I warned myself that only in the lip is paid by local self-government, for the exploitation, or the production of electricity, by wind power plants, which I will repeat, one billion and a half kuna a year, and give local self-government only 15 million kuna a year. You said that others pay, pay both hydropower plants and thermal power plants, but you didn't say that these have a preferential price of lime, and that these have a much higher price, which is not privileged. And when I told you they were foreigners, I have nothing against foreign investment, but Croatian citizens must know that these companies you called Croatian companies are not owned by Croatian companies. He is under Croatian law, established d.d., d.o.o. j.d.o. Whatever it is, the owner is German, French, Slovenian or whoever he is and you know it very well. As you can open a company in Austria, today an Austrian can open a company in Croatia and all those wind plants or a large majority, yet not to say wrong, they are not unfortunately, in Croatian ownership and it is not good and it is bad. Because the huge profit, the huge profit and the preferential tariffs and production and the expansion, I will repeat in the Croatian country, from Croatian air and sales to Croatian citizens, do not stay in Croatia, but go outside Croatia and that is bad, that is bad. And then, as a modernity, I will always say that the interest of the Croatian state, that tomorrow, ultimately and the state firm HEP, which you are just controlling with your party of HNS, because you are a member of the HNS, there you are delegated by the HNS, regardless of what the HNS controller is, I would like HEP as a Croatian company to be still an investor and such facilities, not that we lightly give foreigners our important resources and allow them to make money here, I will say uncontrollably and let go slowly, surely, step by step, one important segment of Croatian modernity of our hands. I also have to notice here when we're talking about hydrocarbons, a few years ago, back in '15, '16, '14. There was an explosion of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. So then Milanovic was the chief advocate of it, and who was helping him? So your party president. Then, if I'm not mistaken, the Minister of Economy Mr. Vrdoljak, and what was funny at the time, behold, our gentleman, our colleague Bacic, was attacking him, spoke against it. So I'm curious, now a little attitude, as Mr. Vrdoljak and HDZ, counterpart Bačić, agreed on, about the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, given that recently only three years ago they were quite largely noted. One was an advocate for researching exploitation, the other was an opponent. And to explain a little to them, if, as a matter of fact, that HDZ's position on not declaring an economic belt, i.e. a protected economic belt, how this can now be seen in the context of hydrocarbon exploitation. Are we in favour of an expansion, or is it now the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since Vrdoljak is a proponent of it or is he against, if that is HDZ's position or, or so on, and how to compose it in relation to the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not to declare an economic belt? It's a bit of a schizophrenic thing to do, but here's the deal. I'd like to know what's going on. And as for the inspection, we first put the agencies together, we say, we'll save, nobody said no job was lost, that the number of employees in the agencies was the same, on the same salaries or higher, and then, here, we discussed the Law that we no longer have assistants, or that they're no longer government officials, or that they're in the category of civil servants. We said we'd have savings, there's no savings, because they're on the same salary, there's an equal number, with more tomorrow, if the government changes, no one will be able to replace them, because they've become employees. And now we're talking about the merger of inspections, and we're late, of course, as with everything and now the passing of these laws, and nobody's saying there's no rationalization here either, that we just have another roof body, another function, another director, with their secretaries, who's going to coordinate everything that already exists. So today, in fact, regardless of what is very nice in public, and what many, unfortunately, fall for, instead of saving, we have added cost. Either we have people who will be permanently in love, no matter how they work, on high wages, or we'll have a situation, you can warn a little, Mr. Maras, I know that my colleague is a party but I can't hear you. I can't hear myself. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please, please, please, you are right, please just a little quieter. Thank you.]] So here I also have to mention, it's fantastic actually how many things are paid by state money, I'm going to say two examples of marketing, a lot of advertising, as well as HEP, even though it's on the market, and then your Minister of the Wildlife of the Ministry of Education, pays millions of kuna to promote, you called it a curricular reform, otherwise the reform is a curricula. And then finally we have since recently and millions of kunas invested in the advert of a law, the Pension System Act, to allow for a referendum that currently exists. So I'm curious as to why we didn't have this law on hydrocarbon inspection, hydrocarbon implantation, and about electricity advertised on television. Why don't the HRT play a commercial every day about any law, and I'm curious about what kind of criterion the government of the Republic of Croatia actually decides when to put a couple, five, six, ten million kuna into some kind of TV video, some kind of a commercial, and then advertise it on TV. Or is it only when a referendum is to be prevented, disabled or simply when HRT lacks money or when the ministry has extra money? Here's what I'm curious about, so I'd like to know if, uh, a nice commercial could be recorded on this bill, for example. Inspecting that amending the Law on Inspection, on the exploitation of hydrocarbons, that would be a very nice commercial, I think it would be popular, and that HRT and other televisions could charge it well, and besides, state television, why wouldn't it help? So I'll do it again. Unfortunately, we have our country which is becoming less and less sovereign because of the sale of strategic branches of industry, in this case energy and at privileged prices, which is not good, and what is important to stress, all of this now controls both the HEP and the exploitation of hydrocarbons, the Croatian People's Party, the HNS with Mr. Vrdoljak and with you as the Secretary of State that you are helping him because you are delegated by his party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140165	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit. This is a colleague of Ivan Kirin's. Here you go, colleague Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140166	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleague Zekanovic, in your presentation I felt great concern for Croatian citizens. You mentioned renewable energy choices, carbohydrates, research on the Adriatic, and it was constantly running in your display of prices to how much the citizens cost. Please, on but I didn't notice that you were specific about it. Let's say, car registration for derivatives and registration of gas cars, why is an additional imposition being paid? Why didn't you ask that question? Why don't you fight for it specifically because it costs citizens more than electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140167	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140168	Dear colleague Kirin, here, I am pleased that you as part of the ruling coalition have seen that there is also injustice in Croatian society. Here he is, actually fellow Kirin, as part of the ruling coalition, asking you, why all those who drive on gas have worse conditions, and the gas, as far as I know, is a greener energy. So here's a question you asked, so I would even advise you to condition with your hand the government of Andrej Plenkovic let the gas finally become even compared to other hydrocarbons used on oil, on gasoline and other derivatives. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140169	We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Gordan Maras, here's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I initially have to protest here on behalf of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the vast majority of the Republic of Croatia against this parliamentary one, I don't know what to say, situations, madness, where we've been discussing for months because of a man of one party, the law of law has been coming to the HDZ, or to arrest a man in the State Inspectorate, and instead of talking about the electricity being collected a month ago, instead of talking about the gas gathering very quickly and gathering from day to day. Be careful, in Croatia, a liter of gasoline will be over 11 kuna very soon. That's not what HDZ's talking about. The HDZ does not care about both the ministry and the secretary of state, they do not say that people simply have problems paying their basic needs. £11 for the price of a liter of gasoline. No, it doesn't matter, but it is important that Mr. Mikulić from HDZ sits in his chair and gets every inspection under him. And then you'd think, so he'd start working early in the morning and try to make it easier for those on the market, but no, he's going from early morning to the EU election campaign. So we're paying him, and the man's in the Senate at 9:00 with his list. Imagine that paradox. And that's HDZ normal. Derivations of people to naked skin, electricity more expensive, gasoline more expensive, conditions in Croatia getting worse and worse, they are not interested, and on the other hand, to set up the business of Mr Mikulić and HDZ, absolutely for this they are the first. And here I am asking the question of the energy ministry gentlemen, when measures will be taken to reduce the price of carbon means gasoline, diesels and other energy products that our citizens are widely using. When are you gonna do that? When? Prices are wild, we expect it to be over 11 kuna very soon, when will we see these measures? Or the HDZ is quite enough to fill the VAT budget, fill the excise budget and essentially the HDZ wants the prices to be as much as possible. On the other hand, what we see every day isn't just about entanglement in the State Inspectorate, which is why these two laws are changing. We're seeing one amazing thing right now, which is that HDZ doesn't go over in the middle of an EU election campaign, spends public money to scare citizens with an imaginary 40, 45 billion kuna of some cost that no one knows at all how they got to that calculation and finally, where they got that figure. They turned out to be clear, and every day we listen on the radio, on TV, our money, Croatian citizens' money, they defend the possibility of holding a referendum in the Republic of Croatia, because they know that this referendum is essentially a referendum against HDZ and Mikulic, who signed there, it is against HDZ and Mikulic. These people are motivated to change this government, that this government is not doing this badly, that their pensions, electricity, gasoline, that they are being talked about, that we are taking care of them, not whether Mikulić and HDZ will be employed and whether they will have 500 inspectors or 1500 inspectors. It is a problem that in Croatia, the priorities that this government has, simply no one else is experiencing except them, their stakeholders, who around them and people should be motivated to simply resist it. If we don't want more gas, if we don't want more expensive electricity, if we want people to have a better standard, not Mikulić and HDZ people, but the people of the Republic of Croatia, then we also have to give strong support and a referendum for 67, then we have to strongly show people and go to these elections that will be in a month or less than a month because that's where it's going to be shown, whether we want to have a price of gasoline over 11 kn, whether we want to pay more electricity, whether we want HDZ to continue to catch the casao that it's ensuing so far. And do we want that prisoner policy, which is practiced by Andrej Plenkovic and his team. And on the other hand, of course it's all being run in HDZ about it. How in what way will he take care of as many of his men as possible? As sir, the Chief Inspector will have as much of his status as possible. So you see how a man performed, he broke into a building where millions and millions of kunas fell into, so that they could settle so that he could have his grand court there and open a place for Mr. Prgomet in the City of Zagreb, so that a man could become president of the congregation. And that's why, here, that's where people come in, sit down, this is 20 times already, 20 times. Well, we could call the law lex Mikulić specialis and discuss it once, and not 20 times we talk about Mikulić, instead of electricity, about gasoline, about energy, about what will happen with LNG, and why HDZ insists on floating LNG in Krk where we question ecology and everything that goes along with what interests are behind it, that HDZ pushes it, regardless of what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not want? Which is why we don't have about the hydrocarbons' fairer distribution, that more excise duty stays in the Republic of Croatia, then, that, for the exploitation of higher excise duty, those who took over the INA, Hungary, which is why we don't do it, so that our local units can have more money for their own needs, Podravina, Bjelovarska bilogorska County, and all those municipalities where it's exploited, very much of our raw materials, which is why we don't talk about it here? Which is why we are not talking about electricity and how it was collected a few weeks ago and how Croatian citizens will even endure the wave of inflation that is coming to us. Believe me, these prices, these prices of hydrocarbons, i.e. these prices, gasoline, diesels, which jump from day to day, will reflect on farmers and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen, all who have small jobs, who will then have to raise the price. On the other hand, it will be devastatingly reflected on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as it will spend 10 or 15 percent more of its budget, for example transport than they have done so far. Well, maybe it doesn't seem to someone else, but it certainly doesn't seem to be a lot to their HDZ colleagues if they say they spent 500, 600, 700 kn, and then they spent another 100 kn. It is not a problem of course to colleagues from HDZ but it is a colleague and fellow skin-drawing to our fellow citizens and that is why we have to stand up to it and that is why we have to say that there is enough yelling of people's skin in the Republic of Croatia, that there is a lot more cost and inflation in people in the Republic of Croatia and that we simply have to watch how to help them. We finally have to say, he can't, he can't to HDZ, he's only got his priorities and he's not looking beyond that at all. He doesn't even see if people can handle those costs. It does not see demographically that people stay in Croatia, wages are not raised. Yesterday was an international festival of work, which I once again congratulate to all who celebrated it, but HDZ is not looking at how to raise wages in the Republic of Croatia, so focus is essentially us, in the SDP, that those of us who are fighting for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is that the wages are up, that the costs and this is all that I just said to the Constitution and that in some way we are not discussing the HDZ and its entrenchedness, but that our citizens will live better tomorrow. And that's why I call on people once again, come out, sign for a referendum, stop the devasting of the Republic of Croatia, directed by the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140171	Thank you. At your exhibition we have 4 replicas, a colleague of Zekanovic, a colleague of Djujic, a colleague of Greece, a colleague of Vlaovic. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140172	So it's important to point out here we're talking about electricity, and it's important to point out that electricity has never been more expensive. When we talk about hydrocarbons, i.e., about oil and gasoline that were never more expensive, that the price today is 10 kn, even in a few periods passed 10 kn and I will only mention one thing that we forgot about 20 years ago, the price and diesel fuel and gasoline was about 3.5 kn, and then the salary of an educational worker was about 4000 kn. Today the salary is 5000 kn of educational staff and the price of gasoline is 10 kn. And that's what I'm trying to figure out, 300 percent, and that's what nobody's talking about, and that's what they have to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140173	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140174	So I think it's a fact that everyone sees it when they come to the gas stations today, that the price of gasoline has increased dramatically and that everyone is saying that it's going to be more than 11 kn because of these movements on the market and everything that's going on globally, Venezuela, America, Arab countries. So the only question is why the government is not responding, which is why Minister Maric is silent, killing excises, yelling at the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to the naked skin, I'm going to say it one more time, yelling at them naked and which is why HDZ doesn't say or why we don't all say it here together. Why are we keeping our mouths shut? Why is there a gentleman from HDZ who won't speak one word today about how much gas he's collected in the Republic of Croatia? So we finally have to react, here we ask the Ministry's representative to tell me when the government will intervene, the price of gasoline is increasing and higher every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140175	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you mentioned that HDZ and this government are spending our resources and our money to advertise their failed decisions towards Croatian citizens and you mentioned it in the spirit of this pension reform. Not only do they spend it but I am concerned about the statements made by Minister Pavic, who mentions that if this referendum does not go away, that the state will save 40 billion kuna on our pensioners, so these are disturbing messages, as Minister Pavic and this government sees our pensioners as a cost, and that they praise that they will save 40 billion, and not only that, they are praised for being praised by the European Commission, it praises them. So, what do we need? We need representatives who will not be able to at the expense of Croatian citizens, who will tell Tajani not who will justify the actions of Tajani who will accept everything that comes from Brussels and who will also boast about how they are carrying out their instructions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140177	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140178	It is a shame to waste public resources to go directly against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a shame how public money is spent to scare the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I invite you once again everyone who is home now, come out and sign the union's referendum initiative because it's a wider, wider story. The injustice in Croatian society must finally stop. Minister Pavic spends millions of kuna on public money ads to scare the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's the highlight of what the government shouldn't be doing and instead of answering these questions today how much he spent, I wonder what he'll say at the press conference at 1 o'clock about it. That's what I'm interested in. Come out and sign. I think it's time for HDZ to be told enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140179	Thank you. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I must mention one thing that may have missed the public. In the latest report by Moody's, which the government strongly calls for, it is precisely a confirmation that in the coming period they want to save huge money when it comes to paying pensions, pension payments. So it literally stands there and praises the government because it is heading towards reducing the total share of pensions in GDP by 3.5% over the next 30 years. This would mean that the current 10% of pensions should fall to 6.5% of GDP. I really don't know what the bill is and which at the same time can ensure decent life and decent pensions and they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140181	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140182	It is clear to all in the Republic of Croatia and to those who are watching us now and most of all are pensioners or unemployed who are now at home, when they hear Mr Sokola from HDZ who is very likely a future Europarliamentary regardless of how many votes he has received, to say that in Croatia pensions are excellent. That's what the man said dead-cold on the current clock. He says pensions are great. I call upon all those who think that pensions are excellent in the Republic of Croatia to give their voice to Mr. Falcon. I'm advertising it, I'm asking people to vote for Falcon, all those who think that Croatian pensions are excellent. That's why I'm telling you what the HDZ cynicism is, people come out and resist it, say it can't, tell HDZ it can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140183	And the last replica of your presentation of colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140184	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said in your debate that the establishment of the State Inspectorate is not a real reform, and here we had an example that by the government's decision 20 agencies or state bodies were abolished and no savings were made, but these same people mainly took over the jobs of the people of the ministry and it was only the cost of changing the seals, the signboards and the rest. We hope that it will not be with both the State Inspectorate and these two laws in question, that they will finally stop running small craftsmen and entrepreneurs, the OPG and that large companies will operate in accordance with the law. That's because the government didn't want to change the decision to exploit hydrocarbons from 10% to 12% and the same MOL pays in Hungary between 15% and 28%, depending on the region where it's being exploited and we asked the municipalities to invest in the quality of life in the country but this government doesn't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140185	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140186	I absolutely support it, so the initiative you gave, I signed it myself, I was in Podravina yesterday, here I promised to mention it, in Novigrad Podravsk, one book beautiful about famous people from that area, among which Ivan Knight Trnski, people do not have enough means to encourage the development of their community, of their own, to preserve their culture, it is amazing how much enthusiasm is approached by individuals and they should be thanked, here Mrs. Katarini Franjo, who is trying there and is trying to maintain something Croatia has, but we cannot encourage enough because unfortunately, these excise duties and this richness that is being drawn from Croatia, we are not returning to local units but rather benefiting from it are Hungarians, INA and Government of the Republic of Croatia, but units local self-government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140187	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Branko Bačić, here's your colleague, Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I support the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market and the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which are amended in order to enable the business to be carried out by the State Inspectorate. Otherwise, I support the establishment of the State Inspectorate, because in one place the 17 inspections that have so far been scattered within 8 different ministries, so that the work of the inspection itself is effective, united, and that entrepreneurs who at the time of the SDP government claim that the inspection works on principle every week, inspector one. So here you will now coordinate inspections because of what happens in one body and that will in any case lead to the effectiveness of inspections, to cost reductions, on the other hand. On the third hand, one place will be to coordinate the work of inspections so that there are no different interpretations of regulations, different competences of individual ministries when it comes to inspection. Now I agree with my colleagues from the SDP, we have been discussing these laws for a long time, and in the function of establishing the State Inspectorate, but we are discussing this for the reason that we were also committed five years ago, it seems to me that for even longer now we have been discussing the decommissioning of the State Inspectorate, that our colleagues from the SDP then did not go into the demonstration of the inspectorates, and we were then, I was then a parliamentary, opposition parliamentary representative for months to discuss these laws, would not today be in a position to return to this more normal, more meaningful organisation of state administration where there is one, one state body responsible for the functioning of the inspection in Croatia. So, I absolutely, absolutely welcome that. It is said that this is where the inspectorate is being appointed and set up to enable the employment of a HDZ officer who will now manage the inspections as if, at a time when these inspections were in the formation of the ministries of these inspections, they were also not responsible for politically colored officials who were ministers of the SDP at the time, therefore, when it comes to party colour, when it comes to the formation of inspectorates because of the needs of a political party, it can then be our response in a way that it is possible for eight ministers from that government to have an inspectorate in their composition, and in a certain way that inspector, or that inspection, is more incomplete. In fact, the question can be asked when the one who adopts laws and implements it, and the one who oversees it all in the same place, that it all comes down to that saying when I sue you, when I judge you, hence, here when one body manages and controls all the tasks in the jurisdiction of the inspection, then it oversees all those other state bodies, local self-government, entrepreneurs and such objections in any case do not come into consideration. I heard here a lot of debates during the morning and replicas about the price of electricity, about the price of gas, about the price of energy in Croatia. I would first say that tax reform reduced VAT to energy from 25% to 13%, and above that, there was a significant drop in energy prices. Comrade Maras claims that the fuel price will soon come to 11 kuna. It is now, if I am not mistaken, about 10,50 or 56, 60 kn, so the price of Eurosuper, and forgets, for example, that at a time when he was the minister, this magical border he mentioned several times today from 11 kuna was crossed and that the price of fuel in 2014 was Maras, when you were minister of 11 kuna and 14 limes. How do you forget that, I don't get it? That in fact you, your Government, were the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, that you led to the liberalisation of fuel prices in Croatia that must be harmonised with the price of wholesale prices on the Mediterranean market and today is absolutely treated, it is almost simple to reconcile prices in retail with the price of the wholesale market. This is what your government brought, and I say, in your time, we have already recorded record fuel prices of 10 kn and 14 June, for example in 2014, 10 kn 80 lipa was in 2013 long, almost all year, so now that price is still significantly below 70 lipa, below that record price that was during when you were minister. So when we talk about fuel prices, then, let's just look at how that price has been moving for many years, and then we can talk about today's fuel price. It's expensive, I agree it's expensive, but the price-setting model you've established when we talk about fuel based on oil fuel prices, primarily on the Mediterranean market. My colleague Zekanovic, he left, but I still had a intention to say a few words about it. It is true that I was in front of HDZ one of those who opposed the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, in that sense I wrote then I was the Interpol on the work of the government and the role of the government in this process and today I am absolutely standing in the same settings. Why was I against it? I was against the fact that this procedure was done illegally, it was unlawfully done for the reason that according to the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia it was possible to explore and exploit hydrocarbons but not in the territorial sea, it was a fundamental thing that I advocated setting a platform 6 km from the island or 10 km from the coast is unacceptable and that it was done without an appropriate strategic environmental impact study. I've never been against hydrocarbon research, but I am against oil exploitation in the Adriatic. Namely, common sense in all of us who follow the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons suggests that for many years Croatia and Italy have been faithfully exploring and then exploiting the gas but I have spoken and rebelled, I have been against the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the southern part of the Adriatic where the depths are 700, 800 and 1000 m, certain fields of South Dubrovnik have been at the depths of over 1000 m. I have said 100 times that the most demanding, technologically complicated process, the industrial process in the world is the exploitation of oil below 700, 800 m and that it can happen to the haemarium that would irrevocably destroy the eastern coast of the Adriatic Sea and we know what this coast means for the development of tourism in Croatia, then I am left with this government not to go further with the research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons, even though I am aware of the fact that it is relevant to the field research in which is located in the area where it is located, i. i. e. i. i. i. e. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i It's been ours in HDZ since the first set-up today and we're staying on it today. We therefore commend the government's view to approach, in a different way, the research of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, more so that the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction is responsible for the development of a state spatial development plan which provides for a strategic study and an environmental impact assessment where the answer would then be given and for everything I've talked about. In any case, I was saying it for a reason that we planned a number of exploitation fields directly along the external Croatian islands, 6 km from the island or 10 km from the coast and that was then unacceptable and therefore I was against, so all I wrote then is absolutely and now I and the HDZ club remain in the same settings. So, Mr. Vice President, I personally support these two laws, I think they're good, that they allow for more effective work of state inspection, its unification and most of the unification in the approach of carrying out inspections, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140189	Thank you, too. We have 5 replicas on your exhibit, the first colleague Maras, and after him, Col. Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140190	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, it would have been nice if you'd replicated me, but now that you've referred to me, I'm going to have two basic questions. Is it normal for you to talk about Mikulic, HDZ and the Chief Inspector to create a place for him here, most of all in this assembly? So we haven't discussed any other problem more than Andrija Mikulic and HDZ's chief state inspector, that's the first. And secondly, to be absolutely accurate, the average price of energy and diesel in Croatia in 2015 was €9.49 for petrol and €8.73 for diesel, at this point and approximately 15% higher price and diesel and gasoline compared to 2015. So, please do not deceive Croatian citizens, spend an average of hundreds, 150 kn more at this time than they spent in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140191	Thank you, colleague Maras, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, we are not discussing Mikulic, but we are discussing the establishment of the State Inspectorate and I say that you did not disassemble him, we would not discuss this at all, we would do other things that we do anyway. A number of other topics have been here in the Croatian Parliament since pension reform, tax reform, reform around Agrokor system, saving 60,000 jobs, 150 000 people who have worked companies related to Agrokor, we have discussed road construction, we have discussed numerous projects, EU funds, so on all that, about agricultural laws, about everything that is our fellow citizens' lives. As far as fuel prices are concerned, yes, you mentioned 2015, it is precisely saying that in 2015 the price of fuel dropped, that is because the wholesale price on the Mediterranean market has decreased, now it is growing again, not only there but in the whole world the price of oil is rising and this is actually due to these increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140193	Thanks, buddy. The next replica of counterpart Djujic, followed by counterpart Panenic, a counterpart of Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140194	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you said that you supported the unification of the State Inspectorate and in your own words because it would lead to more efficiency and expeditionivity. Now I'm wondering if you think the Inspectorate is effective by taking effect on the State Inspectorate Act 1.4, and today, a month after that, we're just discussing the laws that need to be passed so that it can function? So the inspectorate isn't working today, that I'm not saying that the heads of the department below are not yet appointed, only Mr. Mikulić was appointed, and you know what's very signifying to me? It is clear to me that while you were talking about the ex-government disassembled this State Inspectorate, Mr. Milatić has made a significant nod and confirmed it, and it was he who was sitting in that government that demonized that inspectorate in your words, and then Mr. Vrdoljak was also signically noding how this should be demonstrated. So these are all things which shows that basically you're doing it just to be [[Intruder: Thank you]] Inches [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]] HDZ [[Intruder: Answer...]] On your own duty. [[/Intruder: Here's the answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140195	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140196	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Djujic, for many years, the inspectorate worked, and I could never figure out why you were disassembling it, which was not clear to me at all what the reasons were, what were the criteria, which was what you were leading to when you started to demonstrate the State Inspectorate. I say, for the reason that a united inspection in one place costs less, which is consistent, which there is no overlapping inspection, which does not have that winged "cadiya and sues, cadija and judges" because the minister himself does not determine the conduct of his own inspectors who oversee almost what he does, which he does, monitors his work, but does it by some other independent state body. In that is the difference between what I advocate and what I welcome and what you say, and I agree, time will pass, it will be necessary to adopt the Internal Design Regulation, organise the area units, etc. etc. And it will take some time until the inspectorate is established, but when it is established it will be. effective... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140197	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Panenic, followed by counterpart Vlaovic. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140198	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bačić, in the part of the exhibition where you mentioned that the government, where you are in fact supporting the government, has reduced VAT to compensate for the rise in electricity prices. However, what is constantly forgotten, we speak only in part, we only talk about natural persons, about citizens, for entrepreneurship they have increased the price if VAT is a transient neutral item, growth, compensation for renewable energy sources, they have actually made business conditions difficult. We need to talk about it, not only to watch it citizens, those who only raise their voice, but also to watch those who need to create jobs for these citizens, are they then going to be the best promoters of any government. In this way we have the collection of electricity for them, now the market here the gas is growing, the energy rises, when under the conditions of energy growth accumulates then production and decreases competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140199	Thank you. Here's my colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Panenic, you did not listen to me very carefully, so I said that there was no collection of energy, that the reduction of VAT rates resulted in the cost of electricity for the citizens, which is very important and not the price of the purchase, the collection that led to the effect of those entrepreneurs who had guaranteed the price of electricity that the contract had expired, which were now due to the renewal of the contracts and because of the increase in wholesale prices around 6.9% came into effect, as well as the collection of electricity prices themselves. Therefore, I was very precise, I say that as far as electricity is concerned, there was no accumulation, and for other energy sources for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia who had reduced VAT on the cost of energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140201	Thank you. A colleague, Vlaović, followed by his colleague, Šuker. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140202	Thank you... My colleague Bačić, I am glad that you mentioned fuel prices and I agree with you, it is not good for the citizens or for the economy that the prices of fuel are growing and it is not good for the price to be even more than 15.00 kn, not more than 10 or better, the price of fuel should be in the Republic of Croatia the way it is acceptable for both citizens and the economy, so my question is whether the Government will react because there are instruments, the price of fuel is over 60% of the state's income, so it can react and will react because we cannot expect sustainable growth of the economy and employment growth if we do not respond to such disturbances on the market. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll remind you of the milk production disturbance, we'd like to export milk to China, according to the minister, but production fell to about 30% compared to 15 years ago, and let's remember that in 2001, the price of milk was 3.5-4.00 kn and a liter of blue diesel was around 4,00 kn, and what is it today? 1:5, we can't do that. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140203	Here's my colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Vlaović, I said so myself, it is not good that the increase in energy costs, that there is an increase in energy costs, that it is a blow to citizens' pockets, so I would mention you, and I have already said twice that the government has reduced VAT from 25% to 13% for this purpose, which has led to a decrease in energy prices and I agree with you and this increase in fuel prices in the first order, but also other energy sources, there is a disturbance in the energy market. Therefore, this is due to what is happening not only in our country, but not only in the Mediterranean, but worldwide, there is an increase in the prices of certain fuels. Will the government react? She's already reacted once, I say, by reducing VAT. Will she react if she crosses some imaginary border that is considered truly unacceptable, it will be decided by the government, but I want to repeat that she has already reacted once.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140205	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Comrade Shucker, here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140206	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić, 4, 4.5.g. The State Inspectorate is abolished, some 16, 17 inspections are established, at the head of those 16, 17 inspections come after three state inspectors, so that's how SDP and his fellow arrests 50 of its officials, then it wasn't an arrest, then it was like this, and we're drawing a line today and let's say that this new inspection service is effective or not? No, and that's why the State Inspectorate was founded. And as for pensions from 67, 13.12.2013. around 13 hours HDZ is against, SDP is 67, it is the only fact, and this is all else, we can talk today about rising gas and electricity prices 20 and 25% and that it will be an investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia. So we're going to happen in 2012. [[Intruder: Thank you]] that energy investment cycle. [[Intruder: Answer, thank you fellow Shucker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140207	Comrade Bacic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140208	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, if I hadn't thought of it, it's interesting that your observation that instead of one, there were 17 minor inspectors, and then their assistants, that was in any case 10, 15 times more than the chiefs in the inspection, than they're going to be today. When you talk about the increase in fuel prices and what we have already heard, I remember, you remember, in 2012 that the government passed HERA increased electricity prices by 25% and it was based on one decision of HERA 2010 where HERA decided 8% and that was illegal at the time, we all remember very well, and that is why we protested very well, but the government said it was justified to increase the price for 25% of electricity to everyone, both entrepreneurs and households and households, and at that time it was not a blow to our fellow citizens' pockets, it was justified and now when we talk about an increase in price that does not apply to Croatian citizens and households at all, it is a major blow to the standard of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140209	Thank you. And the last individual debate is a debate from fellow Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140210	Thank you, Vice President. So I expected the debate today to be about the energy sector, however, as the debate ends, so it expands a little bit, it is not just about the energy sector anymore, it is about pension reform and European elections, etc., it is being added to each debate, another topic is being added to which we are going to discuss. But we heard here that this government has no energy strategy in some of the discussions. Otherwise, for those who do not remember it, the energy strategy was adopted in 2009 and otherwise the strategy is not adopted for one year but for some longer period of time and the real issue is actually when we adopt a strategy, whether those who should, and those strategies, should adhere to it, and then the question is, in which way, the strategy it adopted in 2009. The HDZ Government then came to the SDP Government there in 2012 through 2015, to the extent that it adhered to the strategy that was in place at that time in the Republic of Croatia. I am 100% sure that this government will make changes to the strategy because after 10 years of a strategy being passed, it is logical to complete that strategy or to set new goals or new directions. In order for this strategy to be well done, it is necessary to record the situation which, see what we have done in those 10 years and then bring our new objectives through the new strategy. We've heard a lot about politicians here. So if someone's an opposition politician, then first of all he's an economist, then he's a professor and then only then a politician, but if he's HDZ, then no matter what he's been up to, what he's ever done in life, turns out that HDZs are just politicians. Every one of us has a career, something he's good at, something he's been dealing with, someone's an energy engineer, someone's an engineer, someone's a professor, and it makes sense that HDZ's colleagues know what they're good at, and so the HDZs know. On the other hand, this same debate would turn out to be a policy for us who, before we came into politics, had to deal with some other business, should not be a policy or a business, but would turn out to be a professional, to immediately become a politician such as Mr Maras, and only such a person should be allowed and able to deal with politics, almost to conclude from the debate of colleagues from the opposition. I would like to say more about hydropower plants and whether we have enough experts in Croatia who know how to run hydropower plants. All over the world, too, those involved in professional work need to make sure that nothing has ever happened in the world, but it is impossible in all the facilities in the world to avoid having to happen, and from time to time, this hasarium happens. The goal is to keep them as low as possible, so that we can learn in the haiaries that they would not repeat themselves again, but to say that some power plant is not working just because it should bring someone from France is totally wrong. In Croatia we have enough experts in HEP as well as in the schools of professors who are involved in energy and who know all about hydropower plants, on the other hand we also have experts who build hydropower plants both around the world and today. Therefore, we can cooperate with the French, but that they must come to us to run some power plant is completely wrong and completely wrong message to our young people. So schooling in our colleges will lead you to know that if you're dealing with energy and electrical engineering, at some point run hydropower plants. We also heard about the power and gas collection. We say with a population of 1.4 he collected gas but we do not want to say which part of the gas he collected, what he collected and what that price of gas was in the past years and what it will be in the next year. So it's a category of gas for the household where the price is consistent with what was happening on the market, and we don't want to say on purpose when we say that it's accumulated the price of gas, that that gas price for citizens will be the same all year round no matter what happens to the price of gas on the market. If the price of gas on the market is growing and surely the season will start to grow, as the hot season will come, the price of gas will start, but our citizens will pay the same price, and we do not want to tell them that. On the other hand, why is that exactly 1.4? Well, just because in the gas business, the gas year starts with 1.4, then contracts are made and that's why it's with that date, and again next year it's going to be a more consistent price if this year the price stays the same or something will fall then it's going to go down next year, if it's going to grow, it's going to have to go back to 1.4 next year. As for electricity, there were a lot of debates about the price of electricity where they were afraid to collect electricity for the public, that they would collect electricity for the distributors. Who are these power distributors in the Republic of Croatia? We only have HEP ODS, HEP Operator of the distribution system, it's the only distributor, however, he doesn't sell electricity, he's just an operator who provides services that electricity can come to the buyer, but he doesn't sell it and his price doesn't change and his price hasn't changed with 1.4 and no purchaser in the household category prices has changed a single lip and our citizens see it in their accounts. On the other hand, entrepreneurs negotiate prices on the market, contract them from suppliers, make contracts all year round because they are more favourable, then they know the full year of calculations in their product as much as their electricity price. If they want to play, and then they do it for a month and they think it'll work better, it's every entrepreneur's business again, which is why we opened the electricity market. However, what has changed has changed the guaranteed price of supply for the economy so that 8% or how many more, either because of sloth or because of the calculation, or for what reason, have not obtained its supplier in order to obtain or contract the price on the market with one of the suppliers and could have done so before 1.4. Therefore, even the price of electricity with 1.4 did not absolutely add up for anyone. And we heard here a debate about the pension system, many said that 67 years old. It's too much, I just want to know why my colleague Maras and colleague Djujic actually introduced these 67 years. While SDP was the government, and counterpart Maras was minister in the same government, why did they go at 67 at that time. if they think it's wrong and wrong now, because the fact that we've been introduced into legal solutions is that we need to work until 67. It wasn't HDZ, it was SDP, here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140211	Thank you. We have one replica on your exhibit, one last moment and another replica. So, we have one replica from fellow Maras and a colleague of Shuker's, here's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140212	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Totgergeli here to explain to us that the addition is essentially called harmony. So you see how he's trying to avoid what's a fact, that 15 to 20% of energy or energy costs more than they cost a few years ago, 15 to 20%, maybe Mr. Totgergeli isn't some kind of money, but to pensioners living at 1.500.00 or 1,000 kn is a huge amount of money. So, please don't make people stupid here because people know very well that prices go up, and on the other hand, as Mr. Shucker said, then HDZ was, not with both hands, but with hands and feet not to go into this story, and today it speeds up retirement to 67. So it's only possible to change your mind , but to insist on a wrong opinion [[Intruder: Thank you]] as HDZ does [[Intruder: Thank you, answer...]] is a disaster [[Intruder:...response response]] I really don't know how [[Agreement: Thank you, thank you fellow Maras]] I'd explain it to you best. [[10, thank you for the reply to the replica.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140213	Thank you. The answer to the replica, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140214	I don't really know what that means, what it means to be a man. I am only normally discussing and trying to explain to our citizens that you deliberately distort the facts, instead of explaining to them that what we did with the gas, is not something that will be long-term because it can eventually go back, that it is a harmonisation, you insist on saying that it is an addition, and what will only happen when we get to 2022 when the gas price for the household goes to market, so when it changes on market terms as it is on the market. So now we're protecting them to keep the price the same all year round, and then we're going to come into a situation that's on the market and how the market forms it so there's going to be a price of gas. So, I have no reason to, what do you say you get in? Because we don't even know what that means. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140215	In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. A 236 colleague, Maras, has done some
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140216	Here's a colleague of Totgergelji's hurt his ankle. In 238, where he warned me that he didn't know what it means to climb in, I guess by suggesting that I don't know enough Croatian, so I'd like to tell him that when he writes up, then he gets the definition, and that means, he's trying too hard, trying all kinds of ways, so Mr. Totgergeli if you didn't know about this verb, here I'm helping you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140217	It's good. Do you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. So, the Rules of Procedure aren't hurt, let's move on, here we go, here we go, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140218	Well, my colleague Maras hurt 238, first he keeps calling me Totgergeli, and I'm actually Totgergeli, I don't believe that he already knows everything on his computer, so he can't find out what his last name is, or that he can't hear his last name spoken, so here I am going to tell him that he's a colleague of Maras, I'm not going to call him otherwise because I think that It's working on purpose. [[Okay, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140219	Now we break up with the replicas, I won't give you a warning, not to you or your colleague Maras, but don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure as one instrument. Comrade Shuker, here you are, the last replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140220	Thank you very much. Comrade Totgergeli, look, sometimes independent bodies are founded to take care of how one who provides services based on the law, how it relates to the one who buys these services. Or if the HERA, which has its budget of 600 and a few million more, someone remembers to put that HERA into the budget, as soon as you push it into the budget, you make a decision on its assets, you basically deny it, then it happens that electricity prices go 25%, gas prices 20%, all under cover that HEP is going to be some big investor, I don't know what HEP invested for that 25%? Today we have a situation like we do and instead of talking about the situation on the energy market, and it's very interesting that no one mentions the liberalisation of research where oil and gas could possibly be drawn, what about it, there's a lot of money being invested, someone's been very boasting about it by one government, you know maybe... What's up with that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140221	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140222	Comrade Shuker, you spoke first of all about the time since 2012-2015, so it's clear what you meant. Today HERA is independent, no longer pushed where you said it was pushed, so it has its own budget and has become much more independent than it was before. We've agreed to make it more independent than the ministries and at this point we have the assumption that agencies can do their jobs independently, and through these two legal solutions and through the State Inspectorate Act, we've also achieved that the inspectorate is independent of the ministries and that it has a perspective that it can work better because we've had a lot of cases when one ministry, the other ministry, the third ministry sends the inspectors to the economics and then these businessmen have been under surveillance for weeks at a time instead of bringing it together. And that the inspectorate is working with one [[Intruder: Thank you.]] places without overlapping. [[Intruder: Comrade Miro, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140223	Thank you. That's what ended the individual debates. Now we have before on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club final, and that's colleague Gordan Maras, here's your colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, at the end of this debate, just to sum up certain views and what we mentioned in the debate. Of course, the Club of Representatives of the SDP cannot support such changes that go to the shortcut, for the benefit of one person, for the benefit of a Mr. who was to be placed in the position of the Chief State Inspector, it is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that we here are discussing and have spent probably 40, 50 hours of debate over whether Mikulić and what Mikulić will have the authority in the State Inspectorate. As far as people are concerned, about how to prevent an increase in energy prices, electricity, gasoline, diesel, hydrocarbons, so that's something that matters to people on a daily basis. There is no debate here at all, and no initiative by the rulings has been given to this. And then the question is, is this Parliament and the ruling majority actually enough for itself? Whether people are totally irrelevant to them and whether they care to place one of their HDZ persons in that place, or to allow them to be replaced by the city HDZ and the president of the City Assembly, in fact, that the whole state is subordinated to them. And then they mention certain things incorrect. Prices of gasoline and diesels that were in 2015, watch this, 15% lower than they are today. So then the pension reforms are mentioned, here's fellow Schucker talking about the vote, although he was the first against it at the time, and today with two hands he speeds up leaving early, or leaving, raising 2 years of retirement, completely different from what was then, so five more years ago he wants our fellow citizens to retire. Of course, those who want to work and can work on certain jobs, it's normal, it should be like that. But how will a teacher, teachers work, how will those who have a very difficult physical job work, and how will eventually receive a pension. And when we talk about five years, so five years of acceleration is a hell of a lot. It's about three hundred thousand of our fellow citizens who are now covered by the previous law were not covered. And on the other hand, here, it's something that's almost incomprehensible to everyone who's following what's going on on the political scene. And once again we call on these speakers, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ to deal with many problems that escalate into the Republic of Croatia. From rising prices to growing intolerance in society, to problems in education which we have to the biggest problem, which is the departure of people from the Republic of Croatia, I no longer speak only to young people, but to the departure of all generations of people from the Republic of Croatia, a working-age population, who rarely leave in the 50s. For what? Because salaries in the Republic of Croatia do not monitor salaries in other countries in our environment and the most important demographic measure today in the Republic of Croatia is to increase wages as soon as possible so that people have a decent salary for honest work. An honest salary for honest work and a dignified life of it, that's what we have to ensure people. We're not going to provide it this way, so this is how we're going to secure power and good pay for one HDZ man, Mr. Mikulic. But hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people will leave the Republic because we haven't provided them with decent conditions. So, colleagues and colleagues, let's imagine over this and try to do what our citizens expect us to do, which is that they can live off their work and that on the other hand they don't go in the wrong direction every day, which is the way they collect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140225	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club final, colleague Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140226	Thank you, Vice President. First, today we are discussing two laws with which we are harmonising these two laws with the State Inspectorate Act and we are not discussing any individual politician or individual person, today it can be one person, tomorrow it is another, but actually by discussing these two laws we are re-created by the State Inspectorate, which the SDP Government demonstrated 8 years ago, there in early 2012, 2013. So if there was a sequence in the Republic of Croatia, then by changing the government, we wouldn't have to build things over and over again. Our goal is to create institutions that will be independent, from HERA, HROTE, and also from the State Inspectorate, regardless of the Ministry, with their clear tasks and thus operate in this way to protect and protect citizens, but also companies, businesses and to create conditions for the economy to function. On the other hand, around the prices of electricity, gas and other things, we have mentioned it enough times, so the citizens felt it themselves, they saw that from 01.04 on their accounts absolutely nothing changed about the price of electricity, and also this is still the period when the household is protected from changing the price of gas on the market and we ensure that the price of gas for the household is the same for the whole year. I'll share the rest with my colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140227	No, no, you have to, I'm sorry, you have to go on, don't be angry, you have to go on, you have to go on. No, don't throw it away. [[/Intruder: What?]] Well, good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You're done arguing on behalf of the club. My colleague Maras answered, but before my colleagues, Maras, please welcome the students and students of Slunj Elementary School who have joined us in the Assembly, welcome fellow students. ... Comrade Maras, come in. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After this presentation of colleagues from HDZ, we simply have to ask for a break to consult within the Club on the incredible argument we are listening to here. We hear from our HDZ colleagues that everything is okay in Croatia, that prices don't grow, that energies don't collect, and people know well because they look at their bills from month to month, watch how much they spend on gasoline, how much they spend on electricity, how much they spend on certain other supplies that then come out of increasing the prices of these energys, so it's almost incredible to listen here to this ease without any feeling, without realizing how hard people live in the Republic of Croatia are saying that nothing happened, and that's why we want another short break to consult and prepare for the final presentation of Mr. Secretary of State to say that we simply can't tear people apart anymore. So HDZ yells people to the naked skin, it simply has to be said that it can't be so, that Mr. Sokol can't explain to our people that pensions are excellent in the Republic of Croatia, so we like that, HDZ pretends like we live in Switzerland, Finland or Sweden, but that's not unfortunately so. Unfortunately, our pensioners have disastrously low pensions, unfortunately our employees have three times less salaries than they have in the European Union and unfortunately, every day in Croatia the prices of energy are rising, inflation is on the part and people spend more and more money for their basic needs. We have to say it can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140229	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140231	So you're also taking a break, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140232	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club so that once again my colleagues in the Assembly, as well as Croatian citizens, would remind what is the topic and points of the agenda today, and why it went to the establishment of the State Inspectorate, for the simple reason that it wanted to make order where there was a mess. If I'm not mistaken in recent years, we could hear how Croatian entrepreneurs said that they knew about Banut one, the other, the third inspection, didn't know what anyone was doing, but what's key is that colleagues who couldn't admit that they made a mistake four years ago when they abolished the State Inspectorate is that this State Inspectorate was going to be a partner to entrepreneurs, so we can't get them into control of whether someone's renting because there's no reported activity. In the current law it is embedded inside that the State Inspectorate, therefore inspectors who control it can enter a space where they have indications that someone rents these premises and has not reported it, is one big newspaper and that is what we all as citizens have feared as someone from Budapest, from Ljubljana or where they can rent an apartment and apartment and they have not reported it anywhere. Well, colleagues and colleagues have given it to us that all those who are in Croatia are dealing with some sort of activity, full of the state budget, or doesn't that matter to us? Also, when we talk about the price of electrical energy, and then there's a HERA report, and then there's HERA we can crucify why she let things happen, or she won't let it. And as for 67 years, I can talk whatever my SDP colleagues want, they've done it, they've put it in the law, they've confused it and it's a fact, it's going to be someone, it's going to be from this year or that year, it's irrelevant at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140233	Thank you. Thank you, buddy. What do you want me to apologize for? Sure, go ahead. [[Intruder: Stanku.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140234	Thank you, Chairman. Today we have on the subject of several laws just to coordinate the inspection in Croatia, we know from before they were in the Inspectorate, so the SDP came to the Ministry, now it's coming back to Inspectorate, but I'm afraid that however we set up the Inspectorate and Inspectorate with the current people, of whom I personally don't have much confidence, I'm afraid the situation won't fix much. Here's an example, forest inspection also enters the inspectorate now as one of the 17 inspections in time and while there is no SDP inspectorate, and before there was an inspectorate, we lost a huge amount of forest and forest surfaces in Croatia, we were cut down 1,000 km2 in 10 years by forest plans, meaning beyond what we planned to visit, 1000 km2 we were cut down, all of this went between fingers, 25, 26 forest inspectors, whether they were in the inspectorate or in their Ministry of Agriculture. So, will this modified facility help to solve this situation, no, we will still have an absurd situation to cut our forests all over the country, I repeat, past the plan, 1000 km2 has been cut down in your time, Croatia has 55,000 km2, 1000 has been cut past the plan, not to say what is done today, today in the last few years, and in 30 years, how much have we been up? Over eight different methods in 30 years, we've been in the water for only 1,500 km2 and in 10 of the plan, we've cut down 1,000, therefore, so much for introducing order where it's a mess, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140235	Thank you. In accordance with Article 248, I am giving up until 13 o'clock, so we will continue at 13 o'clock with a final debate on behalf of the promoter, fellow Milatić, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140236	This concludes the debate, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140237	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 625. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market, please vote. I find that most of the votes 80 ZA, 14 abstentions and 28 against, have been passed the Law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140372	We are now moving to the next point, which is: - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation No. 850/2004 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 632; Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and Honorable Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140373	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this law complies with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency in such a way that professional tasks in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency are taken over by the central authority of the State Administration responsible for environmental protection. The law is in line with the special regulation and in a way that the Croatian Institute of Public Health takes over the work carried out by the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Anti-doping and the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food takes over the work carried out by the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. It is not necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt the law by an urgent procedure and that it is particularly justified reasons. A particularly justified reason for the adoption of this emergency law is the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion of 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority. I am also covered by amendments relating exclusively to the amendment, i.e. the addition of the name of the bodies responsible for the implementation of Regulation No. 850/2004 justifys an emergency procedure for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140374	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor first? No, I don't. ... Yeah? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here is the chairman of the Committee for Environmental Protection and Nature Respected Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140375	Thank you to the chairman, very briefly, so as the representative of the motions for amending this law has therefore been administrative in nature, i.e. because of the abolition of the Environment and Nature Agency, because the delegation of powers is taking place. The Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, its powers are assumed by the central authority of the state administration, i.e. it is the ministry. The second thing, the Croatian Institute of Public Health takes over the work performed by the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Antidoping. And the third thing the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food takes over the business performed by the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village. We discussed this proposal as a parent committee, the proposal was accepted by 5 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140376	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first respected representative, Damir Felak, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140377	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of the Ministry. As the chairman of the Board, Mr Sincic, said, these changes to the laws which are purely technical and do not enter into the measure of the law, means that the adoption of these amendments will bring the law into line with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and also implements the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 August 2018, which has been designated as the competent institution for taking over the business of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. The law is in line with the special regulation and in a way that the Croatian Institute of Public Health takes over the work carried out by the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Anti-doping and the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food takes over the work carried out by the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. The full implementation of that conclusion will reduce the number of agencies, which should also lead to annual savings in the state budget. I note once again, so these amendments do not go into the measure of this law, so I don't think there's any need for anything else to discuss, so HDZ will support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140378	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate, the first reported by a respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so very briefly, what I want to draw attention to is that this is one in a series of laws that are abolished, i.e. bringing together certain agencies at the ministries, and that is not necessarily bad. So some, we really had a huge number of lame agencies where they overlapped with duties and powers. But what I want to warn you is that for 2.5 years after the term of office, we are practically approaching the end of the term of office and still these agencies are coming together, shutting down, so all that shows is that these things are going very slowly and that this government, in fact, when it was headed by the state, did not know, had no clear vision of what it should do, where it should be saved and where it should end something. One of the proofs of this is that when the first session of the Parliament was brought into office on the work of the Government then the announcement of a reduction in the number of officials, i.e. the abolition of the so-called ‘Government’. Assistant Ministers as one of the savings programmes. And what we have today is that the secretary of state has been added to the same number as the assistant ministers. So the rest of them are old ministerial assistants who are still officials and now they're only being abolished after 2.5. The term of office, but they're abolished in what way? In a way that after 2.5.g. that is, almost before the end of the term of office, we have a significant increase in the number of officials in relation to the former government, and those who are being abolished today, so that is, in general, 3-4, somewhere and 5 ministerial assistants, will now become civil servants, so they will generally become permanent employees of the ministries, and when we see that these are all people who are basically, the government has appointed as officials without competitions at the beginning of this term, and now they will become civil servants, it is not a savings, but rather a conversion of officials or HDZ officials to civil servants, and again we are filling this state apparatus with party people who, by the end of the mandate, will remain in it, and it is all related to this debate that we had before this point, and that this government is essentially the only chair and functions that are not the important problems of Croatian citizens, and in this matter of which we do nothing more than the technical, and the rules in which we are concerned, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, and in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, we have a matter of the end, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in relation of the very of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of So, I will remind again of the start of this government's mandate when, for example, Mr. Goran Maric was appointed a portfolioless minister, and then after 2-3 weeks, the Ministry he is headed today was just invented. So when the law was passed in the government, it was not known that this government would have that number of ministries and that we would have that ministry and that it was necessary, but that it was only later set up. The same story is now with these ministerial assistants, the same story is with the agencies, the same as the Ministry of Economy changed its name after the Minister's appointment as Minister then, so the name was changed later, so that's all that shows that this government has no vision of how the Republic of Croatia should develop, what the state apparatus should look like, but the only goal and activities of this government are directed towards humanisation and let's say so, to satisfy the wishes of HDZ and HNS officials and these are the things I wanted to point out and that's why I think this law, although technical nature is very important to discuss and to talk about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140380	Thank you very much. I agree that these things should be spoken of, but these things should be spoken of, of the law, not of the other. We have one replica of the respected representative Vlaovic on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140381	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you that the abolition of agencies and other state bodies is just a front for some political games that may have been replaced by some officials who were not politically alike, and there is no saving, and what I am replicating to you in the light of this law on polluting substances is interesting that part of the business done by the Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency is taking over the business of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, so it seems that only the village is doing the polluting matter and that the village has disappeared from the name. Who gets in the way of the village and gets in the way of a rich peasant, that's interesting, isn't it? Why did the village just fall out? Why does the village bother anyone? This government obviously has a problem with the village, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140382	Thank you, answer to, will do. First Injury of the Rules of Procedure, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Chapter 2 of the Bureau and the participation related to how the session is chaired and I would ask you not to suggest to the MPs what they say because we are chosen here to speak our views, not yours, because otherwise you could give us an indication that we are saying what you think, but this is not the presidency's task, so please do not warn fellow Djujic He has the right to say whatever he wants. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Agreement: A colleague, a colleague of Maras...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140384	Comrade Maras, first of all, you have no right to extend your debate, that's one thing. Secondly, you do not know the Rules of Procedure, read the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure say that, in an article that you often quote, the chairman should actually be directed in the direction in which the debate is being held. I'm doing it in a mild way, I haven't warned anyone today, even though today we're talking about all the points pre-electionally, exclusively pre-electionally, and they're talking about nothing about what's going on, some point, but I tolerate it all. Therefore, when you sit in this place, you will surely do so far more successfully Comrade Maras, I now give you a warning. [[You run for nothing, that's what I'm telling you.]] Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140385	Thank you very much. I didn't want to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think I'm just talking about Mr. Vice President, therefore, because the topic is the abolition of certain agencies, the taking over of powers, and I didn't say anything but certain government affairs, so I was also talking about the abolition of ministerial assistants and the announced abolition of ministers' assistants who stopped being officials, but become civil servants, changes in ministries, in the names of ministries, in the invention of ministries, it's also with these agencies, so that's the subject of the agenda, which we used to say, here and who a colleague of Vlaovic noticed, who has a problem with the Croatian village, because that's the topic of this one, so it's an agency that's now losing its name, it bothers the HDZ fellow Vlaović, it bothers them all that it contributes to Croatian citizens, but it doesn't mind to talk about the matter of which they don't want to do what they want to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140386	Thank you very much. The next individual debate where counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic appeared, but he is not there, so he loses his right to debate and I would like to conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140387	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation No. 850/2004 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 632. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find that most of the vote 105 FOR and 16 abstentions have been passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation No. 850/2004 on persistent organic pollutants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140388	We will now move on to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment to the Regulation on carbon exploration and exploitation (National Journal of the European Union No. 37/2014). Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, based on art. 165. The Rules of Procedure of HS was conducted by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140389	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state, here is the HSS Club, which referred to the procedure of the proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Regulation on carbon exploration and exploitation. First of all, I would like to say that this proposal was addressed to the 3rd County initiative, the Belarusian-Bilogian, the Koprivnica-Crysing and the varazdinian, if I am not mistaken and that 30 mayors and mayors of the municipalities were interested in amending this regulation. I would also like to thank you to all the parliamentary deputies who have signed this proposal to enter the parliamentary procedure. I would remind you that we have already made a proposal in 2017 to amend this Regulation because the prescribed fee for, which is paid to units of local and regional self-government in the state budget under this Regulation is 10% in force in the Republic of Croatia because the compensation for the quantities to be paid. We asked to increase this to 12%, unfortunately, the government did not accept it then, with the reason that an international contract was signed that cannot simply be broken up, which is in effect until 2024. Given that we do not want the Republic of Croatia to enter court proceedings, to pay fines even though two court proceedings have already been lost on similar issues, we wanted to be constructive, so in the talks with the representatives of the ministry and the government we asked that within the existing 10%, a redistribution was made and that most of this cake, that we call it so conditionally, goes to local self-government units, and we were even so correct that in our proposal, we left it to the government itself to bring the regulation, not to go to HS, and that the government did not accept or reject this proposal, although I would remind that the MOL would be paying this fee in Hungary depending on the region where the exploitation took place between 15 and 28%. There are similar examples in other European Member States, so this proposal is based on these practices. Our wish was that, as part of this increase in the share that would be accepted by local and regional self-government units, it would be a means of funding and co-financing of EU projects, so I am now asking you why if the government had promised to change this decision, I call on the Minister Horvat to answer us if he was the bearer of these activities and in his work it was a portfolio, to inform us why the government had refused except for what they had replied that most of the concession fees and the exploitation field were through the units of local self-government, and that these 10% were shared in a way that 5% of the state's income, 3% of the local self-government units, and 2% of the regional self-government. Our question is why not all 10% of the units of local and regional self-government, and the reason is that here you already have an example, although tax reform is part of the income returned to local and regional self-government units and has increased their original incomes, but I am telling you that already these units of local and regional self-government have spent these resources on projects that have been implemented so far and have had to co-finance. Unfortunately, they don't have any money for new projects. If we want a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, if we want to create a prerequisite for these projects to be implemented locally, financed and events, to create new jobs, then we need to further increase their original revenues to local and regional self-government units. We have already discussed here several times to continue this fiscal decentralisation, to increase the original incomes of local self-government units, but unfortunately there is no answer. This is one of the concrete proposals where the state would not cost it so much, but only in the context of the redistribution of most of these funds would be the income of units of local and regional self-government. Here is just an example of the ship-posavia County, through 100 million kuna investment, energy reconstruction of public buildings, hospitals and health homes, the county must be credited for its own share because it will not be able to finance these projects on its own and practically in the next 2-3.g. There is no funding until the loan is paid for new projects, and if we want to develop all the counties, if we want to develop all the municipalities, there is no policy space here because here there are stakeholders and the heads of the HSS and HDZ and SDP, they all signed this initiative if they want to increase that share, but the government is not responding even though it has promised to increase the share of local self-government units. And also, if we are already having discussions on the new budgetary perspective of 2020, 2030, so I think it's high time to move towards a change and that contract that binds us to those 10%, you won't start on the 25th or 26th, you should already move into those negotiations, we don't have the information to negotiate if there's no logic in the Republic of Croatia that this fee is 10%, and in Hungary much bigger and in some other EU member states. It's just saying that this government doesn't have a clear direction, that she doesn't care about the initiative that comes from the field, now she's going to say that it's because HSS suggested it, but again I repeat that it's a proposal for more counties and more municipalities, different political options, so if you don't want to increase the compensation to those municipalities where HSS or SDP is in power, so at least increase where HDZ is, is there any such examples, you know those models. Here is the final example of the competition of the Ministry of Construction, where of the 26 candidate municipalities, 13 where HDZ... The mayors of the municipality's water, all 13 of them got, their projects were excellent and they passed and of 13 municipalities where not in HDZ's power only four passed, and that with symbolic amounts. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It says there are no clear criteria, no real points and no transparency. So I invite you to be fair and correct, because this is a multi-party, extra-party initiative, so to speak, with the goal of increasing the original incomes of local and regional self-government units, not politicizing. And if you really care about that, then here I am asking that the government and colleagues here present in the Croatian Parliament who come from these units of local and regional self-government that are for this initiative to support them to force the government to finally change that decision. Because it's been a year since we referred this one to the procedure in April of last year. It has been promised at informal meetings, including the Committee on the Economy to think about it and that this regulation will be amended in favour of municipalities, counties and cities to increase their original incomes. Why hasn't it been done yet? Now our proposal will be rejected, and then in a month the government will remember and bring a new regulation like when we proposed to the Ministry of Agriculture to relieve our fellow citizens of our duties when they go into nature, into the woods to pick up the fruits so they don't pay compensation, then they refused. And look at the wonders within a month and a half, Minister Tolusic brings such a regulation. So now it's ready here, too, so it doesn't matter. Just bring as soon as possible to increase our revenues to municipalities and cities. It doesn't matter what the HSS Club suggested, and other colleagues from other clubs signed it. We probably wish that everyone here in the Croatian Parliament had developed Croatia, that we had people in rural areas and that whoever exploits hydrocarbons would pay for it as well as pay for it in their home country. Here, I invite you to discuss this and agree that this is necessary for all our municipalities and cities in the county and in Croatia to have a balanced development of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140390	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140391	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you spoke in a lot of words, and mentioned this Office on the compensation for researching the exploitation of hydrocarbons which is essentially a topic and which your party has proposed to change in a way that increases the income of local self-government units within 10%. You didn't get ready very well, because you didn't even know how to name the county that you suggested because that's your suggestion. So these are Koprivnica-križevačka, Virovitičko-podravska and Bjelovar-Bilogorska County. Let me just tell you that through the association or community of municipalities and through the Association of Cities and through the Community of County, the same or similar proposal has been addressed and the Government is working on it and will soon come out with its proposal. So to compete who would be first in that, but at least you could prepare a little better. This will not benefit all units of local self-government, but only some. But in any case, he'll be fine when that regulation changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140392	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140393	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, pal, for the replica. I'm glad you're up to this problem, and I was just asking you to pick up the line to tell me which counties are involved, but neither are you. There are interested and Vukovar-Srijem County because we have an exploitation field there too, and I hope soon some other districts where research is being done and where it is generally confirmed that there is an interest in exploitation. So it's more of an interest than the one you mentioned. And we did it a year ago. Not now in the wake of the European elections campaign. Why is it that the government hasn't responded in a year, but the post-festum will react? I don't know when. Croatian citizens can no longer wait. Croatian citizens are moving especially from these rural areas. Let us enable them to have for their development projects funds. Give it up and you raise your hand for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140394	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140395	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaovic, you said that this government has no clear direction on this issue. He's got a clear direction. The clear direction of this government is that nothing changes because they do not fit the fiscal decentralisation of cities and municipalities and counties because then whoever works very hard, who is very attractive, who is developed has money and that money invests in their further development. And in this system that we have today, HDZ ministers share various funds by political keys in cities and municipalities as a rule where HDZ is in power. And that's why they resist this model because we have examples where they've come up with some solutions and they say, "Now we're bringing this in temporarily and we'll fix it in the future." And we hear now that one of the arguments here is being prepared is a complete solution, so we can't even do what would be at least temporary good for some to accept and that's the model by which HDZ works. Although they know very well where they're going and what direction it is and there's nothing weird about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140396	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140397	Thank you. My colleague Đujic, so I said that we did not want to politicise with this topic, that we went with a broad action that as many municipalities and cities of interested people as possible and that they were involved and I thank them for being fair and correct and pointing to this problem that really exists. But I agree with you that the government obviously has no clear direction or has no clear criteria in which it wants to resolve this. So if they don't know, there are independent experts, there's practice in Hungary, there's practice in Austria, Germany. Let them see what models they've prepared. Just let them finally increase the share of income to the local and regional self-government units from this part, because it is a way not to touch the tax funds that are paid to the state budget, but to exactly those who earn profits in the Republic of Croatia, and that is certainly MOL why not pay at least similar to what it pays in Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140398	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140399	Thank you very much. Well, here, in your debate, I think you can recognize the initiative that we all supported. I'm among them who signed it because I'm from that constituency. I know what a problem it is for local units in Podravina, in the Bjelovar-Bjelovar County and how much money should be returned for a part of the exploitation of our raw materials, but also for the possibility that these units may have a chance to use the wealth on which they lie. Why leave so much funds for example to MOL and Hungarians when we can only transfer a small part of the money to units of local self-government that could then make a very useful use of it? I really don't understand who might be against this idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140400	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140401	So I once again appeal to the Government, here present secretary of state, but also to all parliamentary deputies to support this amendment, especially since we were correct, we didn't write that all 10% must go to local and regional self-government units. We are aware that the state has part of the cost of keeping these records. But what I forgot to mention in the opening statement is that units of local and regional self-government can't get the right information from the INA MOL that's being exploited, but they have to believe the data they deliver to the competent state authorities and therefore pay that fee that is, which has been constantly decreasing in recent years. And it's an appeal for both the government and the competent ministries to verify whether these data is correct and whether the INA Mol is really paying the part that really exploits our local and regional self-government units, and especially what we expect to increase the share that would be income to municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140402	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140403	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Vlaovic's, yes, income to local self-government units has been reduced since not since 93, where it was 3.1% and this total income to local self-government units. And I must point out that our club means the Labour Club of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, the independent representatives of the same submitted a request to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a change of this Regulation and not only for hydrocarbons and other mineral raw materials, and here compared to 60% of local self-government units, 20% to the regional and 20% state. So I have to point out that not only for hydrocarbons, but also for other mineral raw materials where the fees are also for thermal water. It all means general for all hydrocarbons and mineral raw materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140404	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140405	Thank you, Vice President. You're one of the signatories of this initiative and I'm sorry you did what you did. But it's an honor to you. You're one of the chips. You've moved into that club that supports this government. You're about to change the rules. Let's change it more and don't tell stories, brag about how something is done, and we can see that the government hasn't been able to change the regulation for a year, even though they promised, and you know they promised. Why? Who bothers to increase the income of units of local and regional self-government, and I said it was intended for development projects, because especially in the next perspective of the 2020 budget, 2030 when an increase in its own share is announced from 15% to 30%. So I ask you, what municipalities and cities will our county have to co-finance projects if we don't increase their income? Vlado, wake up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140406	Thank you. Before we continue to welcome the gallery of students and students of the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb. Now does the Government representative want to further explain his opinion? [[Applause.]] Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. The government considers that the distribution of cash compensation for the quantities of hydrocarbons obtained has been fairly distributed and units of local self-government have not been abolished. In particular, considering that the cash compensation for the area of the investigative space or the exploitation field fully belongs to the local self-government unit and generates additional income. In fact, the new law or the latest amendments have no division between several entities, but directly goes to the units of the local self-government that has been introduced, and these revenues are increasing every day given that some contracts are under way and that in the 6th month, tenders for Panon 2 are now closed and there will certainly be contracts there, and so these are some new revenues that local self-government will have on the basis of existing legal solutions. In the process of analysis, an expert analysis will be carried out in accordance with the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. More specifically, it is already in the works, expected revenue from the long-term compensation for hydrocarbons, and therefore consider both the financial effects and other criteria which determine the compensation by seeing the experiences of other similar countries in these and other similar issues. In fact, it is a revenue that is now somewhere at the level of 450 million kuna and any part of the funds that will potentially be relocated to local self-government will not be taken to any Molu or any third one, but to the state budget in favour of local self-government. So we need to run an analysis of future revenues and see how we stand with finance and practice in other countries and on this basis bring a new regulation. Because, as esteemed counterpart Vlaovic has already pointed out, the fee is fixed according to existing contracts. It's under the so-called "new contracts." Production agreement, there are certainly more generous fees, but clearly we have not yet come to the situation that we have direct income from it. When it comes to this, there will certainly not be such issues and discussions, because it will be significant, significantly much higher revenues for local self-government. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the proposal for a conclusion on the amendment to the Regulation on CO2 research and exploitation by the HSS promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140408	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140409	Thank you very much. In this presentation of yours, the only thing you haven't said when it will be, when these units of local self-government will feel a certain financial input injection that they can do and plan certain things that they can't now. So we have a very simple fact that the INA, or now the majority owner of MOL, has disproportionately greater benefits than our natural wealth, than the people who live there. But that's not the 70:30 ratio. That's a 1:100 ratio. So local self-government units need to be left with a little more money. You say it will be. When will it be? Here's what it's like to know if it's in a year, two, five so we can tell people. Don't talk about general phrases, because it really doesn't mean anything to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140410	Answer. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140411	Dear Representative Maras, I could also say that you're talking about general phrases, because you're aware of facts and legal solutions. 10% of what we had before was 10% fixed. In these 10% of the total 450 can be divided by the basis of the regulation as it is. As for new contracts, the Vukovar-Srijem County already has significant revenues under the new law that are directly paid to the county and to no one else. And these revenues will be growing, especially when new contracts are put together. And when you get confirmed reserves and start getting exploited physically, that clearly depends on the process that is geologically economical and every other nature and which is ongoing. And as for this fixed part now, it comes down to what I said. The moment we change the regulation, then the state budget will lose something, and local self-government will give something. As a government, we have nothing against it in principle, but you have to make sure that we have to bring it in sustainablely and prescribe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140412	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140413	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Milatić, you said that these 450 million if adopted this law would be redistributed not in a way to take MOL or any such, but to go from the state budget to the units of local self-government and I personally don't see the problem. I don't see a problem. Why is it that the money that comes from economic activity or exploitation, I'm not just talking about this law right now? So I'm speaking in general. The mountain cotter has nothing to do with the exploitation of Croatian forests. There's a promil that 7.5% forest contribution. So this, like my colleague Maras said, are 1:100 ratios. Why not have at least one significant part of the funds to be made in the area of certain cities of citizens directly there, rather than relying on the government's will to deploy those 450 million kunas according to the regulations it then makes according to the criteria. As a rule, she can give money wherever she wants, whatever she wants, and who she wants. That's what we're up against from the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140414	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140415	First, the government doesn't give where it wants, where it wants, and what it wants, but the government prescribes percentages by regulation. And where and where, it's defined by oil fields and situations that apparently occurred before. Everything you're saying should have been kept long before the INA sale itself and the situation itself as it was then hired and arranged. It's just fixed handed over like that. You must know that until yesterday we only had data on research and data from the INA, that now the Agency for Hydrocarbons has it all systemically. All someone had to think about was that, and it wasn't. So that's where you have to take both part of the guilt and your administration that you're in. But we are now talking specifically about this situation, and this is a regulation, percentages, kunas, and clearly we need to be responsible for other citizens, we cannot just give the state budget money... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140416	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140417	That's the rural good of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140418	The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140419	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I want to point out once again that by 2009, this was a complete income to local self-government units. After that, regulations were amended and it was a justification for why we asked for an increase for units of local and regional self-government. We asked you not to go from the state budget to 10 percent, so you can't and cannot do that because of the signed contract. And now you're saying there's still financial analysis to be done to see what the revenues are and what they do. Well, then you doubt the quality of that data you get from INA Moll. That's what the mayors, the mayors, suspect as well. You, as states, should have that information. For a year now, this is a year and a half. You could already have and should have had these financial analyses and made concrete decisions. I don't know why you keep delaying with the excuse we still have to analyze. It's just a matter of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140420	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140421	As far as the data is concerned, we also have information for your information and our inspection while she was in our ministry and now that she's in the State Inspectorate regularly controls and we have data on quantities and inspectors regularly go. But I'm telling you, it's not just a decision on the basis of the current data, but we need to run an analysis and predict what it's going to be and it takes some time. And we will soon have a situation and a proposal for a new regulation that will be proposed to the government tomorrow. Now it would be irresponsible of us to say that we agree with something that we agree on if we're not 100% sure about. And to be sure, we need to be on a scientific and material and every other basis 100% sure of what to do and how to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140422	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Hungarians. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140423	Thank you. Yes, clearly, within only these 450 million kunas can be redistributed. But you said it must be and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia must know. But clearly they need to know, but they're still the most damaged units of local self-government in which the fields are drills. And that is why we believe that the most important thing is to belong to these units of local self-government, and also those units of local self-government were also in debt on the basis of how much income they had from the mining rent, because they too have to work on the debt plans. And the reduction is practically reduced income, the income has been reduced. And because of production itself, it depends on the price of oil, the income of local self-government units has been reduced, and they are now in a difficult position. and they are now in a difficult position, so I appeal to the government that as soon as possible, sums this up and increases income to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140424	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140425	It's all right what you're saying, but everyone has to be fiscally responsible anyway. So what I'm talking to you here on behalf of the government only with fiscal responsibility positions, in order to bring one regulation, we need to be 100% sure of its fiscal effects. Also, the clear units of local self-government had to make sure that there was going to be a drop in prices or other, it was simply a question that all of us who are dealing with the budget must take due account of and, in that sense, that decision as simple as it seems to you and it is not that simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140426	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the boards. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140427	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state who doesn't answer to counsel Bunjc. So today we're talking about the exploitation of hydrocarbons and it seems that this topic is very important because, among other things, we saw that in that government, the building team, the signed Exploitation Treaty in Slavonia for the 4 territorial sectors, we see that it was essentially a capital project for him because it was the last thing he did in the government and then it was just an accident contract signed with the Canadian company... And the prime minister was a very Canadian citizen, of course, that happened by accident, and we don't have to doubt that it had anything to do with it, not a pure game of coincidence. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this story is important, however, we have seen further because the Government of Andrej Plenkovic continued to work in haste on the project, and here at the 123rd session of the Government, which was 31.10.2018, means, about 6 months ago, a decision was made to grant research and exploitation permits in those areas. This information was certainly of interest to the local administration due to the possibility that they could earn something in the whole story, especially in view of the compensation which has been disputed for a long time, so the compensation is questionable for several reasons. The first reason this rent is charged at 10% in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that in many countries a much higher rent is charged, so let's say even in neighbouring Hungary 12%, Romania 13%, and there are countries where the rent goes up to even very high 30%. From that rent, one part of the cake, let's say, belongs to the local administration, one part of the cake belongs to the regional administration, so let's say the county municipalities and half belongs to the state, and in fact it often happens that the inhabitants of the area where the wells are located have the least benefit from it even though logic would say that they should have some kind of greatest benefit. So basically according to the current Croatian law, the municipalities actually get only 3% of that exploitation and that is the intention of the legislator, so, specifically, the HSS to increase that fee. Among other things, what is controversial is that these gas companies always pay the municipalities one amount and the same amount as the flatulence. So, let's say, the community that gets 2 million, each year gets 2 million, and basically the problem is that nobody knows what real production is. So, the local administration can't figure out how much oil was really drained in some area because it's like business, it's a business secret and not only can't figure out how much production is, but often no matter how much oil is on the world market, so sometimes oil is more expensive, sometimes oil is cheaper, they always get one and the same rent again, and so be suspicious that these people are being cheated, so local administration is being cheated. First, it was deceived in a way that these companies paid less profit than they do in neighbouring and other countries, and the second question is that, therefore, they have no insight into production, they have no insight into production and can in fact seriously doubt that they do not get either 3%, but that in practice they get 2, 1 or even less. That is why it is necessary for this area to be settled, that this area is arranged and on the other hand we from the Living Wall support this initiative, meaning the first thing to determine a fairer fee because what a company can pay in Hungary and Romania can certainly be in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand, to increase transparency for local administration to see how real production was from a single well and to pay the percentage on the basis of the real state, rather than on the basis of an arbitrary permanent amount. When we talk about the start of these mass drillings even though it has actually been going on for decades, it is especially important to draw attention to the way drilling is done and here I want to warn the local administration of those people who do not know that it is very likely to drill on many of these wells that are now agreed to be so called the fracking method, or hydraulic fragmentation, which is very dangerous to the environment, to animals and to humans. It is a gas extraction method that has been banned in many federal states of the United States, in many European Union countries such as Germany, France and even Bulgaria. Just a brief explanation of what the hydraulic fracture was about, that Međimurje was also in danger, but not on our part, but on the Slovenian side because they wanted to implement the method in Mura, near Mura. So, hydraulic fractionation or a shortened fracking process is done in a way that leads to a well of about 400 tanks of water, a lot of water means about 30 million liters of water, that water mixes with about 600 chemicals, most of which is very dangerous as living, uranium, methane and so on, in fact carcinogens, and then that water impressions deep under the ground at a depth of 1 to 3 kilometers where it grinds the ground, grinds the ground, and through that crushed ground comes the gas, and then comes out through the well and takes it. These chemicals that are released into the ground are generally not decomposable and the worst of all remains underground. So they don't drag out, they're dragged into one small area, but in most cases they stay underground. These chemicals can affect groundwater, it turns out that near the wells, for example, levels of methane up to 20 times higher in wells than in areas where there are no wells. With this water, polluted water, the agricultural terrain is irrigated, water is given for drinking to animals, and it is often used by people. In many areas where hydraulic fractures were used, there were even smaller earthquakes, and even fires, and you wouldn't believe it until the fires through the water installations, so someone would open up, I don't know the tap in the kitchen, the bathroom, and the fire would pop out, and the fire would jump out of it instead of the water. So it's important to stress that citizens know that those close to these wells, that it's very easy not only to benefit from it, but it's going to have very big damage, and it's a very big question of whether it's worth having these wells, whether it's for the benefit of people, or whether it's actually for the benefit of corporations and Mr. Building, but in fact, there's no benefit to the local administration except a few tens of thousands of kunas that will be thrown at them as some kind of crumbs off the table while it's basically a huge main gain to have that company and the state itself, that I'm not saying that they'll be filled with private pockets of politicians. Following this, we from the Living Wall have asked questions at our time to the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, a representative issue, and for a wonderful miracle we have even received an answer, we can thank Mr Dobrovic for that. So we asked whether a hydraulic fractionation method is used in Croatia, so we have everything black on white, and we have the answer so far that in Croatia, we have 134 wells with this method, means 134, specifically in Bjelovar-Belogorje County 10, in Koprivnica-križevci County 25, in Međimurje 1 buškotina, Osijek-Baranja 6, Sisak-Moslavina 34, Virovička-Podravka 4 and Zagrebačka as much as 54 well. So we have very clear evidence that essentially the fragmentation in Croatia is being used, and this should also be linked to this whole topic that I've been talking about, means not only the questions of compensation that is deeply unfair, but the question of the general benefit that comes from the exploitation of hydrocarbons where we can suspect that the damage is causing far greater, far greater problems than the benefits that can be gained. We don't need to ignore the whole story, of course, the diseases that spread in people, on a daily basis, and cancer, and autoimmune diseases, and so on, so here I was going through this speech to raise awareness of this whole problem. Unfortunately, in Croatia, this exploitation seems to mean that hydrocarbons are not high-quality, and unfortunately it seems more than that, if I may express myself in such a way about raping my own country than something that can ultimately bring us some great benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140428	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Totgergeli will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140429	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, before us is the proposal for a conclusion on the amendment to the Regulation on hydrocarbon research and exploitation, so today we are discussing the proposal for a conclusion by, which has been drawn up by colleagues from the HSS, under which they should oblige the Government to adopt a new regulation within 90 days. In conclusion, the proposal does not state that the regulation should appear, but simply says it should be more favourable for the local community. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the government's position on the proposal's conclusion. We heard here today during the debate on this proposal the conclusion that the compensation received by local self-government units by 2009. It belonged entirely to the municipalities and cities. At that time, however, it is forgotten that this fee was only 3.1% at that time, today the fee is 10%, between 2009 and 2014. The units of local self-government or municipalities and cities belonged at one point to 2.76%, at one point 2.5%, but now from 2014, so to this day it belongs to 3%, which means the difference is only 0.1% compared to before 2009, and so when it is said that the whole fee went to municipalities and cities then it turns out that it was much more than what it is now. However, the fact is that then it was going, the whole fee was 3.1%, and now the entire fee is 10% and of that 10%, 3% goes to municipalities and cities, on the other hand 2% at this point goes to the county, which by 2009, the county has absolutely nothing and at this point is the 5% that goes to the state budget. What may be different now than before 2009 or another 10 years before that, is the fact that less quantities are exploited than those years, and then the total amount of that fee is slightly less than it was then. When we talk about fiscal decentralisation and whether this government has a feeling or not for fiscal decentralisation, then I think the opposition colleagues deliberately fail that we have just implemented tax reform, and in the conversation with the mayors, mayors, and even the mayors, and here last Friday and with the HSS chiefs in the field of Bjelovar-Bilogian County, but also all the other mayors and mayors can say that they have just praised this tax reform because this year they have some municipalities even twice as much as they had in their previous years, thanks to the tax reform implemented by this government. Therefore, when we talk about this conclusion, we also have to take care of the fiscal year, so these 90 days turn out to commit the government to something that would be spent in the middle of the year. So, I personally think, and the HDZ Club also supports both the government and the ministry in an effort to make a comprehensive analysis of this issue and then to adopt a regulation that will allow even greater fiscal decentralisation and more resources to be made available to municipalities and cities, but by stressing that this is exactly what this government has already implemented through tax reform and all that it is doing so far. So we support them to create a new regulation in which even more resources will be made to municipalities and cities, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140430	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first came from a respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140431	Thank you very much, colleague Reiner. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, will personally support this proposal for a conclusion on a new regulation which the HSS asks the Government to adopt within 90 days a new regulation that would justly distribute this compensation among units of local administration and self-government, and I do not believe that the arguments used by representatives of the rulings to challenge this proposal stand at all. So here and now a colleague outside the HDZ Club said that he supports the government in its efforts to implement decentralisation, to free even more funds from the units of local administration and self-government, here's a suggestion that he agrees. So, I can't see, I can't figure it out then, I think you'll support this proposal conclusion because it's just going in that direction that you said you support. So, he advocates that units get even more funding, so I think here, I'm glad that you might support it all the way, maybe personally if not on behalf of the club, but why do I support this among other things? Because this conclusion requires a fairer allocation of funds between local administration units and self-government. So, these 450 million kunas that we're talking about here, which are now ending in the state budget, colleagues are asking for a regulation to prescribe a way for as much of these funds to remain exactly for the cities and municipalities where they, let's say, are earning. And why I think it is possible to implement, that the arguments that are being refuted or state the reasons why this proposal should not be adopted, do not stand. So, the announcement of a whole solution, it's one of the phrases often used by the ruling when they want the opposition's proposals not to be adopted, then they say we can't adopt it because it's in the preparation of a complete solution, and the preparation of this whole solution takes years and never comes. So that's not there. The second thing, this would lead to certain solutions in the middle of the fiscal year, and then it couldn't be implemented, it doesn't stand either. So this government, or proposed one law, and this HS passed that law, and that law is called the Law on mountainous mountainous areas. So that's the law that came into force from 1.1 this year, and that's the law that's just a framework, that's what's being said here, that's the framework that's going to be deployed, that's going to be better, that's going to be, what's going to be, there's not a single measure in that law, and it's also announced, as a framework, and there's going to be accompanying, accompanying documents, or a strategy to develop mountainous areas that will be brought into cooperation with local self-government units that will then prescribe what these cities and municipalities are going to do, and what residents in mountainous areas will have benefits from that law. It was 90 days before that, since the date of entry into force of the Law to adopt this Regulation, it has been five months since this Law was in force, there is no U since the Regulation, so the cities and the municipalities have not even begun to discuss it at all, nor to make any proposals, so if at all it goes in that direction to measure and bring them in, they will not be brought in the middle of the fiscal year at all, but at the end of the fiscal year, so another year has failed on this issue, and that is another one of the laws that should have been solved by the local self-government units, make fair distribution, make the lives of the citizens in that area better, and waiting for this government to do something, nothing will happen. So we have another failed year behind us, another promise by the ruling and only sentences we have brought something. Now you're saying, here you've brought a whole law that is essentially, you've announced it as a framework that will give guidance to future measures, and this proposal is the conclusion you're contesting because it's not concrete. Well, this proposal for a conclusion is exactly the framework that gives the Government direction so that it should bring about a regulation that will improve the position of local self-government units. Just as your Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is a framework that gives direction to the Ministry to take certain measures to make citizens in these areas live better. So these are all the solutions that we're up for and we're trying to be right now, so what's stopping you from making this conclusion? This conclusion and you give the government 90 days to work on it and make it a fairer distribution of funds that are coming into these areas of these units, and then you prepare a parallel whole framework, so make it 90 days ago and we'll adopt it so there won't be any problems, but no, you're working on the system as well as this Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, you pass the Law and you say we passed the Law, and the Law isn't being implemented, why?, because there are no documents. This morning we're changing the laws that need to be done by the State Inspectorate, so we've united the State Inspectorate, it doesn't work, why?, because there's not been a series of accompanying laws. In fact, you, this government is working on exactly this example of how the state administration is, you've been so complicated about passing these laws, you've tied them to each other, that basically everything you bring is inconclusive. So, things can't work on the ground exactly because you pass laws, you bring regulations, you bring regulations, you don't bring sublaws, and that's how this government works all the time. When you were speaking from the ruling, colleague Totgergeli how the Government took care of the units of local self-government and how did the mayors and mayors thank you for being satisfied that you were better, let's say you did talk to them about a problem of municipal compensation that the state does not pay to units of local self-government, for example for military, for certain state facilities located in the areas of these cities and municipalities? Here in the Association of Cities and municipalities, they have a huge example of this, so after two, three years, the debts of the State and the Ministry towards these Cities and the municipalities of the municipal fee paid, even though certain mayors and mayors are being blackmailed and they are told that they will not be financed projects in their areas unless they give up their claim to the Ministry of Finance for those funds. Does that care how HDZ cares about cities and municipalities? Forced, blackmailed? That's how you guys work. So, give a little talk to the Association of Cities and municipalities about this problem, so if you give, there are in my County Cities and municipalities that you owe three, four million kunas to the Ministry of Finance to pay and don't pay them, so give them that money so you won't have to give them these certain benefits to others, but you bring the Cities to addictions on you and on the central government so that you can then buy votes and blackmail these mayors and mayors, and give them funds only where HDZ is in power. That's how this government works, that's how the HDZ works, and that's what we're fighting against, and one of the reasons we're fighting right now is that in this whole debate you're ruling, you haven't given a single argument except for those I've now cited that why this would not be a good solution and that you shouldn't, but that's why you're just saying the middle of the fiscal year, we're working on a whole solution, so this isn't a bad solution for you either, but you're not going to support it just because you're proposed by your colleagues from HSS, and because you're behind them are mayors of County who are not HDZ in power, and that's not how the state should function, and that's why I'll support this proposal for the conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140432	We've got some replicas. He is the first respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140433	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Djujic, above all, thanks for the support of this proposal to amend the Regulation, often criticises us from the opposition that we are only criticising, that we have no concrete proposals, is our wish, us from the HSS, and I see to you, that we all have equal chances in our country, and we will only have equal chances if we have our own sources and if they can count on them to increase, that you can plan your development. And it was in this context that this amendment to the proposal for a conclusion to amend the Regulation, to increase the income of units of local self-government, to have their own income, not to have to run from the Ministry to the Ministry and to beg for money for some project without the right criteria and points, and I am afraid that at the end of this proposal for a Regulation will be part of the political blackmail and trade, which is clearly already announced through these discussions so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140434	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140435	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Vlaovic's, therefore, no unit of local self-government or citizens, through their representatives in those units, are seeking except what belongs to them. So here we are talking about the areas that are today in the Republic of Croatia among the poor, which in history were the richest regions of the Republic of Croatia. So, we're talking about Slavonia, which today is plagued and devastated, where people go, and it's said to be a grain house of Europe and that it could feed all of Europe. We're talking about Gorski Kotor who's lived his whole life from the forest and from the exploitation of wood, and today they need special laws to make people live there better. So, only those ends should be given that what is exploited by them is that they live on their wealth, not everything, let 30% of what is collected there, remain in those environments, and they will be very well and then these people will not emigrate from there and they are not asking for charity. So they're not asking for the mercy of this government, they're asking for it to be given to them. what belongs to them. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140436	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140437	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Djujic, for many years, I have been the head of the local administration unit and the shift from the earlier period was never again when it came to decentralisation and I am convinced that the decentralisation package will soon come for all of what you say is negative. On the other hand, I have to deny you and tell you the following, never one government, and even less this one, has singled out a special investment in municipalities where HDZ alone is headed. The reason why any unit of local administration is running for certain projects is exclusively from the agility of the leaders in the units of local administrations and their solution project. You have a unit of local administration very much, regardless of whether they're HDZ or someone else's who hasn't prepared the project documentation and can't to achieve certain... [[Intruder: Answer...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140438	...the esteemed representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140439	Thank you, fellow Loncar, I did not say that only in HDZ units are given, but mostly that, most of the projects, yes, the biggest projects, to defuse me, announce how much money from the state budget goes to which city and municipality. Well, we had this one the other day about demining the debate. Therefore, the MUP allocates funds without any improvement criteria, not on demining, but on improving road safety. So, the MUP without any criteria annually gives millions to edit roads across cities and municipalities without criteria, nor knows who got those millions, and they got cities to which HDZ is in power, is, is a fellow Loncar, that's so. I know it's easy for you, you're still in HDZ, so you get money as a leader, it's not your problem, let's say you're in another party, then you'll be faced with problems that your fellow mayors and mayors from other parties experience, you're in HDZ, so you get funds, it's not a problem, but normally you have to work sometimes. So, no projects You can't have the money. [[Intruder: Now on behalf of...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140440	Proposer finally speak to the respected representative Vlaović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140441	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State, above all, thank you to all of you who have taken part in this debate, thank you and these colleagues who have supported our proposal to amend the conclusion or the Government's regulation by closing. I also accept certain criticisms that our proposal for a conclusion is not until the end of technical, nomotechnical, done. But there was plenty of time when this law, the proposal of conclusion, came to the procedure that you could do with the amendment, so here I am now calling you while I'm still talking, and I'm going to talk if you need another 29 minutes to write an amendment to the units of local self-government within these 10 to 7%, 2% to the counties, 1% to the state, here, is there anything else you suggest. Why am I saying that? Well, because we really want to, not just to me and us from the HSS Club, but to everyone who has discussed it here, and to all those who listen to this debate and to the mayors who are interested in changing this regulation, it is in their interest that it happens as soon as possible because they have to plan their development, they have to plan projects and where they will finance them. Yes, I mentioned here, tax reform has returned some of the income to local and regional self-government units, and my county's about 22 million kunas have increased their original incomes, but we lost 30 million kunas in two years before that because of those amendments to the law and you can never make up for it. And in a similar situation are other units of local and self-government. We want to really have all of us in the Republic of Croatia equal chance, especially those who are underdeveloped, where people move from, and even from Podravina, to increase the incomes of those units of local self-government. So here, go, write down the amendment, give them bigger revenues, it doesn't have to be within 90 days to come into effect this new conclusion, write in the amendment to come into force from 1.1 next year, if it has to be properly analysed and planned for the financial year, and I agree with that, but there is no proposal from you, we have made one proposal, as it is, but we have given it to increase revenues to units of local and regional self-government. I ask you to be cooperative, I know that your units of local self-government are very supportive, and you yourself have signed that proposal. Why don't we go right now with that, and not wait for some financial research to be done, you can think, some scientific project, so it's all known, said the nice secretary of state 450 million kuna. Now it's just political decisions how we're going to divide them, how many states, how many municipalities, how many counties. I don't believe that the state would be threatened to give out of these 450 million kunas 400 to local and regional self-government units, and 50 remains to the ministry, so they don't have any higher costs that these 50 million kunas wouldn't cover those material costs they have. What records do you keep, what costs do you have to finance with that money? Be honest and tell the Secretary of State, we could just need it here's a government decision and we hear there's going to be a government decision and it's sad what's going to happen based on political pressure and blackmail, let's do it transparently to know that it's in the interest of all citizens, not because it's proposed by HSS, SDP or HDZ because one is the Republic, we all love it, and we all want to live in it better. But this way it's not fair, it's not correct. And I would add to the placement of funds from the resolution ministries. I have data specifically from 20 municipalities that were asked to compete with projects from the Ministry of Construction, 13 got HDZ municipalities, everyone had excellent projects. And that's 80% of the money. And then it wouldn't be possible to say that it was only given to HDZ, they got 3 where HDZ wasn't in power but they got 100 thousand kuna each. Here, democratically transparent and clear. So don't do that, let's really, the municipalities have their own sources of income, especially what comes our financial perspective when we have to allocate up to 30% of our own funds for projects. What is it from the municipality of MOL or some other? They will have nothing to do with it, we have to raise them and continue this financial decentralisation or provide a fund to finance the projects. Now you're gonna say the Ministry predicted that. Yes, 300 million kuna is in that fund, a 7.8 day tender is expected for those funds. And you know what's gonna happen? In two days it will be spent, so many preparatory projects. Who's gonna get them? It'll be interesting to see who gets them. And secondly, what next? New projects should also be written and prepared, from which we will co-finance them. Poland has been successful in withdrawing funds from the EU precisely because it has created such funds at regional level to prepare and co-finance projects. Now, this government won't because then there's no argument that it's politically active, that it's blackmailing. Make it that each region, that each county has a fund for projects and that it decides which projects it will co-finance and not that the mayor or mayor must run from door to door by ministry and seek funds. How to increase original revenues? So here's one example by increasing this carbon charge. Of course and tomorrow, other mineral raw materials why not increase the share to the affected quantities of forest mass. There are a number of examples, one of which is fuel prices, I told Mr. Bačić today, what you plan to do, fuel prices are constantly rising. More than 60% go to the state budget, intervene, help the economy and citizens, give 1% to municipalities and cities for projects from these revenues. Here, from these arguments, I say that a lot more could be done for municipalities and cities in Croatia if you want a quality, even development of all and not just some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140442	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. He is the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140443	Thank you very much. Comrade Vlaovic, you said 400 million from the state budget that redistributing these units would certainly not endanger the state budget, would not. So we listen every day to Minister Maric, who boasts of the state budget, boasts of credit ratings, forecasts, etc., millions come and now the problem here is to redistribute 400 million kunas to cities and municipalities. And the only decentralisation they carry is to transfer powers and certain things to the county but not to transfer funds but to transfer liabilities without money. And that's what they say and then they say, here's what you're going to decide now, but the money stays in the state budget. And that's why every initiative like this that goes in that direction is going to make it easier and to spread the cities financially and the municipalities will be supported by me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140444	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140445	Thank you very much. So here we are from the HSS, and we personally advocate, above all, the transparent spending of taxpayers' money, budget money. And I am aware that since the revenue of 450 million kuna is planned in the budget of the state or the competent ministries that it is difficult now to change the decision within 90 days and make it, we would have to make a rebalancing. So I said compromise, here we go with the amendment to come into effect from 1.1 next year. Don't wait for the government to still do financial research, to do political parties, clubs, chips and pressures, to just then go change this regulation and say here's what we've made the decision, we help the municipalities. So help me, you could've done it a year ago. The municipalities have already been able to prepare some project with these funds, and this is how we lose two more financial years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140446	The Republic has a respected representative, Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140447	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vlaovic, of course, that these fees, we see that in general they have a strong impact on the local environment, we are talking about a fee from hydrocarbons, concession fees for the country, for the coast. And today, also in the Government, the use of both thermal water and mineral waters has been transferred to the government, and again, the question that is the fee, which is the benefit, which is the right measure if such profits are realised, particularly high, how just it is for local self-government to get. How much is achieved from a barrel of oil that is exhausted in a Slavonic field, how much is the profit, how much is participated in all this local self-government. These are questions that are being asked, and we see that concessions, ground floor, underground, seem to be the key to that dissatisfaction and actually obstruction of local development because we don't actually get what we've been living on since ancient times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140448	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140449	Well, thank you, colleague, for your replica, it's crucial, and I believe that everyone here would like, and the Secretary of State himself, that we have transparent data on how much hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia are really affected and whether this fee is actually paid on the basis of relevant data. I said in the introduction that the Commissioners we spoke with in preparation for this topic, given the continuing reduction, we understand that the economic crisis and the field itself may be reducing the exploitation but doubting the data shown. And I'd like to hear what the inspection results are, when they were and if they really found that everything was clean. Because we have an example that Agrokor did everything according to the law, everything was transparent to the sudden financial problems, only when the public reacted. Perhaps the chiefs should have writtenly asked for the inspection to come out, to determine the actual quantities and then to know whether they had received a fair fee and had not received it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140450	The Republic has a respected representative, Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140451	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, in your first address, you said that only four municipalities of the HSS received funds from the Ministry of Construction. In the second, you said three municipalities had won. I can give you 3 municipalities from Međimurje which they have received and who are very happy to receive the municipality of Domasinec, the municipalities of St. Mary and the municipality of Strahoninec. If you consider this to be small for their municipalities, make arrangements with the commissioners not to report to the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140452	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140453	Thank you. My colleagues, I didn't invent this information, we have here in my cell a message that I received from the mayor of the municipalities behind that data they provided me. And I call on my superiors, or all the commissioners, to be active and to prepare projects, without projects, without building permits, there is no development. However, what we wanted, by amending this regulation, which is to increase their original income so that they can plan quality development projects and finance them rather than have to run from the ministry to the ministry because, in my view, this is not quite transparent, something that should not be played here. And I call on all the ministries to publicly announce everything that the municipalities have received, in which way and by the basis of which projects and then we'll make sure that everything is okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140454	We will conclude this debate on this point and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140455	Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Regulation on the carbon exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, National Journal No 33/2014, is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the debate is concluded. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion amending the Regulation on hydrocarbon research and exploitation fees, National No 33/2014, which is not accepted by the Government or by the parliamentary parent board. Please, let's vote. They don't accept government, nor Parliament's working bodies, they don't accept. Did you concentrate? Okay, fine. I find that the proposal for a conclusion did not receive the required number of votes, it was 39 for and 75 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140456	We are now going to the point: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, first reading, P.Z. No. 449 Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists; Proposer of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the debate on the item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Honorable Representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140457	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, and once again Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Of course, there must always be a reasonable cause for how to solve a particular problem or need that we have in Croatian society. We had last year, last year, it's actually still going on, maybe in some other intensity, media primarily, but it takes years of air pollution problems in Slavonski Brod. We can start by looking at this cause through two problems. One problem is the really bad state of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, which has not been modernized for years where Russian owners, in fact, cloud not only us here but also the BiH authorities that will implement a modernisation that is not happening. And therefore, problems arise from oil processing, by extracting numerous substances that are harmful, which go into the atmosphere, pollute not only the air but the whole environment, there is a threat to the population. What's even more problematic is that in that refinery, oil is processed, which is extremely poor quality, so I'd like to put a little weight on how we approach problem solving. We see that our diplomatic efforts towards solving the refinery, the problems of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship are not born with some fruit that there are numerous attempts, and even then there are additional handouts and only greater threats. Looking at oil as raw materials being processed, it's actually a mixture of hydrocarbons. Within that mixture is also a certain percentage of the sulphur or sulphur compounds that move, somewhere in percentages of 0.1 to 6%. Of course everything would be much, much better, I'm not going to say ideally because it's always oil and oil processing that has its threats to, for example. This sulphur content is somewhere below 1% but unfortunately in this particular case of oil being processed or reprocessed until recently, we see that it is currently a stalemate but it does not mean that it will not move on there is a high share of sulfur that is so-called. acidic oil and it's like this is actually very toxic, it's very explosive, it affects the pipelines it's passing by, it's corrosive and it poses a latent danger in any part of it. Now, let's not only talk about the Bosnian Ship refinery but we can also say about the oil pipelines that transport this oil to non-Croatian processors, everyone has an external one. Also, this sulphur causes possible harassing and threats that come with it. The law on the oil and petroleum products market, which was last revised in 2017, lays down rules and rules for the transport of oil and petroleum products, as well as for storage and all related processes. Transport and storage of crude oil with high sulphur content may occur in different transport forms, may be via truck transport, trains, pipelines, vessels. But what's very problematic is that we had a situation with us when we were supposed to transport crude oil, remember that the biggest issue was the threat during transport to avoid an oil explosion. We simply who, perhaps speaking on behalf of ordinary people, do not recognize oil that, raw as raw, or its danger as explosive and can endanger the population and area where it happens. But here's the example that we had in the U.S. and Canada one piece of information in Canada, for example. In 2013, there was an explosion where 47 people were killed and the town centre in Quebec remained well burned. Therefore, there is a very serious danger, and that is why this bill is also going to prevent the transport of oil through the JANAF system, pipelines and other transport forms of oil that has more than 1%. What is also important to say that it does not only have a possible impact on the environment of such a decision but also has an economic impact, the processing of oil with a high share of sulphur is very demanding and economically often invaluable, and then we also have a situation that states such as BiH that do not have a stable political authority, in which very low standards of environmental protection, allow for precisely this kind of processing, where we have a refinery that is extremely technically backward and processes one of the most difficult oil. And in that it's no wonder what's going on in Slavonski Brod, I would say that what people may sense by smell or appearance, in reality is even the slightest danger, the sulfurconductor that comes together and the numerous sulfur compounds that are actually invisible are even more harmful than this eye is visible. Even small amounts of sulfur, they can pose a significant health risk, not only for those who may live in the environment, but also for those who work with such oil and therefore, it is a threat and for the worker has been proven that such oil can change the use of oxygen in the organism and affect the central nervous system. Therefore, very low levels can be lethal. It's all dangers that come with, primarily, oil that has a high share of sulfur, and then it's further enhanced with the processing of such oil. With us in the Republic of Croatia a pipeline system has been built, we recognize it called JANAF, it stretches through... The Republic of Serbia, one leg leads to BiH, continues towards other countries, and it transports oil from Omisalj terminal, and Janaf himself, he currently has technical conditions that determine the maximum level of sulphur content, currently 2.8%, has a certain norm according to which it is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if you're wondering why we're going with the initiative that after they set that standard in 2003, now we're going to suddenly reduce it? I'm going to say, we're not innovative, so it's not something Most Independent Lists designed, so now we're going to test it, but we have this practice in other countries that just for these reasons have limited the maximum amount of sulphur in crude oil. 2.8%, I said it could be of 0.5-6%, then imagine just what kind of oil that even with these technical conditions crossing, they're very aggressive and would affect the pipeline itself, it's not that the pipeline's technical wonder, so that it's eternal, its maintenance demanding, construction, and often it's haemaria, it's that you could follow through the past periods where it comes, when it's that there's an oil leak, it's not that it's just the pressure that creates the strain of that pipeline, but it's also exactly corrosion's biggest enemy, and brimstone is and its compounds are the biggest causes of corrosion itself. Despite Janaf’s relatively sound performance, we do not have such frequent threats, have certain standards, it is precisely due to the irresponsibility of those who process such an oil need to regulate this area legally. There was already one SDP initiative that went with the proposal that, as the secretary of state said, was very similar, however, it was only limited to the transport of the pipeline, and we see that the intention of the owner of the INA MOL, one of the owners was to transport oil from Sisak to Rijeka, that it was going by train cars, so you saw how demanding the operation was when they too dared not to transport it, and the experts emphasized exactly the component for it to be able to get into the habitual transport by such means. This bill was significantly improved in relation to the SDP initiative and we went very closely to address all aspects of oil transport and to clarify whether the government had previously made remarks on this proposal which, we could say, differ significantly from what we are now, was it before, that the Government had called on it that it was not an acceptable model, which would not be covered by everything, so it was going on precisely to work out, to further work out, and now we have solved this problem, all forms of transport are included and there are no restrictions that would be, which would violate international standards. We also got the government's testimony on this bill, of course the government, says it wasn't that, it wasn't good enough, and this isn't right now that there's no objection, we're having some technical difficulties with our proposal, but it's called that JANAF, they've set the normative 2.8% and that's that, they're government in the state. If we're proposing 1%, and JANAF has set 2.8%, then we have a problem if the government has written JANAF has set it differently. So, the majority-owned company of the Republic of Croatia is above government. I'm a little bit illogical about this clarification where it says, here we are, but there's a standard that's been going on since 2003, it's survived all possible governments, it's survived the changes to the law on the oil market that were, it seems to me it's a super standard, because what we're proposing would actually be just an additional clarification and a very good way that JANAF can also say to users, here we have a legal limit which is one of the higher standards that you need to respect, and then we wouldn't be able to try to transport through JANAF oil that has such high amounts of sulphur, but we'd stay in the oil that within 1% can be processed. We see that under the conditions, when the refineries we have are not the most technologically advanced, it would ensure such survival and significantly lower costs. It is known that the whole INA situation and the debates that were about economic justification, but the oil processing itself, it is always economically justified if you have a modern facility. If we had achieved, over the past time, the situation that MOL as a strategic partner had invested in both refineries, that they were technologically advanced and invested in them, then, this oil, which is being processed, and one and a long refinery would probably have its place on the market. But like this, we brought in after years of non-investment, that the refineries show negative results. And no wonder, deliver oil like this with a high amount of sulfur, to such a refinery, and then it needs to be processed. Of course it creates significant costs, because we see that one refinery closes with the blessing of the government, another refinery, and the government is not sure if it will come to modernization, there are always some obstacles. Well we just had, we didn't give a single refinery that was in the HDZ campaign, then after that we had at the beginning of the mandate, okay, maybe if something changed, then some other production, to be in Sisak, but to solve the modernisation of the Rijeka refinery. I've read recently, too, that MOL has a problem with investing in Rijeka. It seems to me that by the end of this government's term, we will have a situation, that they will be in agreement and that no refinery in Rijeka is needed. But then, for whom we actually transport, that oil, that why we even deal with it. Just to make money on the oil transport, which then, through its processing, will pollute us. Here's where I might have added a little bit, if we weren't too sacred, because as much as we have a problem with nuclear waste disposal, from Krško nuclear power plant, so here and there's a lot of communication, trying to find some solution that's not cheap, so here somehow I get the impression that what polluts the Slavonski Brod area, which residents, have problems there, health issues primarily in nature, is not such a problem. It may be achieved that this gas pipeline will reach that plant, so it will heat up a little bit there, but it is forgotten that it is not only in the heat source, but it is also in what is happening through the entire refinery pipelines, there will continue to flow the same crude oil, with high amounts of sulphur and it will continue to release numerous compounds, which will continue to go into the atmosphere and will measure in Slavonski Brod and affect the health of our citizens. Then how will the government explain, well, we've gassed the refinery in the Bosnian ship. What are we gonna say after that? Then we're really going to have to say, like, are you going to invest in modernising the Russian refinery or are you going to be left with a political project that you're trying to manage the region on? Somehow, we felt that this management was limited to the BIH, so maybe there's a Serb entity there and there's a Serbian jurisdiction, because we see that it's talking last now about Venezuela, it's being talked about competent areas, geographical areas, where some of the great forces have their own influence, and it seems to me that we're slowly out of one jurisdiction, now we're moving into some other jurisdiction and what we're only concerned about in these games is actually the health of our people, and what can we do? This bill, which would reduce the sulphur limit values from 2.8% to 1% and would change these and technical conditions, would actually be something that would certainly improve the situation in this area and I don't see, so that all of this would be contrary to the Energy Charter contract, is stated which obligations we are taking, so we need to ensure free passage of energy matter, regardless of their origin, destination or ownership, free pass of energy, without imposing some unreasonable tensions, restrictions, fees, but let's ask ourselves, what to for example. Hungary says we would translate nuclear material, radioactive material through the Republic of Croatia. They'd say that, but let's not say it's energy, right with energy, let it pass, we have an international charter, we signed a contract, so why do I stress this, this clarification that the government sent was signed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, in order to break the charter, and then I would ask him if we could also transplant radioactive material and we wouldn't even blink. It can happen, it doesn't have to happen, it doesn't have to happen, it's an energy that needs to be passed, and we don't seem to be acting unsurpassedly that we have such an explanation given by the government. It seems to me that it's just a form, how to give an explanation that what doesn't happen, not that we have a solution to the problem. Still, here, the ship requires decisive action. Some Russians helped us, so they said we'd stop the plant, do something there, we'll see from all of it. Maybe the brains came up, too, and they said that loss, which is growing, I don't know how much the secretary of state, probably better has information, it's measured in hundreds of millions of dollars, the loss that's accumulated there. And maybe it got a little boring, so they'll say, "That doesn't make any sense anymore." Then we'll take a break. I'd love it if it did, right in front of the proposer I'd say, let's take this proposal back, satisfied everyone won't be doing the refinery anymore, so maybe we could say go transport but what would we be? We would be hypocritical, hypocritical, because such oil would be processed somewhere further, endangering people from some other countries who might not have any proponents of such a law or government who would want to support it, or perhaps be aware of the dangers that occur. The main question is what is the economic aspect of this proposal from the budget, we will probably agree that nothing is sought, the budget has nothing to do with this relationship, we may have certain contractual obligations that Janaf has, but if there is a law MOL and JANAF can only say it is not up to us. Because if we were to observe economic relations in a way that Janaf changes one side, then his users could say that and that but we have a certain contract, we're going to have economic damage. In this way JANAF will have a bill, he will say with that law I am sorry but it is the law behind which the Croatian government is, we simply cannot pass the law. Or if we say no to what, exactly because of what might be a potential loss to JANAF, let's not pass the law. We're setting up again where this Janaf is, above the government. So once again I appeal to this, let's not raise something that is primarily political decision-making to be beneath some economic interest. Because if we look at economic interests, then big economic forces will run all over Croatia and do whatever they want. And why is there a question now and I don't know about state land and ownership of Agrokora or a new Forten group why it's so problematic. So nobody argues it's a Croatian company because it has its head office in the Republic of Croatia. But what creates primarily one problem, which is what will be the future intensity of investment, which will be the level of employment, which will be happening with us, whether or not that profit that would come from what we have is going to be spilling our potential somewhere out there. And then we're ready to close one refinery, another possible threat that won't even work fully because it won't be modernised. And that's what we're fighting political battles with. But do not touch JANAF let them transport to a Bosnian ship or Pančeva oil to which we do not only have economic gains from it but we also have a threat and a threat to Croatian citizens. And all those great appeals that were so far would have been significantly disintegrated only if in the past time there had been such changes to the law if any oil could be processed, you would see that Russian interest gone. And in order for them to look for some modality of transport of oil to other routes, it is very uncertain if through the Republic of Croatia it is limited by pipelines, also by highway or by rail transport, then very, very difficult to get to the Bosnian Ship oil some other way and would generate significantly higher costs and rentability would not even satisfy these political frameworks that can sometimes swallow such huge losses with which one refinery such as the Bosnian Ship is located but it is Russian national interest. I'd like to say from all this stuff that I've made so far that I don't have much longer and I've been talking for a long time, I'd say to see that the interests of the great powers, they have a significant impact on lawmaking. This is one of the laws that whoever professionally handled this topic said that it would definitely contribute to reducing pollution but you're not going to push it through, boys and girls, is there us in MOST and each other, says you simply wouldn't push it through, so it says that if you were in power, the question is whether you could push it through. So I say it's challenging to ask that question, the secretary of state will probably refer but we became a zone of Russian influence if we limited this to create a number of problems in many areas in the Republic of Croatia. But here, if we can put pressure on this every day, by ruling it out, and at the vote, it's probably going to vote, so it's going to be against this proposal, but on us who are the opposition, it's up to us to warn, to send in a procedure like this, to fight for what not only is this not politicizing, this is really one of the solutions. And hopefully once this government is gone, we'll be able to put this proposal back on the agenda and adopt it, hopefully then we'll have support from those who will now be against it, that it will give us support so that we can push through the difficulties that will arise with the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140458	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140459	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, you have been a Minister of Energy in your time, and I think you have studied this issue, and you have probably come to the realization that interstate resolution, so let's see by system what we will do together, etc., has simply come to an end without results. So what you're saying is there's still some chance of something being done in such an agreement, or this is one solution that is quick and simple, and in accordance with both the Constitution and the international legislation, this can be done. and longer. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140460	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140461	Dear colleague, we were ministers one by one, what we found in the first part of the term of office when I was minister, was actually a promise, there would be this modernisation. Let's see when this modernization will be, but only the time has shown that Russian owners, they do not take any single action to improve it, but also when you have taken over energy, as you have tried with the interstate commission and that the talks are done, but there is a political obstacle and then it is seen that in these agreements that should be interstate, also these certain economic speeches that should be between the owners and, for example,. The country that is at risk, primarily politics stands. And finally, if we can't handle it in normal, rational human ways, then we're going in such a political decision, I think we're on a good track.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140462	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140463	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Panenić's. Me and me... to support this proposal, which you have referred to in the procedure for citizens of Slavonski Brod and the wider surrounding area, because we have entered, in 10 years, how citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding areas breathe in the polluted air of other quality, and most of all the sulfur, sulfur dioxide and particles PM 2.5 and 10. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the measuring stations found the largest contaminant is the Bosnian Ship refinery. And for those who do not know, they are still working according to the standards of the former Yugoslavia. They promised, even I think it's signed that they'll modernise their facility over the next five years, but unfortunately, it's still not going to happen. And this proposal of yours goes after them to get them to modernise the facility so they don't have any oil coming in with a big share of sulfur. There are experiences from other countries that have done this. Why doesn't Croatia do so? Is the profit of Janaf more important or the quality of life for our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140464	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140465	Well, I believe that, ask the citizens of Slavonski Brod, that they would already shut down that refinery themselves because what they were waiting for politics, they probably spent all the trust they had in us. Now, with this proposal, which is one of the reasonable proposals, which doesn't really go into whether or not they'll modernise the refinery because we see that it's difficult to solve across the border, but we're actually getting into what we can control. You can't get oil that in your poor refinery will reverse our lives, the lives of citizens in the Slavonski Brod area. I hope, here, that the citizens will understand the good intentions that we have, and also, realize that this government, it has no intention of solving it and we will see in future time what is actually going to be done. I hope, primarily, that citizens will show their voices what they believe in, which is in a better life this way with such a polluted air there is no safer life with this policy either.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140466	The next replica of the respected representative, Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140467	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic. On behalf of the party We change Croatia I support this proposal because it is reasonable, because it is in favour of all our citizens, so, protection of human health, it is the most important task, especially us here in Parliament, HS, and this is especially seen in the example of the citizens of Slavonski Brod. You've made an interesting claim. That the internal regulation of Janaf, which is a monopolies, is the only one transporting oil, means from Omis towards the Serbian border and across Croatia, that he has more importance, means executive power than the law that would be passed here. You were the minister and the economy, why certain individuals now or this government simply listens and respects other people's interests, and at least it introduced a special environmental tax on oil that has more sulphur And she obviously didn't do anything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Why do you think they do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140468	The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140469	Dear colleague Lovrinović. I just passed on what the government said. So that's not what I said, it's not the thesis, but it's simply written here, they're calling on the Adriatic Oil Company, which has brought technical conditions. So the government is referring to the technical conditions of a company. I mean, me, it was just hard for me to look at it to accept that the position of the company is actually a rule for the government, probably a minister, he's full of respect and probably asked for an opinion here, they said, don't ever support it because we have our internal rule that's 2.8% and we've been consistent with it since 2003, the world has stood on it, so no more changes, there's no modern age. The Germans, they limit cars that have high rates of pollution, but we haven't been able to change since 2003 for any prominence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140470	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia, a respected state secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Ivo Milatic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs. The government is proposing to HS not to accept that bill. In fact, what has been repeatedly pointed out since 2003 is that since 2003 there have been rules and technical conditions in Janaf that have not changed all that time, regardless of what the governments have changed, changed the laws on oil and oil products and the basis of these technical conditions, Janaf operates and they have been in line with our neighbours, all those in the neighbourhood who end up using Janaf also have such technical conditions and Janaf must, it is important to stress that the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Decisions on the declaration of the Energy Charter Treaty commits the Republic of Croatia to the free passage of energy materials regardless of their origin, destination or ownership, free pass of energy without imposing any unreasonable straines, restrictions and charges. It is also important to point out that the proposed amendments to the law and the reduction of the sulphur limit from 2.8% to 1% would change clear and technical conditions, or we, would have to reject so far the users, which would be contrary to that Charter. We believe that air pollution from a stationary source, as the applicant states, cannot be subdued or resolved by technical conditions or by reducing the limit value of sulphur content. So the greenhouse gas emissions from the refinery depend not only on the type of oil, but much more on the technological technical characteristics of the refinery. The example that you have stated here is that, let's say, in one Germany, this cannot happen, because, in all of Germany, all the neighbours and surrounding countries are in the EU and it is known long ago that this oil can not be processed or that the fuel that is placed on the market must be thick below 1% of the sulphur, it has been brought in for several years, we know that it is slowly abolished and fuel on the mast for ships and that diesel will have to use ships, which later indirectly leads them to refer to LNG, but the fact is next, we find ourselves in a situation that we have JANAF which is important, one of the most important Croatian companies that absolutely achieves a significant part of their income with their current connections and contracts, and it would be quite brave now to say all this in a way to break up problems and then the damage and for JANAF and everything else. We in the Government appreciate and know what problems are in Slavonski Brod and the maximum efforts we make on this subject, from attempts at gasification, bilateral and various conversations, we think that this is the way, that we simply need to force the neighbor to get rid of it technologically, not in this way. Therefore, the amendments to the law in question would also reflect the rise in retail prices of oil and oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia, but would clearly and jeopardise the business of JANAF as I have already said. So, following all this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the proposal in the proposed form, and proposes HS not to accept the proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products of the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140472	Thank you very much. You have three replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140473	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, you have cited as the main reason why this legislative proposal is not acceptable because the Republic of Croatia has accepted this Energy Charter and, therefore, is obliged to ensure the free passage of energy without imposing any unreasonable tightenings, restrictions and charges. Do you really think that regulation of the quality of oil that is still in the facility as it is in the Ship, where we are at one border, therefore, the EU and the rest, in an opportunity, we are in a position to regulate or influence the quality of air. So it's all just an unreasonable tightening, do you really think that qualification is okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140474	Thank you. Mr. Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140475	I'm going back to what we also wrote in the explanation, and now you're not quoting it, you're quoting what you're quoting. We have clearly said that the solution in the plant is in the refinery, not in the transport of oil, and we stand there. So, we can't say that this is the only possible solution in your opinion, the right solution is to process the oil in the way it should, according to the ecological standards, and to transport the oil that's being transported, which is common to transport, when it comes to the Adriatic pipeline and all its users who haven't been there since yesterday, but who have been there for many years and we can't change it, it's not like you're going to say to a gas station now you're going to be filling someone, so someone you're not going to, the Adriatic pipeline is one situation that's been defined for decades and it's not so simple by the state to make such moves that you're ultimately not guarantee a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140476	Time. Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140477	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, you say this is not a solution, or it wouldn't ultimately be a solution just to reduce the share of sulfur in oil, it needs modernization of refineries, they need, you said, and a new energy for production, it's promised that there will be gasification, but none of it. So here's because of the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the wider surroundings, say what is being done if this is not a solution, in which way it will be resolved because it has been going on for 10 years.? You said that, international negotiations and pressures, but why don't we look for a partner to initiate and change that charter because there's an oil pipeline in Serbia that restricts oil transport with more than 1% of sulfur, is that correct, do you know that? Why can't we just have a conversation about it? I know you can't just do that, but find your partners, we'll put pressure on you because this isn't unreasonable, this is reasonable and because of the quality of life of citizens in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140478	Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140479	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlaovic, we, as you yourself have said, are making every effort to make modernization, to make a move in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Brod bilateral talks, clear that the threat of Slavonski Brod has been reduced indirectly and we will continue to do so on a continuous basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140480	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. My sweetheart Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140481	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, dear Secretary of State, you said in your introduction that the problem will not only be solved if we prohibit the transport of such dirty oil, we can solve the problem of course if we change the technology in the refinery, it is very difficult as it is found we know in another country and even in Republika Srpska gasification will, of course, halved the mission of harmful gases and the citizens of Slavonski Brod are of course expecting this problem to be resolved quickly, it takes too long. If we could even solve it by closing the pipeline, they'd bring in oil... some other way and of course she wouldn't be cleaner than she is now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we need to insist on gasification and change of technology in the Bosnian Ship refinery because it's the only way that citizens of the Slavonic Ship can have clean air.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140482	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140483	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, it's true, simple change in technology, the question is whether or not it's important because I can absolutely agree with you to ban and limit it, it's not excluded that raw oil will not come in other ways and we still have the same problem that we have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140484	And in the end, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140485	Mr. Secretary of State, you just said you couldn't do that. You see, there are two reasons why you can't, one is if you don't know and the other is if someone's putting pressure on you or the government not to do it. I think it's a different matter first of all, but I'm ordering the citizens of Slavonski Brod to finally open their eyes to realize that they will never stop their asphyxiation and increase their health while people in power are the same as they are for years and here I have to tell a sad truth. It is you who poison you, who are poisoned by this air, that at least you go out to the election of gentlemen, dear citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area. Go to the election at last, we'll solve it, we'll give the ultimatum a year to change the way the refinery works or the pipe needs to be closed, there's plenty more to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140486	Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140487	Dear Representative Lovrinović, when we said we couldn't, it means that we've seen all the causes, the consequences, the damage, means that we've reasonably approached the problem, we haven't said, we're under any pressure, we're not doing any pre-election campaign, we're acting as responsible and reasonable as any government has to act because we're here, we're not representing any party, we're representing the government here, and I'm not giving a political speech here on behalf of any party like you do regularly, but I'm representing the interests of the government and these are now the concrete interests of the government translated into our opinion that the government has adopted, we can't support this law and we're doing everything we've all said here together and we'll continue to do the problem of pollinating Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140488	Thank you very much, let's move on. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Slaven Dobrović in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140489	Thank you very much. I welcome all present, of course, and all those who follow us. So maybe we could start by asking how much the clean environment really is worth? Are we aware of that, are humans aware of the value of clean air, water, soil? In fact, I think the answer is that we are not aware and that people become more aware of the value of the clean environment, the moment when they are deprived of the clean environment and it is already enough that they do not have clean air, and that is why you need to understand the situation of people in Slavonski Brod and the surroundings that are actually under permanent life frustration in the midst of bad air, so the air that simply makes you notice that something is wrong. I think we should all have feelings for it and if we had all the feelings for it then we'd get ready to do something. Where, how, where, where. Here I was also the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection and before that and the environment, so from 2016 until the end of April 2017, I knew this problem. I learned very quickly how the problem lasts then for 7, 8 years, today it will be a full 10 years, as the interstate commission is drawn up between the two countries, it is Republika Srpska on behalf of the southern neighbour in which the facility and the Republic of Croatia are, of course, the main problem. The path of resolution is defined and that gasification that is as follows, so it stopped, of course, the reconstruction of the entire refinery because this refinery stopped from development in some time ago and such a refinery with these technical solutions does not correspond to today's time or degree of development. Therefore, as such, it could not work in either Croatia or other EU countries because as a society and as a system, we have developed a social system in which it is not allowed because it is an unnatural, unwanted social phenomenon that someone is terrorizing someone with bad air. It's been going on there for over 10 years. And I think that the state commission has shown that the delay, so now, so, with all the patience of the Croatian side, with all the patience of the citizens who are exposed to it, has definitely come to the conclusion, even if we hear from the government's representative that this is still happening, that there will be no great benefit from it, because there is a little broader story, so the ESPO Convention inter-border pollution, so it is better said something that does not play here because of course BiH is not a country that is a signator, and that is probably going to become one day, we would all want to, not only for Croatia but also for the sake of the citizens of BiH. But what until this happens, because we hear the secretary of state, he reiterates, is best to reconstruct, so invest millions of euros in a refinery that is hard to operate anyway, which is there in special circumstances, political, geostrategic circumstances anyway, and that there he talks about investing in a facility that should remove sulphur from the gas that is released into the atmosphere in various ways from that refinery facility simply won't walk. And that's why I think it's really necessary to reach out to the higher solutions then. And higher solutions are ultimately offered in the Constitution. I'll be right here, so you don't misquote because I'm not some constitutional expert, but nice in Article 50. The constitution states that entrepreneurial freedom and ownership rights can be severely restricted by law in order to protect the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health. I think the human environment and human health are already clearly and documentedly endangered. Because there are measurement stations that have been set up there, there are already entire studies that went after it to define the area of responsibility. And definitely, in this statisticalally rather benevolent way, the refinery remains the main problem. Because the question of boiler rooms and traffic, of course there are a whole range of other cities in Slavonia that are in similar conditions and traffic and boiler rooms, so there we don't know about the case, in Slavonski Brod we know very well. It was therefore the second paragraph of Article 50. And we also have an article in 70 that says nicely everyone has the right to a healthy life. The state provides conditions for a healthy life, i.e. the environment, each of which is obliged as part of its powers and activities to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature and the human environment. This is really nice in the article 70. And now that we come and draw a line on everything that has been done so far in Slavonski Brod and what seems to be and systematically this activity is taking place, commission, talks, gasification, this or that, then definitely the situation has matured that Croatia can go degree above. And they are not the technical regulations of the JANAF, or that of the Adriatic oil pipeline company above the law. All right, they have their own standards, they do business, they take care of business, it's theirs. However, now comes the national parliament, the promoter, the debate, and it is said, we are passing a law that we are trying to achieve here's what is written in these two articles of the Constitution which are not satisfied with the present organisation of things. Nor is there any indication, here I do not see any indication that anything will change at some reasonable time because all deadlines have been exceeded, because the environmental permits they have issued according to their standards to which we have exerted great pressure, which was still in the autumn of 2016, they have issued a new one anyway. So they think they're going to go on like that and of course what it costs them to hold a dialogue with us through the interstate commission, meet and it's always taking a month, two, three, the wind blows, and a little less sense of smell from the refinery, and then there's bad periods, so this, well, we're going to somehow survive it. And we do business further, we do business like that, I'm talking about them not creating new costs, not investment or drive and doing what they do under these conditions, of course, causing great damage to the environment. It's actually an external cost, a cost that's not included in their accounting, and they're the cause of that cost. It is a matter of the health of all the sick, a question at the end of what is particularly intensely deposited because people, except other circumstances, are now being stimulated by a concrete smell that they have no hope of disappearing, and then leaving the area. So, all of it is very mature, so it's very mature to pass a law like this and to regulate this area, and JANAF is only there to accept it and it's an excuse for them, whether the grace period is enough 6 months or 8, 10, it can be discussed, that no contracts, orders, I don't know what, reserves or how they do, endangered, and the other thing is, therefore, new circumstances, imposed on them, we impose on them, therefore, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic that they must follow. Therefore, the argument that from that provision that the free flow of energy must be provided without imposing any unreasonable and inconsistencies, this attribute has not been reached here. So, this law defined restriction is not unreasonable or should go to Slavonski Brod, so spend a few days, so see if it's unreasonable, little see their statistics health and many other statistics. So, it's not unreasonable, it's very reasonable and justifiable, it's actually necessary and necessary because the Republic of Croatia has exhausted a lot of what it could have done and, of course, it's open to change and the law if they change something, something can, however, they have to change something urgently. Here, so much, therefore, we believe that this legislative proposal is good and only possible which can be provided in short time to the citizens of Slavonski Brod, and this is even true for everyone in this circle and for the citizens of neighbouring BiH who are no less dear to us, so people should be given a clean environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140490	Thank you, too. Mr Tomislav Panenić will speak on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140491	Thank you very much. It's just the words of fellow Dobrovic, I'd like to point out, here's some data, always people are actually wondering what kind of oil is coming in, if we were to say, I don't know, oil coming in from the Azerian area or the Arab area, its sulphur stakes are significantly below 1%, somewhere it's about 0.10 to 0.30 spinning, then we have Russian oil, here's one information 1.5% sulphur, then we have domestic oil that's measured 0.36, I'm now saying one thing, but it's relevant, there's spinning. Studies done to modernise the refinery of the river, so the whole requirement is actually based on the share of sulphur, it's about the share of sulphur as a key element affecting that a certain refinery at one point cannot produce enough quality derivatives. We're now talking about the slow oil supply, especially here in the Republic of Croatia, today we're talking about how we're draining less oil, but also in other areas, at the beginning of oil extraction, we're primarily looking at this quality of oil, how the supplies are dropping on the drain, so there's more and more of the weight of oil with larger amounts of sulphur, which is harder to process, and of course, that oil has a much lower price of being affected by technological processes, and who are you going to sell to oil that has a problem? So you're going to sell to those where you can get through, here's the secretary of state himself said, you won't get through to the Germans when their technological processes require oil very high-quality oil and there are strict restrictions. I ask you why we became a region where such oil can pass? Why, in fact, not only us as the Republic of Croatia, but this entire environment in which we live allows us to experience such a situation as in the Bosnian Ship and then the next is where these derivatives that come into existence in the Bosnian Ship go away, how they spend and they further pollute. So it's one cycle that closes, but exactly the intensity of modernization of the river refinery is based on how it can process oil actually extract as much sulphur as possible, extract it into some other by-products and reduce the share of fuel that comes into the market, that consumes motor vehicles and that in the end, in fact, the combustion in motor vehicles would pollute the environment. Very quickly we will set exactly those certain standards that will be more restrictive, so we will require derivatives with very low sulphur content if it is diesel and other oil products and then we will say okay, whether we vote today or not, we are actually discussing today, there will be a vote next week, but whatever you take, here I am primarily speaking to the ruling ones, very soon you will bring yourself restrictions that will affect that no one will be able to process the oil that has more than 1% of the share of food will not be able to create products that meet modern conditions. This oil, it will, with our intention not to change anything, endanger the lives of people in BiH, because it will be sold there mostly and what is only sad that unfortunately we can't protect our citizens from this production, by products that, in fact, harmful substances that go into the atmosphere and go to our area, but I say, let's not look only at what we, to protect ourselves, but be aware of and in this BiH lives in the same way as Croats who we should be the support, if we look at already national, so it's not that BiH state where we don't have national interests, we have national interests, we protect, how we protect Croats in the Republic, we will also protect not only Croats in BiH, but also other peoples who live there. But let's be ourselves who will be advanced and say the same that the government in the Republic of BiH, primarily in Republika Srpska, is too corrupt to resist, and we can handle it. We are still a country that has much more standards, we are a member of the EU and such positive legal solutions can affect lives, not only in our country, but in the environment in which we live. If it didn't turn out that we're hypocritical, so we're buying, I don't know, electricity from the Stanari thermal power plant, and it's very bad with technology, it's actually polluting life in our immediate vicinity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140492	Thank you very much. It will now. And we have one replica, yes, Mr. Dobrović, I've seen you, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140493	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Panenic. So, from specific markets comes this oil and it's clear that bad oil has a low price. And that we actually need to be very skilled and find out who we could sell such oil to, and now, here we are, on one border, practically two worlds, and we've been doing nothing for 10 years and we've been playing, so the talks, and the oil is coming, it's being processed, of course it's not just a matter of this primary pollution, but secondaryly, as you mentioned from these derivatives, they're definitely worse. Now, which is, therefore, not yet solved the sulphur problem, today was the representative of the EU Commission's director one and is talking about low carbon society. CO2. And here's the sulfur. I don't understand. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140494	Now, there will be an answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140495	Dear colleague, well enough to be a little and geopolitically precise, it's oil coming from Russia and it's also called... , it is primarily recognised in the oil market with a high share of sulphur and that is oil which is both economically and environmentally problematic, but we see that Russia's impact unfortunately is growing more strategically and is increasingly affecting many countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we're doing is actually fighting, it kind of seems like Goliath, let's stop something here that's very unpopular. Because being good with Russia today is, it seems to me one trend and all governments comply to be under Russian influence or to be a user, as well as theirs, I will say at this point, energy, is a matter of geostrategics. This way we would actually shut them off from our market and I'm afraid we don't have any support here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140496	Thank you. And now really, Mr. Damir Felak will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140497	Mr. President-in-Office of HS, D.A. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I could count you by the name and last name you're here today, but I won't. So, we're talking about the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, which was addressed in the debate by the Association of Independent Lists of Representatives, and this law aims to reduce the limit values of sulphur in oil transported through the Republic of Croatia. A reduction from 2.8 to 1 and less is required which, according to the Most, would lead to better air quality, and thus also to health quality and health and quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who live near the refinery that process such oil. This primarily refers to the issue of air pollution in the Slavonski Brod area, due to the work of the Bosnian Brod oil refinery, in neighbouring BiH, which releases excessive emissions of harmful substances into the air. Air pollution from stationary sources, such as refineries, as the applicant states, cannot be resolved by changing technical conditions, i.e. reducing the limit value of sulphur content in processing oil. The greenhouse gas emissions from the refinery depend not only on the type of oil, but much more on the technological and technical characteristics of the refinery, and this factor cannot be affected by the changes of this law. International Contracts No. In accordance with the Decisions declaring the Law on the Confirmation of the Energy Charter Treaty, the Republic of Croatia undertakes to free passage of energy materials regardless of their origin, destination or ownership of the free pass of energy without imposing any unreasonable tightening, restrictions and charges. The proposed amendments to the law and the reduction of the sulphur limit from 2.8% to 1% would change the technical conditions, i.e. the users so far would have to be rejected, which would be contrary to the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the Energy Charter Treaty. In 2003, the commercial company Janaf adopted technical conditions for access to the transport and storage facilities of Janaf, as well as for today's technical requirements and standards. As part of the international energy transport network in its business, Janaf shall apply technical conditions which are mandatory for Janaf and for all other users. Janaf accepts the transport of each oil whose characteristics do not exceed the sulphur content limits of a maximum of 2.8. Janaf may refuse to transport oil which does not meet those technical conditions, but also store any oil whose characteristics could be harmful to other oil being transported or could cause damage to installations. In one word, the Republic of Croatia through Janaf is obliged to respect international agreements. I also point out once again that even if we changed this law as proposed by the Proposer, we would not achieve the purpose we want, which is to reduce the air pollution from the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, which is transferred by air to Slavonski Brod, but we must also acknowledge that air pollution and damage are being done to the citizens of BiH themselves living in the area. So it's important to change the technology in that refinery or the refinery to close. Whether it will change or be energetic, whether gasification will take place, should insist on changing technology, higher standards, there I absolutely agree with everything the promoters have said, and ultimately, the government's representative said. But it is not so simple to do just by changing this law, if we even did it, but I say we would violate most international standards, which would certainly have consequences for JANAF, and then eventually also for the Republic of Croatia. So, you need to change, insist on changing technology or changing energy, on which the government of the Republic of Croatia is constantly working, it's not easy, you said it yourself, you think it could be done, the government's representative already said it's not going so fast, but I'm also personally on the verge of working on it and making as much use of as possible to international channels and silent diplomacy that simply refinery in the Bosnian Ship is modernized and that it does not release such harmful emissions, harmful emissions into the air. Mr. Dobrović has also called for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia here and can fully agree with it, only unfortunately the RH system, as the name says is not valid for the Republic of Croatia, does not apply to BiH, and it has different, obviously, laws and standards, and the refinery is located in the Bosnian Ship, I say, in another country. By preventing oil flows if we decided to make such changes to the law, it would not prevent the refinery itself from supplying oil to some other streams. So, it's not necessary, this is probably their cheapest, but it's not necessary for oil to be supplied to a refinery in the Bosnian Ship via JANAF, it can be delivered in other ways and across other countries, so it bypasses the Republic of Croatia. So I don't think that the changes to this law would achieve what we want, whether this law is directed only from these really, I'm experiencing, good intentions to help residents who live near the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, first of all, Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area, and I think, at the heart and desire to achieve it or this, the proposal of this law may have other implications, and we heard here today not to vote for those who don't, but first of all, vote for us, so it is clear that the pre-election campaign for future elections for the European Parliament is under way, so this law is also used in my humble opinion and for that purpose, but first of all, I think that the intention of the one who proposed the law is good, but the way in which it is intended to achieve, is not a change of this law, and therefore, the HDZ Club will not support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140498	Thank you, too. Now let's go, we have individual discussions, Mr Tomislav Panenic, please. Yes, individual individual [[/Intruder: Individual?]] individual [[Intruder: Individual debate?]] Well, it might come from here, but... [[Oh, I'm sorry, here we go.]] It used to be all the time to tell, you know, when there weren't any microphones, and I remember that... [[/Intruder: No, no, I'd like to be individually.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140499	Okay, thank you very much, Vice President. I'd just look back at my colleague Felak, he said now that this law is for the purpose of an election campaign. First, two reasons why not. The first time we sent this law in the debate has already been a long, long, long time, now somehow it has come at this time, therefore, the rulings could also decide to be after these elections for the EU Parliament and probably nothing significant would have happened, they will vote against what is, therefore, why you put it at the time of the election campaign. Secondly, we discussed today, me and Tomislav Panenic and counterpart Slaven Dobrovic on the subject, neither I nor he are on the list of candidates for the European Parliament. So, if we had some more attractive subject, then probably those who were candidates for the European Parliament would have had some other topic, or maybe they would have discussed it, we could have put them as proposings, but you see that we didn't, this is the topic that, here and Slaven are pulling her out of the mandate when we were looking for solutions, and this was exactly one of the initiatives and Secretary of State Ante Chikotić when we got into it, but here was no longer the time to make a solution that would be acceptable then, and then we came actually now with those conclusions, but also the idea of 1% of time, you can look at it, have media articles from, in the end, actually, no, there from 2017. So nothing was done for the election. Secondly, what is said in the debate before me is that oil itself, if we reduce, does not mean that we solved all the problems, but we also listened from the government when we gassed it, all the problems will be solved. If the Russians hadn't stopped the plant for their known reasons, we could've cooked it up about it and solar panels, it would've probably also been polluted, it would've been a little less, we agree, there's a little less gasification, something less oil, something less modernized, but all three in sum are much more than what the standards of living people who live there are. Therefore, all efforts to invest, find all the methods that can be found, one of these, the secretary of state has said there, trying, working towards the Russians, communicating, investing, modernising, they don't do it, they don't keep doing it, they've taken over the refinery for years, they've promised the authorities in Republika Srpska they'll do the modernization, it's not happening, this refinery's going to go down, so the obvious collapse and simply there the owners are not aware that in this way one day they'll actually have a problem that we would have with any kind of facility, and that's going to have to remove it, who's going to take those costs, or the Russians will just pick up the rags and go away, and then they'll stay polluted the ground and everything around it that someone has to resusply, are huge costs. And that's why everyone here has some interest. It is also likely for all the authorities in Republika Srpska to continue to do so, to have employees but also to be sustainable but also to love some support and financial and geopolitical support of the tana that happens in the implementation of certain policies, and then all ultimately sacrifice the inhabitants, they sacrificed their own and we did not act in all the ways that we can, we sacrifice our own. But we can see that that's how it is. We can say periodically, as the air weighs in Slavonski Brod, so that the topic becomes more difficult. Currently there were not so many objections to the situation in Slavonski Brod, so we can put this bill to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Why didn't we then when the biggest pollution put the proposal to be discussed, then it would have much greater weight because it was proposed on the side of the opposition. We do not have to wait for such laws to be any pre-election campaign, but we see now that whenever an election campaign is put on, it is now for the European Parliament, so for the presidential elections, so for the national elections and local elections, there is no end. So we live only in the elections, and we form our policies according to what will bring us some voice, or where we will not lose any voice, where greater political or minor political damage depends on who is being viewed but you must be aware that the opposition has no power, because there is simply no power here, let's look at this here, everything is empty. There, one, two, three, four of the opposition, we're trying something, we're talking today all day, that's what we're going to get which point, it's not important at all, but let's just give one of the solutions that one day I feel better when I'm not representing the Croatian Parliament, that I can say something I've done, tried, it was on the trail that I haven't sat here and warmed up this chair and shut up for days or raised my hand for or against when I should or even when I shouldn't have. So, you wouldn't want to characterize such a proposal that we're talking about a technical proposal that certainly politics in it has been broken down to the most, what we can say is that it was a state-to-one attitude but that there's a position here between the ruling and the opposition with some attitude or that it's an ideological question, it's not, it's a purely technical question and it's like now we're bringing in top-of-the-line world experts here and we're asking if the reduction of sulphur in oil can help reduce pollution, you know what the answer would be? The answer would be yes. You got it. Of course, if there is a smaller fraction of the sulphur, there can be no sulphur compounds that will leave, and that's the pure logic that speaks. Therefore, it is not without the devil that the oil that is below 1% of the sulphur is more expensive on the market, easier to process it, less you have to invest in modernization and exactly the investment intensity of a particular refinery determines its success. And MOL did it, they invested with themselves in Hungary, they invested a refinery in Slovakia, and they're probably investing too much now, they don't want to invest in Croatia. Not in two, but in one, he'll invest. And the Russians who make so many losses, so the logic is that they had to implement modernization but they decided that so much loss is still less than what they have to do in modernization and whoever knows the technological process of the river refinery, knows that investment there should practically start over, it's such an old facility that there's no more modernization, it's modernization of the entire facility, so a new facility needs to come there to be profitable. This current market conditions do not ensure that they have one quality market, that they have prosperity in future times and that they will be able to count on the payment of investment that is long-term, long-term, with it must be counted as such, this is currently unstable, each struggles to keep that refinery, that it has its share on the market that can deliver derivatives, derivatives increasingly have standards, you need to improve more and more, and no one says that the Russians and that they have decided to invest today, deliver that technology, that it may not have to for 5 years as a result of these major changes in the market where the demand for cleaner fuel is sought, have to invest further. There's no end to investment, but it's an oil industry, and there's good money there, but it seems to me there's an area where you can invest much less because there's such authorities that allow it to make a normal profit but without investing. Let's not just be like that, let's not let ourselves be exploited by someone here even if it's just a transport system. It didn't last long, so we discussed problems in the Republic of Croatia related to oil refinery in Sisak and the problems didn't stop until enough modernisation was done to remove these problems. And finally, the refinery in Sisak is a jumbo jet for the refinery in the Bosnian Ship but we'll shut ours down and we'll take it and tell it that we're talking to the Russians, so one day when we're good enough for them, they'll tell us, now you're a little better than the Serbs there, and then we'll shut it down in the Bosnian Ship, we won't do you any harm, we'll figure it out, we'll play a little bit. In this game, only our citizens cannot wait for their moment, which is to live in an environment that we can economically, but we are struggling to create the best conditions but also this environmental part that is clean water, air and the rest that make life, we have to give a lot more effort, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140500	Thank you, too. Two replicas, Mr. Felak first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140501	Dear Mr Panenić, I agree with your concern for environmental protection as I have already pointed out in my presentation of the name of the HDZ club, but I will remind you that you were part of the government as your colleague, Mr Dobrović, means Minister and you, Mr Dobrović, from the beginning of 2016 until April 2017, when, in so doing, you left this government and gave up trying to change something from the position, but you went to a comfortable opportunity for the opposition and now clearly, you criticise everything that you think is wrong and you offer solutions for which you know they are not very easy to implement and just so that you can violate international contracts. So why didn't you do anything in those years and a half, when you were in the government, but now you're doing it, and you're putting solutions in here, to this government, which is trying to fix that situation, but it can't be done the way you imagined it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140502	Answer, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140503	I'd be happy to answer your remarks. First, if it hadn't been for HDZ, the prime minister would probably have been longer. But it was going down, the Parliament disbanded, we're talking about the bill here, right, when the Parliament was disbanded, it no longer debated since it became the technical government, as you'll bring. You know when it was? In early June 2016, therefore, you did not allow me time to do so, because you had a political set, your desire, to change something about it and to me only makes me happy, it did not allow anyone here to decide my fate. Yes, I resigned from the Oreshkovic crossing, so it may have been undetected, but at least I made myself, that here, honorably, it does not turn out to be politics here that goes down because of some of the stakeholders who manage it. Behind me, Slaven Dobrović, they went that way, but this marriage, I'll answer... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr Panenic.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140504	Thank you. The second line has Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140505	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Panenić, so we are aware that the quantities of sulphur compounds could be reduced if we were to process oil with less sulphur. We know that, but you also know that you and I and everyone here, that if we did that, then maybe in a refinery in a Bosnian ship somewhere, some other roads would bring back dirty oil and once again the residents of Slavonski Brod would have polluted air like they have for 10 years, so we still have to insist on a refinery refurbishing,... Benefits and refineries, we must insist on this through conversation and diplomacy, in order for citizens of Slavonski Brod, I repeat, to have that clean air because I say that we are not sure if we were to spend all of this, that they would not, of course, continue to bring dirty oil to some other roads and still the citizens of Slavonski Brod have the same situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I repeat, diplomacy, diplomacy, remonting, refinery and higher standards of work in the Bosnian Ship refinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140506	Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140507	Thank you, colleague Maksimchuk, for this comment, although I would say there is no more favourable transport of oil, but through the pipeline, which it is being supplied to, everything else requires much more, not only the costs, but also the logistics procedure. In this way, in fact, first it would have to be a starting point, which wouldn't then be Omisalj, but somewhere further you have to get raw oil. That would be one complication, I don't think anyone would allow crude oil, to go that far in some other forms of transportation. Therefore, to the Bosnian ship,... It can practically be very, very bypassed, through many large populated areas, and it would cause problems, so here, if you see some fields, oil fields, which were done by those who managed them and built a special road infrastructure, so that they could transport from there, not to get exactly that way through settlements and possible hawari, which is really a major danger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140508	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Sasa Djujic's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. And Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, respected citizens, every topic, which opens here in the House, either a bill or a report on the business of a public firm. We see that the same problems appear. They're citizens in all these stories, bill proposals, in the back, which would say, the last hole in the play. And when it comes to this bill, which refers to the oil and oil products market, it is a proposal that we in the party change Croatia, we accept, because here it advocates, so the promoter advocates human health, for a cleaner environment, and we see it best on the example of Slavonski Brod. Citizens of Slavonski Brod, are prisoners of geopoliticals, geostrategics, geostrategics, geostrategics, political structures, which means, some other interests represent, not Croatian citizens, and in this case I am talking about the population of Slavonski Brod and the environment. It's quite reasonable to ask at this time, that the rate of sulphur in oil is reduced from 2.8 to 1%. We in the party change Croatia, we are not in violation of international agreements. So, that would be simply incorrect, that others could do to us. However, could this government not have given the task, that the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, year, two, prepare, fully technologically, install the necessary equipment and that it can be much less polluting the air around Slavonski Brod. That could have happened. Why didn't JANAF charge an extra fee, for the transport of such heavy, dirty oil that has too much sulphur, and then to rejuvenate the inhabitants of Slavonski Brod. Now somebody's gonna say, so listen, so we can't impose any extra pressures, so it's the same for us... Well, look, we've always run this government before, they're always counting on how that other apartment will feel, if it's going to be good for her, it won't, and it doesn't worry about how it's going to affect the health of the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we see right in the area of Slavonski Brod that people are getting more and more better from severe diseases especially from cancers, unfortunately. In particular, it is necessary to explore the role of the so-called a product that simply connects this space with Republika Srpska. What are we actually thinking and suggesting? So here's the thing clear. The political furniture that has led Croatia so far, none of them have defended our interests, they have always watched that the other think in Brussels, in the east, even west, in the west, and for Croatian interests and Croatian citizens, there is no one who has had to fight and change the law or adapt them in the way that suits us. And dear citizens who are watching and listening to us, the problem of Croatia is essentially easily solved. I often see people, grab their heads and say they can't get rid of anything, so you see they all hold hands and stuff. And then I ask them first, do you go to the election, sir or ma'am? Everything here can be settled in the election. 45% of the people bloated during the special parliamentary elections, sits at home and doesn't really want to go out to the polls. The largest number of these people are, they are disgusted by politics, so that when they see and see what all the results are, so those people who have seen the place and the area for their breakthrough, whose private interest was more important than the general interest, are all upside down and contrary to what they were meant to be. So how can you expect dear citizens to see a few of us here, fight, fight for you, if you're sitting at home? And on the other hand, this organized machinery, you see, they come by car, they call it phones, they have to go out, anyway, they're interestingly tied up. Either the job was found through a connection or the building permit got done faster or this or that, so they have an obligation out. You see, you will not harm them and take revenge if you sit at home. Moreover, every one of you who does not go to the elections, he actually gives a double vote to those who go out or to those parties who are no longer allowed to be in power in Croatia. It's a key message for you, it's beautiful, happy news. We in Croatia have enough experts, no matter how many of them have moved out to solve both the economy and the judiciary, we have excellent, professional, smart people, but we have to clean up these structures that have been networked, renetrated as cancer that has metastasized across Croatia. And that's what we're gonna do. This isn't their dad's. This is ours. Anything can be done. And on the day that we have 76 votes here, you will see that Croatia is rapidly resolved, by the economy, by the judiciary, by the environment, etc. But there's only one thing that matters and I'm calling you, so go to the election. You will not punish them by sitting at home and punishing them in the elections. I know you won't vote for those who have ruined Croatia for 20 years. And now to get back to this problem, to the oil markets. Citizens of Slavonski Brod by my analysis, this is very much about every problem we're talking about. Mr. Vice President, about every project we discuss, this is the center of all problems, everyone. [[Intruder Radin: He didn't want to encourage you to do what he did before we talked about oil well.]] Therefore, in the analysis I have conducted, we in the party change Croatia, we have seen to our disappointment that at least citizens go to the elections right in Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area. Well, dear people, wake up if you want to breathe healthy, normal, let's sort it out. Now something to take advantage of the opportunity to say something about oil prices because it's about this. Generally known that certain parties have taken over as their lazy therefore, and also energy such as HNS, such as HEP, means HEP, the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, these are their staff, you know. We've got to get rid of it. Politics in business can't be, especially when it's... And look what we have, in the end we have that Croatia has one of the most expensive, highest fuel prices in the EU. How's that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now she has reached 11 kuna which is a psychological limit and is already a problem for us in such a poor country and a price of 9 kuna psychological limit. Those who do not know the price structure of fuel of 11 kuna, 6.5 kuna goes to VAT and various different and who know more excise duties. Only 4.5 kuna does the manufacturer or wholesaler, the distributor, therefore, fuel prices are terribly burdened by the state's burdens, it buys business entrepreneurs, making life worse for us citizens that we can't normally drive cheaper. Therefore, all these problems are, are being transferred to us and we pay it either through VAT or annual tax or various excise duties but not all of these problems are being solved. So I ask you once again to go out to the elections, to get everyone to the election and finally get it, we actually only have one dilemma, to go out to the elections or not to go to the elections. Whoever doesn't go to the elections, he simply has no right to object to anything, so he agreed, so let's go out and finally start solving, let's start changing Croatia the moment we go out to the choirs, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140510	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140511	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Lovrinovic, let's just talk a little bit about the political mentality of the government in Russia, if we look historically at a country where there was a nuclear host, that the government decided not to inform its own population, only when the countries of Western Europe discovered that radiation was expanding, was it then notified. We're talking here now if something bad is going on, do you think they're taking care of us? Are they interested in making their oil for people, in Croatia, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a population of good? Is it just the creation of energy, or does it matter to them? All that matters is that you spread your influence, that's what worries me. We're looking at what's happening in Venezuela right now. What's in there? They support Hungary, what I've seen doesn't even stand on this other side, but what I've seen is that the standard of life is so ugly in one country that is an oil exporter that it's hard to imagine that such a state here will fight for our rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140512	Time, Mr. Panenic. Time. Mr. Lovrinović would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140513	My colleague Panenić, as you know, in my professional part of the work, I also deal with the business of multinational companies, international finances and their management, and these things are well known to me. It's about so powerful corporations that can change the laws, make laws of what they want, affect government changes in countries and so on, and so on, they even spend their own, expand their culture, form of life, so they have an integral, overall impact on our lives. However, we know less countries like Croatia, and even less, which have their own self, which have their own integrity, which take care of their citizens, about their statehood, about how their country works, and which therefore do not allow anyone to do what they want in their country, so I wait for the day for all those who have not got dirty together to change Croatia together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140514	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And now final Mr Tomislav Panenić on behalf of the motionor of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140515	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will begin here a final word with thanks primarily to the President of the Parliament and the Presidency for putting this item on the table, because the fact is that certain points have sometimes been welcomed to pass the mandate and have never been discussed, so that this topic is already big progress, and I would like that when proposals come to be put in place and that it may not be happening here, as it is today, it is in pre-election time or it is not pre-election time, it is simply as the Government proposes its laws, I don't know, meetings on Thursday, and it is already in recent times and on us for discussion so that everything that comes from other promoters to be as soon as possible, thus it would be avoided and exactly politicizing or in some way of provoking when a similar topic is being discussed through the laws proposed by the Government and that the opposition won't get into the debate of its law. I am pleased here that we have managed to open the topic, that at least that part of the consciousness through this debate has been raised, that those who have listened to us and the few of us who have debated here know that the starting point of the problem is complex, that this was one direction that this Law can change, but also that we should continue to fight and to solve the issue, in fact whether the refinery will exist, not only will it be modernised, we are talking about the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, whether perhaps through that modernization, the gasification will be carried out, and so, very much... demanding this, but what is certain for the citizens, primarily for the citizens of Slavonski Brod, is that it should be in a short time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got time to come up with a national policy now until the refinery works, we need to prepare ourselves for the time that the refinery starts to work again, do we're staying in this position, so we're looking at a diplomatic solution that, unfortunately, in conditions where we probably have one of the worst diplomatic positions not only in the environment but also in the European Union, we're just going to look at our efforts not to produce the fruits, we're going to suffer, we're going to suffer, it's going to take a year, two years, one government, another government, but people there are demanding that with the end of this stop in the production plant to be modernized. Their expectations are that it won't change much more than this when the refinery doesn't work until the moment it starts working again. And again, the question will be raised which the Croatian Government of any, including the Government and mine, was listed before me, and the government that was behind me, because they simply expect us to be taken, to have an initiative, sometimes even the adoption of such laws is something that might affect the acceleration of another, so as counterpart Slaven Dobrović said and let's try something else, maybe we'll cause a reaction that'll be much better than just to have this carried out, so there's no problem maybe we should step down, but we're making a certain effort to change something else and make it a better quality. I also expect here from the ruling if 1% is a problem, so let's see if there's any other solution, but like this, just wait doesn't give solutions, diplomatically through too long, because diplomacy can sometimes be said by an eternal category, and people's lives have a certain duration and people want to live in it quality and, of course, not to be a living environment the reason for emigration. We have enough economic problems and problems that arise now by entering the European Union to move people, and even the area of Slavonski Brod has been hit by a team, and even when someone gives you an additional reason such as polluted air, then you have no doubts about yourself, your family will make you what you think is best, and it is to go somewhere further where it is more economically simple, and where at least you will enjoy cleaner air. It happens to us that Western Europe is slowly raising standards that unfortunately the plants that once polluted that area are moving eastwards, moving towards China, according to other areas, moving to Africa, and simply running away from the pollution in production processes, and there is no profit for any company or income of any country to go somewhere further where lower standards make much better income than you would where there are significant restrictions. According to this logic, we should be significantly reversed in all aspects in order to be acceptable to setting up an investment, because if we are persistent and insist on the high standards that are primarily here and the European Union, even imposed on us where we have a problem with acceptance, it is transposed into our legislation, we will have major problems about general and economic development, so we need to come up with new policies, but how will we design if we live in the past, if we live on the rules that JANAF set in 2003? From 2003 to today, it's been 15, 16 years, and it definitely can't be an excuse. In 15, 16 years, industry has changed, and not that it cannot change certain legislation, and even if it is not a sublegal act, it is even an internal act of one company, and if the state is a majority owner then we have nothing to think about, it could have been done in other ways, but this way we take political responsibility, we don't just expose the company, and it gets much more credit in talking to its partners to tell them simply through us the oil that has high stakes, the reb-oil won't be possible to transport, or something with that oil will do to reduce the amount of sulfur before it goes into transport, or simply it's marketable. Once we'll probably get into a situation in the world that everyone will say this oil is no longer for processing, don't draw something that pollutes the environment, but this level of consciousness is very difficult to come and in application, we see that sometimes political will has little to do. I am also referring to the Secretary of State right now to consider all these aspects, and from the raw materials that enters the refinery, and about the modernization of the refinery, and about the diplomatic efforts, about everything that needs to be taken but that you have a clear action plan with the deadlines in which you will be implemented, if you do not want to accept the proposal as we have referred to, but here, we do not have much here, this is a proposal that we have given from the position that we have, from you we have not seen other proposals, I will gladly raise my hand for the proposal that you will form and that will change the situation in Slavonski Brod, but let's not stay here to wait for the diplomatic efforts of people who have been able to discuss their entire lives in diplomacy, and never bring a concrete result, to solve the situation of Slavonski Brod's inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140516	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. This concludes the debate today, tomorrow, Friday, May 3, 2019, with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy. Thank you very much and rest until tomorrow. The session was interrupted at 4:12 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-02-0.u140517	Proposal for a Act supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, first reading, P.Z. No. 449. Proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Act supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products is not adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 18 abstentions and 14 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
