ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174749	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats, I welcome you all and open the 15th session of HS, especially I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-Presidents and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 14th session of HS have been received by electronic means, any objections to the minutes? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 14th session of HS in the proposed text. We are now moving to set the agenda of the session, with a call for the session you have also received a draft agenda, the final draft agenda has been sent to you by electronic means. I stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda were printed in bolder letters, and the item did not contain the draft agenda you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included 28 new points under regular numbers from points 1 to 11, from 19 to 26, from 32 to 38 and points 43 and 89. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal is to be adopted under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 205. The Rules of Procedure will be decided on the draft laws for which the proposer proposes to adopt in an emergency procedure, those are items 2, 19, 20, 21 and 22 of the final draft agenda. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Be my guest, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174750	Mr. President, the SDP Club is opposed to passing a law under regular procedure. In 795, i.e. the second in the agenda, it is the Law on Supplements to the Law on Delicacies and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law. We believe that it is a shameless involvement of HS in a pre-election campaign for the President of the Republic, not that you are afraid that if this law goes into regular procedure that someone else, rather than the current president, will present a new medal and I am expressing and afraid that the new Grand Order of Franjo Tudjman will not end up on someone's birthday cake, so we are asking for a vote on an emergency procedure, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174751	Okay, is anyone else picking up? At other points of the agenda, there are no objections, and then we will vote on the application of the emergency procedure at the point of the second agenda, that is: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Decouplings and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 795. So we vote that this point be discussed by emergency procedure, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 68 for and 20 against it has been confirmed that we will discuss this point by emergency procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. 225 C. 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of the HS meeting may be submitted in writing only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. In the absence of a written objection to points which did not contain the draft agenda, in accordance with the request for a meeting, and those points are included in the agenda of the 15th session. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 228th century 1. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner, I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it fully but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as I have proposed in the final draft agenda. Thank you very much even before we start with the current morning, one notice, as part of the International Day of Combating Violence against Women and the start of an international campaign on 16 days of activity against violence against women, the Committee on Gender Equality invites all MPs and MPs, especially members and members of the Committee on Gender Equality, to presently Wednesday 27 November, during the day in front of the Basic Table, to print their palms on canvas or written message symbolically message "Stop Violence Against Women". Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 226(2) I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 15th session with five new points. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.18 HOURS]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is the point of the first amendment to the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation. 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on a European citizens' initiative with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 802. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Rules of Procedure, I find this legislative proposal to be included in the agenda How appropriate. Article 225(4) The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 15th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174754	Mr. President, I have no objection to an emergency procedure. I reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that article 241st, Vice President Reiner, on Friday, overly ruled out a debate between his colleagues, Maras, in two days. In accordance with Article 241 of the Rules of Procedure, this is what is done when a representative makes it impossible for the Parliament to work, and I have quoted the Rules of Procedure as saying. Mr. Maras did ask for an explanation of why he received the warning, but he did not disable the work of the Parliament. So I suggest you ease that sanction in a way that leaves him at a session for Friday, but not today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174755	At this point, it's hard to give me a precise answer. I believe that colleague Maras spoke to the committee responsible to... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know there is such a situation yourself where if a representative dissatisfied with the Chairman's decision then contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, if this is not done I am sorry, I will have to follow what Vice President Reiner did. Thank you very much. In the absence of any comments, I consider that an emergency procedure proposal has been adopted, in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 15th session. One more thing, so right now at the beginning of today, to conduct a joint discussion on two points of the agenda, is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds. Are we in agreement? If we did, I'd say there's going to be a united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174756	The first to present the position of the club is a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please welcome colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174757	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the House, who leaves the assembly, respected ministers who leave the assembly and respected fellow MPs who leave the assembly, I have something to say to you. We do not forget, so no matter what you are leaving the assembly, which the Prime Minister has left the assembly, the Croatian people will not forget. Don't forget. So, Your Honor, can you turn the team down a little bit? And stop the time, please. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: colleagues and colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174758	How about a little bit? Could I have some, please? Representative Zekanovic... My colleague Zekanovic, come in. He's calmed down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174759	Therefore, the Croatian people do not forget no matter how hard they try to forget. On the 29th of November, he celebrated Republic Day, and I am sure that many fellow MPs also celebrated that day. Some of that day, even staged a pig's car, here, colleague Culey is signaling me right now, yes, yes. However, we forget the newer Croatian past. We forget what happened exactly 2 years ago on 29.11. On the 29th of November, on this symbolic birthday of a failed country, a man has never sent us a stronger message, and the general, it is General Slobodan Praljak, who, on the 29th of November 2017 in the Hague prison, in the Hague courtroom, took his own life. Not because he's a coward, but because he's a hero. Because he's brave. To send us never a stronger message. To send us a message that the Homeland War must not be forgotten. To send us a message saying that his suffering that he went through and the other five convicts in the Hague prison must not be forgotten. However, Andrej Plenkovic, who has just left the assembly, does not like it. He doesn't like that someone will mark the death this year, the heroic death of General Praljko. And I wonder if he's talking to his colleague Angela Merkel about still being in the Hague prison at Milivo Petkovic. Is he talking to his colleagues in Europe about the martyrly death of General Pralj? Why is this a forbidden topic in the Croatian state? Why can no one in the Croatian media, any of the Croatian politicians, mention the name of this honorable man, the hero, General Praljko? However, the Croatian people do not forget, so this year they will mark his death as worthy. This year, a walk from Tomislav Square to Ban Jelačić Square is being organised on that 29.11. and this Friday, respectively. The walk starts at 14:00 and I invite all Croatian citizens, all those who have a nice memory of General Slobodan Praljak, to come, to bring candles, candles that we will light in the square of Ban Jelačić. This gesture is being organised by the Association of the Dead Defendants of the Homeland War. So it is those who gave their life for their country, or widows, that they realize how big and powerful the message that General Free Praljak sent us. And I will repeat, no matter how hard Andrej Plenkovic tried to forget some things Croatian people, no matter how much he ignored some important facts of a newer Croatian history, General Praljak is alive. His message that he sent still lives inside us and General Praljak is not a criminal. General Praljak is a hero. And all Croats and Croats who feel the sacrifice of General Praljko I call on this Friday, 29.11. in a decent manner to mark his heroic act. Let them come to Tomislav Square at 14 o'clock and say once again thanks to the Croatian general in the trail to Ban Josip Jelačić Square.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174760	We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives. The first is Mr. Željko Glasnović in front of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174761	Dear colleagues. Here, today, here we are again today in HS and many times we hear all these debates, outside people watching it on television, but they forget sometimes that we forget, and we are not aware that this battle is being fought not only on a political level but on a cultural and one metaphysical and spiritual level. A hundred times said in this House but no one accepts it, it does not accept the good part of the Croatian public, that the greatest barricade for us in this country for progress is this mental heritage of the one-party system. There's no way to get rid of it. It's this country's problem. These are all empty stories. It's a spiritual and anthropological problem because we can't change. How's that? Why is that? 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, evidence is this Parliament. That people don't accept and just, this is just, it takes a wall of pay to make us all whine down, but the solution and the answers are always at the source. 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall about 40% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, the minimum still lives in the ideological habitat of SFRY. We saw this yesterday in a former SCOY hero Tito who defended that former system failed, first spiritually, then financially, then economically and ultimately fell on the battlefield, and today we still have the tails of that system, that's where people sit because 300 members of the Communist party have entered these all parties. It's a key problem and they can't change their mental circuit. This is the key problem of the Croatian state. They not only infiltrated politics, but culture and all segments of Croatian society. And we sit here and discuss the Swiss model. That's a joke. Here. Let's take some lessons. What's the lesson learned from the former state? Are these the lessons you learned? If we'd repeated the same mistakes here, artificial employment, uncompetitive businesses, 260, how many 60 grand works in public administration, it's nowhere in the world. That's what China doesn't have. Let's talk about strikes. A strike in 88 is legal is the word strike. But we also have a self-government economy there. How's that? Why in 87 years was the strike, it was 120, 1200 quits, 100,000 people on the street. In 88, 360 thousand people on the street, and 200 thousand of these cease-fires, not strikes. I wonder who those workers were strikein' against? Against themselves because they're de facto in theory... companies, they run companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no, these companies ran a.../incomprehensible... communist, not a profession. We have the same thing today. If you want to destroy one of this economy, externally, Croatia has a secret weapon, just send it to Switzerland or Singapore two Croatian economists as advisers in six months and the economy will fail. It's been proven here. Let's go back to 88, the salary fell 22%, inflation was 1200 on, on, on the monthly. Inflation. Here, you remember those grant loans, social housing, who got it? The red nobility that rules this country today and we fool ourselves here and tell ourselves stories. But other countries got rid of that ballast, I mentioned Poland, the judiciary. We have 32 Supreme Judges, 29 of them from the former system. Now what? But for an effective state, one cannot be built on fake history. That's what we do today. We fake history today. And we refer to the former state as some sort of lumen of this part of Europe. It takes three things for each organization to make it efficient. That means we need to be a structure that needs to be efficient, manage and also, discipline and incentive. Of which there was nothing in that state, that's why it failed and today we repeat the same mistakes, and when we talk about art in that country, there's developed one, this southern economy that's failed because it couldn't be competitive. There's an alpha and an omega of art and Antonio Lauer was walking naked Ilica, putting his dick in a shaht, and there was also a fecalography because there was, the toilet paper wasn't in these toilets from the Adriatic up to Karlovac, so you wiped your butt with newspapers and hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174762	We are going to the third exhibition, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174763	Dear colleagues. Before I go on the subject that was my intention to expose her, I must refer here to my colleague, Vučetić, who left the assembly. Who expressed his disdain over keeping a minute of silence to the late General Praljak who sent us all a message. One strong message. He's out of the MOST, so let's get a nice jump on the SDP. And I am telling him from this place that I will try to keep there a minute of silence in the protocol next year for the late General Pralj and that there are tens of thousands of people in Ban Josip Jelačić Square who will mark the death of that man, or that message he sent us, and that is the most powerful message recently received by the Croatian people. And actually, the idea of today's address was different to me, and it's about one thing: the money. It's about 6 447 294.96 kuna. So it's almost $6.5 million. It is about money the Croatian state will have to pay out of the budget because of unemployment, sloppyness, carelessness and perhaps something else. Maybe crime at the Ministry of Education. So, for all those who don't know. Because of the poor implementation of the so-called reforms, the Minister of Curiculum will say, I will say curicula reforms, then he dares not speak a word of Croatia, or the famous School of Life. DEFCO, or defko, in charge of managing EU funds, has established that 25% of the funds spent cannot be financed from the EU, or must be financed from the Croatian budget. I will repeat, because of the sloppyness of Minister Divjak, HDZ's coalition partner, the Croatian state will have to get out of the budget, raise 6.5 million kuna. And who's to blame? It's nobody's fault. Who's to blame why we haven't had class in 16 days? The Minister of the Wild is not. It's not Andrew Plenkovic's fault either, then it's not his parents' fault, it's not even the educators' fault. When it's right, it's going to be quiet and nobody's talking about that curricula reform being a complete disaster, that there's not a single segment of the so-called. Schools for a life that is valid except perhaps a beautiful name for the school itself or for the reform itself. And then when it is found that this huge material loss, then the assistant minister is Mrs. The king of thanks for his duty or announces that he will not compete for the position of director of the administration or will no longer be an assistant minister and no one is guilty, she will leave, the minister will stay, and 6.5 million kuna in the Croatian budget is gone. I therefore call on all colleagues and colleagues from this place, regardless of whether they are in the ruling coalition or they are in opposition, to assist in the initiative to form the Parliamentary Research Commission and to examine all processes, all procedures of Minister Divjak on curricula reform, regarding the purchase of information equipment, on the production of methodical textbooks and on the lack of 6.5 million kuna in the state budget. What you all know, it takes 10% of the MPs, which is what 16 of us need to ask for, and so can the Mother's Committee, which I doubt. But from this point on, I call on all the political options and those that are ideologically opposed to me and colleagues who may be a little more inclined to support me in this initiative and to establish an investigative commission and finally prove in the Croatian public that the School of Life, or the famous reform of curricula, is a huge fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174764	Representative Zeljko Glasovic also reported on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club, Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174765	Dear colleagues, defence ministers, the team, Mr. Petrov. Now, that's where Mr. Sagar's key word was love. What about the love of Croats outside the country who love this Croatian state much more than 80% of the heads of government who have proved this by their work, most of these years since 95. And of course when we see, we're talking about minorities, there's no such system anywhere because there's no 8 minorities there but there's half of your HS are young gentlemen who are minorities on your birth certificate and Yugoslav nationalists. So now, what's going on? These people out there love the Croatian state, they invest, we see that they have increased foreign credits, there comes a minimum of 5% of GDP that Mr. Bulj has said here recently, and that is a minimum and another 1/3 of those 17 and some billion kunas a year that comes which is unregistered, people have real estate and some clinical idiots and krklans say they don't need them, none of the MPs should have here for the Croatian diaspora, actually outside the Homeland Republic of Croatia in BiH, and we're hundreds of millions of dollars in plus with the trade of Croats in BiH, we don't live in Lichtenstein, we're surrounded by, we're surrounded by looking there between the Schengen border and the southern wing of NATO you have a black, black hole that hasn't yet been renovated, etc., you have professionals out there, American, Croatian professionals here, put one here to devatize the economy, we don't know that't go back from '45. They're all back. You have a G2 economic forum, it was activated by a man from Venezuela, what about the Croats in Venezuela, run state-owned companies, would come back, who asks them anything and has it, etc. In Canberra, the capital of Australia, 64% of the city was built by companies holding Croatian owners, let's just a little bit, now comes, it's my best phrase, Festival of Democracy, Festival of Democracy. The last election in New York of 10,000 of our Croatian people in Manhattan alone voted out of 10,000, 60, no correspondence vote, so much for the Festival of Democracy, double taxation, 6 months for, for, to get citizenship, here, but what hurt her more, there was recently the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Affairs, that's the man who collaborated with Udba, there he sat, has a code name, he worked against the Croatian state, first he was in the Ministry of European Affairs, now sits in, now sits there in the UN, it's what people see, here some, for example. You have thousands of files infiltrating the Croatian community, e.g. This code name Drago, he was focused on Claire's problems, and this is good, best says we have good working conditions, so who's going to confess. This is Drago, France. You have owls, not the owls we think, it's the other owl one, I write, it says here how they chose them, says young, bright, resourceful and, of course, blue, coffee head for such jobs, don't think Stazic. You have Andrija, Andrija from Canada, he's haro in Canada, and he delivers documentation of our people outside for court proceedings, for court proceedings, we go, so on and so on for democracy and lustration laws and the Festival of Democracy. You have a film Mars attack where they play a song of Martians no one can destroy, so they play one song, then their heads explode, I'd play here in HS Chavogheads to see how many heads would explode here, because they're more tough than those Martians. Yes, on Agitprop, we have no diplomacy, again inert, now Albanians had one in New York, this protest against the raped women in this area, not only in, in Kosovo, but also in BiH and Croatia, they had Croatian flags, what did our diplomacy do, absolutely nothing, inert heads, what do we say about Agitprop we're amateurs according to Serbian this great Serbian imperialism, now they're making us a movie "Dora from Jasenovac", it's going to be in all the movies in the west, we're going to be silent and we're going to keep quiet about all these other things and who's to blame, the Festival of Democracy here is all about what democracy, a description of this where two wolves and one sheep are going to have breakfast, and we're apathic, so who is to blame for us Croatians?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174766	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174767	We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the clubs, the first on behalf of the club of sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and colleagues of Hasanbegovic will speak for the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174768	Dear colleagues, here again this morning the wall of wages should be made in Zagreb downstairs that we are all whining together with the regiment that we are killing here with one atmosphere of despair and hopelessness because the situation is like that, judge for yourself what the media is running through that filter, we know. Here's Mr. Curaj now talked about some topics but all these discussions come down to one thing is this thing that, our key problem is that the entire system from the former state and the mental set has moved to the present Croatia. That's why we're where we are. Speaking of the judiciary, Mr. Maras, we know who sits in all the institutions in the court, the Supreme Court, that's what I've been saying, most of the people in the former system and they make the laws. This morning we heard something about herbicides etc., I don't know if it's necessary to come here with an agronomist to discuss these things or we're going to suffer a little bit not only from phobias, different phobias, but we're going to suffer from chemo, that everything is poisoned because it's really because we throw 450 kg of food per capita per year every Croat and we get PTSD, it's a Croatian PTSD, drink, eat, drink. In the end here I'll start with the main topic, yesterday we talked about the military, Croatian military, development, equipment, professional development, etc., we didn't join as a club but I'd say some things about these topics now. We of course entered a collective security organization, it's NATO and how long we'll stay there but it looks like we're there until further notice, but... that the Americans are tired and they pay the most, they pay 10, 12 times the most of the following countries to maintain that organization, they're tired of it, and they're asking, of course, that they all lift this one up... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Defence spending up to 2%, we are somewhere in 1.5% and Germany that has the strongest economy in Europe on the continent spending 12.14 times less than Americans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whatever we're talking about NATO's combat preparedness, on the continent, all these European states cannot raise one brigade for deployment in the Baltic republics. We know what's waiting for us upstairs. We lobby here, club lobbying sovereigns, of course for the right active reserve because 37% of men's heads in Croatia are capable of a military deadline, 37% and can be realized, we have exercises every weekend, let's say, 4 years of exercise, military exercises, it can be done, we need a model similar to Switzerland because we are surrounded, we know... This is not Liechtenstein, I said yesterday, but a number of states and equipment, these are not components of combat preparedness in itself, but we need the structure of organisational and we need firepower and transport, which we need firepower if we don't have the transport to bring that firepower to the first line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How long will it take us to deploy our forces if we're in danger again? There was a lot of blow on that story about American planes. 15 minutes of NATO flight base and we will not be dependent on the future of Croatia's 14 fighter aircraft. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened in Germany, I formed teams that conducted a new doctrine in the military and Federation and Croatia, I wrote manuals but one thing is clear, that this system of former failure, the military system of JNA because the same thing that failed this economy and everything else in that failed experiment, because they did not develop, one of the reasons why they did not develop responsibility, the initiative to the lowest level, did not have a professional staff of officers, that is one reason, the other reason is that this equipment was outdated because 80% of what was worth in Yugoslavia, everything was there, 80% was related to the military industry of... etc. and finally, we still have to teach a lesson about the Croatian army that has not yet been learned and it is a work that lasts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174769	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174770	We are now moving on to the presentation of the views of representatives' clubs and independent representatives. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, so please, dear colleague Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174771	Dear President of the Assembly, may your colleagues leave the assembly because I don't think there's any...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174772	Comrades and colleagues, I ask you that, colleagues and colleagues are not correct to the speaker please leave the assembly who does not want to be here, and who is, who remains to be quiet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174773	Thank you very much. So, as we are all aware today and as we have marked a minute of silence earlier, today we mark 20 years since the death of the late President Tudjman, i.e. from the death of the first Croatian president exactly 20 years ago and today they mention his name and today many remember his policies, however not in the right way. What President Tudjman was actually saying, what was his policy, and what direction he led the Croatian state, I think some of them forgot, and when I say first of all, I mean the current Croatian management, namely the current Croatian government, primarily Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. In the 1990s, in Ban Josip Jelačić's Square in front of decades, perhaps hundreds of thousands of people gathered who called Franjo, Franjo, then Tudjman said among other sentences and this sentence "We have our own Croatia, it is our own and it will be our own, we will not allow anyone on the side of what Croatia should be but we will decide for ourselves," so Tudjman was primarily a sovereign, he emphasized the sovereignty and sovereignty of our homeland in every speech, and this sentence is signifying and I am sure that the late President Tudjman is watching the Republic, today's Republic, 2019. and the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to Brussels specifically, or the relationship of the Prime Minister to Brussels would not be satisfied, would not be satisfied with the relationship of current President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic also to international politics because the Republic of today is contrary to this sentence that Tudjman has spoken, for every step he asks Birsel or Washington for every convention, every law, every important political step is seen what politicians from Brussels will say, or I think that we are very little sovereign nowadays. And as Tudjman spoke at the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the UN, here and here I will read a short passage where the late Tudjman said, "The Croatian people have preserved their own self-evidently seeking full independence and sovereignty, this highest goal of achieving what every human being desires, from the moment in its development reaches the stage of a special national political self-awareness and when it is allowed by international circumstances, is that Croatian people as well as many other smaller peoples have achieved today, this is the time in which humanity is going to experience the highest degree of civilization, integration, but at the same time national individualizations in persuading these fundamental tendencies of humanity tending to create a unique world community as a regulated international order of sovereign states created on a general, accepted principles of the right of the people on its own and freedom." So, Tuman'st has always spoken of sovereignty in Croatia's Europe's sense of sovereignty and of Croatia, the EU, without being true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174774	The next club of representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic but speak to the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174775	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatian society needs catharsis, Croatian society faces today the most difficult problem ever, I dare say this is a bigger challenge than it was. Homeland war or some other war that was fought in this area of ours, in the space of our Croatia. And it's a demographic disaster, it's about Croatia being demographically on its feet and I've often talked from this place like many other colleagues about this problem, but I don't see any key measures that the Croatian government has taken or intends to take to solve this problem. Unfortunately, many Croatian settlements will soon cease to exist, but some major Croatian cities will be brought in because they will not be able to function communally, with a simple dictionary they will have no one to collect garbage from the street, no one will have to take care of the city's complete infrastructure. But we have some bright examples, and I'd like to mention here two small settlements that are not spoken of. A small village called Đulovac and a village called Kistanje. The residents of the Yearbook from Kosovo moved to Djulovac and to Kistanje from Janjevo, also from Kosovo. The sneezing is today I'll tell the new Lamb. These two small settlements, unlike 99% of Croatia, are nevertheless demographically alive, healthy, there children are still born. There are cases of birth in both families and more than 10 children, more than 10 children. It's usually 5, 6 and more. And no one mentions that. No one mentions that these settlements are demographically healthy and that we apply this example of good practice elsewhere in Croatia. Let's see what these Croats are, our Croats who moved here immediately after the war in Croatia, which makes them different from us, which is what the values of the heritage are compared to the Croats who have not migrated to Kosovo or elsewhere, or who are always in the territory of Croatia. Another thing I would warn myself about is that, not only are these examples of good practice not being valued but rather being used and not applying what they do elsewhere but not even rewarding these people for what they do and demographics are the most important thing for every country and even for Croatia. In Janjevo, do you know how many playgrounds? Zero. Do you know how many kindergartens there are? Zero. It's the same in the Yearbook. Sorry. It's the same in Giulovac. So Kistanje and the Yearbook, i.e. Djulovac, here I mix these places a little bit because actually, residents have moved from one place to another, completely forgotten by the Croatian authorities, are completely forgotten by the county authorities, no local, demographic measures have applied, no national demographic measures have applied to this very valuable and important group that can be our role model to all of us. And what I would conclude with is that this very Christian tradition and culture that those heritage is the reason for their survival is the reason for their progress. And if we want the catharsis of our society, if we want that real recovery of our own, the demographic recovery of our homeland, we have to go back to that. Do not run away from the fact that Croats are one Christian people that heritage is Christian tradition and culture, and only when we return to what we are will we be able to expect a demographic recovery. So let all inhabitants of Djulovec and Kistanja be a role model to us because if they are not bad, it is written to our Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174776	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and in the name of which the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174777	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. I'd like to begin by congratulating Boris Johnson and his conservative party who made the election mean the UK in the United Kingdom. So as I believe many know and many do not have the right, so Boris Johnson and his party prevailed and this very conservative idea, I'm going to say and here the idea of Brexit has won. And I still have to mention here that it's embarrassing that many globalists even think they'll be able to make a new referendum in the UK to undo the people's will, the demographic will of the people, but here it won't be possible. However, when asked by the people, the people are determined, knows what is true, and knows what is best for them so that this way, here, truly, I congratulate Boris Johnson from the heart on the great victory and on what, what he will do and that is Brexit for the whole EU, for the whole world. So the people decide their fate, that's what the English have shown, so the population of the United Kingdom has shown that it is thinking with its own head, and it has made that decision that they should have made. And the Labourists, in fact, the Socialists here are a little sad, so get out of the EU, be, be, be, have, i.e. They actually have no reason to be and maybe they have a reason to be the way they look. So the other thing I'd like to mention here, here's my colleague Glasnović, not that it's a good time to talk to me, so he asked me, here in my hand I have a doctrinal note written by the Holy One, means Pope John Paul II. and it is a doctrinal note on some issues related to the participation of Catholics in political life. So, he's here, he tried to encourage while he was alive means Catholics to participate in political life, so this is one interesting booklet that he sees, a fellow Glasovic shared to all of you here on the constituency benches. Open up and take a look. And it's interesting that you just look at it, or look at it right now, at a time when here we expect one of the greatest Christian holidays, Christmas. And maybe for the end, what I'd like to say from this place, I'd tell everyone who's following HS's work that I wish them a merry Christmas, a blessed Christmas, and that we all remember and that we have in mind what is the real message of Christmas. So the real message of Christmas is that the Creator came to this world, it's not Xmas, it's not Advent in Zagreb, it's not Advent in Sibenik, it's the coming of the Creator to this world that was later sacrificed for us. So let us also remember these messages, and let it be a time of hope, hope for the Croatian people, a time when here it is, all those who gather at the holiday table will get a new hope that some catharsis, catharsis, and this Christmas that we will soon welcome. So, once again congratulations to Boris Johnson, once again I congratulate everyone on Christmas, and here it is, this... I'll give it to the vice president of the Parliament to keep in mind what it says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174778	I usually have it at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174779	Next is counterpart Ivica Misic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174780	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk a little bit about the railroad. Of course, Zagreb-Vinkovci. I was supposed to do that in front of the minister, but there's been some misunderstanding, so I'm going to tell the public today. I recently delivered the documents to Mr. Butkovic, the minister of calculation how much it would cost, in order to speed up this railway from Zagreb to Vinkovac, I hope it will be done and I hope this government will do so. I must tell the truth that a lot of this government has done already for Slavonia is working and trying to solve this problem. Why was the problem for so many years that the track towards the east was neglected, it's not clear to me, if we know that in Vinkovci in one day, 24 hours, 400 trains passed. What is it today, it's about 80 today. Why haven't we opened the corridor towards Bosnia, why is the corridor towards Serbia running so slowly? Of course, when we didn't build the tracks. I hope that's the way it's gonna be and that's the way it's supposed to be. It's sad to know that Austria worked 100km of railways through Bosnia in nine months, only for nine months at that time. When we see trains in Japan driving about 500 km per hour while in Croatia on average is 50 km, then we ask ourselves why railways are so neglected. I hope this government takes that into account and we try to solve that part, solve that part. Of course listening to and observing the budget again invests much in Dalmatia, in Kvarner, in Istria, in Zagorje, but again in Slavonia very little. I think it's time to turn to Slavonia, thank God we did everything in Dalmatia and around, but it's time to settle it in Slavonia. It's a very, very important thing for us to do with the Vinkovs. There's one more thing I'm gonna talk about. The other day I was on the subject of the Shepherd at a crime session in Ovcara, and then some people came to me from my Bosnia, where I came from exactly from Prijedor. People living in these parts simply have nothing, can't even sleep in their homes that they built and sleep in social homes. Threats that Serbs continue to threaten them, people who want to build their own houses, who want to take out a grant excerpt from, can't get, can't get IDs, can't come to them, we wonder, and the war has ended, criminals have been declared Karadzic, Mladic and all the rest of Milosevic, I wonder if there's still war going on in BiH, do our Croats in BiH have any rights, what's happening in the Serbian Republic? I wonder what Croatian representatives are doing in the Serbian Republic's assembly, how much they report and give to this government, how much help do they ask other institutions in Europe? He's been there 25 years since the war stopped, and some quiet war is being waged, even 30. I ask you and I am concerned, of course, that these people, especially in the village of Brishevo, where everything was killed in the village of Brishevo and around, stop, threaten to die. The other day we had the same problem with the highway that the prime minister, I thank him again, did that part of the job and I hope that it will be okay today, but the Croats still live in fear, the Croats are still not in Bosnia treated as citizens who have the right to be in their homes, have the right to express their home, have the right to all rights as all other peoples, as they all ask in Croatia seek, have the right, we are a constitutional people there. In the Serbian Republic, it is simply not so and I pray and try to say from this pay phone, here is the prime minister to be aware of what is happening in the Serbian Republic especially there about Banja Luka and Prijedor and those places where people, where they would have built themselves and to be protected and to have the right to their homes that they had and that this government should talk to Dodik a little bit and see what is happening. Of course, our people sitting there must be comfortable, so they don't care about the others, so I'm saying, help this government, I'm telling you, help these people in Bosnia to have their dignity. And live a normal life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174781	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174782	The next club of representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Mladen Madjer will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174783	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues clearly that, I would like to talk about rural development, a little bit about the village, because bad infrastructure in rural development if the villages will remain empty. Unfortunately, both the halls and the communal infrastructure if no one will live in them. I believe that we are all looking forward to the agricultural strategy that the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing together with the World Bank and we clearly have great expectations of it. As a representative of the Labour and Solidarity Party, I would like to contribute to the improvement of our agriculture and the current state of agriculture. So I'm going to make some criticism, but I'm going to offer solutions, maybe some of these solutions, and, uh, take these governments, as was the proposal from the free textbooks. But to get back to the topic of agriculture, unfortunately on the one hand, we have a situation that we are large importers and on the other hand we have large output potentials. Our farmers need to know how things are going. We need an exact base of agricultural goods, imports, exports, land status, an indicative plan for the future. We must finally call the agricultural land tender. What's up with that? How many municipalities have called the competitions, and how many haven't? When we talk about incentives, incentives direct, indirect, European, national are not enough, clearly they are welcome for farmers but cannot be the main support for our farmers. We must primarily enable our people or farmers to sell their products and bring our consumers closer to domestic products. Let's go, for example. an example of Zagreb that implements and supports the promotion of domestic products and manufacturers, but clearly plans to move forward to double the sale and consumption of domestic products in the City of Zagreb. It is necessary to include units of local self-government in raising the competitiveness of our agriculture in the education of our consumers in the promotion of domestic products and to help maintain it. We all need to get into branded domestic products. Domestic products need to be certified, especially marked to make sure the consumer buys firsthand Croatian product without a lot of effort. It is clearly necessary to include local self-government units, i.e. to encourage the association of agricultural producers to reduce production costs and improve the quality of production. Farmers need professional and monetary assistance around the organisation itself, thus obtaining legal certainty, financial assistance and economic benefits. We must provide our cattlemen with the purchase of the cattle produced, which is very important, we must ensure the purchase of the cattle produced, I repeat the ransom because the purchases have been neglected, there are no real purchases throughout Croatia. Our milkers are helping to join together to have no problems with the ransom, of course, respecting the free market law. It is necessary to secure market infrastructure, refrigerators, storage facilities, delivery vehicles. We need to develop short supply chains, sell and deliver fresh domestic agricultural products and processed plant, animal origin as soon as possible from the manufacturer to the end-user. We must find a way and support the sale on the agricultural holding, just harvesting on a farm property, because it is also one way for manufacturers to reduce the cost of harvesting and transport, and enables consumers to contact the manufacturer directly, lower prices, educational, social, social and recreational effects on citizens of consumers. The change in tax policy, the reduction in VAT rates, should be extended to other products. To provide manufacturers with a decent price and make them competitive both on the domestic and world market. Our domestic products must be on all plates in state institutions. I repeat, I call on everyone to unanimously support these initiatives that the Labour and Solidarity Party is going to present in the establishment of an interest organisation 365 village. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174784	The next Club of Representatives is the MOST of Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174785	So, before taking a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, welcome students of the Technical Industrial School Ruđer Boskovic from Sinj, welcome. We're continuing to carry out, next is colleague Miro Bulj. [[Applause.]] Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174786	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, here I would like first to welcome the students from my Sinj, of course their professors. What would I say today? In fact, today and through the parliamentary question, I was talking about the problem of evicting our citizens where 5% of GDP comes from evicted citizens. So this government has evicted 5% of our people to have 5% of the funds in the GDP. However, when we look at the 2/3 of Croatia here from my Dalmatian mountain, all the projects promised, to Slavonia, Like, she saw that the government only had PR governments in recent years, here two years ago the Croatian government led by Andrej Plenkovice had its own government in Split where they reached conclusions on the construction of the example of a merger on the highway Sinja, Križice – Kukuzovac. My colleagues and colleagues, in 2016 a feasibility study, is selected a variant of that road of life, significant for Sinj and Cetina region, or for example a field irrigation project, here my Sinjans here know high school students, 21st century we don't have the irrigation of the Sinj field, but it's dry in the srid field. More spring Cetina in one day throws out water, drinking, clean than all the springs in Israel, and there it is irritable, about Sinj, the Cetina region, the Dalmatian Zagora is not concerned, and that we are not just talking about it, we have given amendments. We gave amendments, so they got angry with their HDZ colleagues who weren't even on, when the amendments were being discussed, the example of the Split hospital, because the rows are waiting, the Split hospital is the second most important clinical hospital, we have no devices, we don't have diagnostic devices, the doctors are leaving us in third countries, the HDZs weren't at all there and you know what they did, they voted against, and I just copyed the amendments, I made amendments, the suggestions he made, the promise that Andrej Plenkovic and his government in Split, neither the roads nor the irrigation of the Sinj field, nor the homes of health function, from Hvar to Split blood when they took out, the emergency assistance of the example was more often closed by emergency assistance, not because of what people do on an emergency, but there are not enough and of course when the parents with their child who were at risk of life, and there were those who had been in the hospital, the streets, and they were closed to the hospital with the inhabitants, the locals, the hospitals, the hospitals, and the hospitals, the hospitals, and the hospitals, and the hospitals, the hospitals, and the hospitals, the hospitals, and the hospitals, the hospitals, and the hospitals, the hospitals, and the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospitals, the hospital However, colleagues and colleagues did not vote for it, then justify themselves, so that they are not ashamed to come to Sinj, that they are not ashamed to come to Split because they voted against Po man, and they are all in solemn vaults to restore the roof, the roof of the most beautiful stadium in the world, it is a Splitian Man and it deserves to be after 40-50. Renovate that structure, which is also dangerous, but they are not able to protect and restore the people, and they are all in the solemn lodges when Hajduk plays, all at the solemn lodges and on the lamb of the good behind the game, all of them, but when the tribal is raised, and even if they propose those colleagues who are representatives from those parts, by Mr. Sanader, Mr. Ivan Šipić, all of them, Babić, are not there again, all of them have not voted for any solution that we have offered, and no solution is in fact the amendments from the government, the conclusions of the government from the meeting in Split, that Dalmatia absolutely destroys. It is the same for Slavonia, so it is embarrassing that in the 21st century these young people have to go away, their parents have to go to Ireland and send their diocese money, and boast about the increase in GDP, is when parents and relatives, brothers, sisters go out and send money to their families, then we have an increase in spending if people are sent off through money. Absolutely 2/3 of the RH are forgotten, forgotten, it's a monster worse than the cost, this government has taken up rather than the cost, unprocessed weeds unworked fields. Therefore, once again, I must say loudly that they must be ashamed and ashamed of the representatives who came from Dalmatia who voted against the amendments and the solution to the survival of these young people. in that area. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174787	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Bulj will speak, it will be the position of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174788	Thank you very much. I will hold this break on the basis of a strange statement in a minimally strange statement by Minister Marija Vukkovic and Minister of Agriculture that there is no evidence that glyphosate is dangerous to man. Glyphosate is a chemical compound from a group of phosphoruss. The World Health Organization, which is its international carcinoma research agency, announced in March 2015 that herbicide is probably carcinogenic. Recent studies suggest the potential effects of glyphosate on health and environmental impact. Studies commissioned by environmental organisations, country friends, Europe, show that traces of lysophate can be found in human bodies. From an independent laboratory in Germany, the country's friends ordered urine tests and samples collected in 18 European countries. The results showed that glisofate traces exist, possibly found in samples from all countries when taking into account collected samples, glisofate traces can be found in as many as 44% of samples. Also, research on animals consumed by naturally treated plants or resistant to lysophosphate, and we know what it is, meaning it is strictly connected, means glisofate and GMOs can practically be considered to be the same side of the medal of 61 approved GMOs in the EU for imports of more than half of them are glisophate-resistant plants designed to treat these specific Herbicides. So these are both tools for the same kind of agriculture that are intensely harmful to the environment and health and is bad for the local economy. In use there are other compounds that are more toxic than glisofate itself, herbicides such as Monsantov... contain cocktails, chemicals that can be more toxic than glyphosate itself and are still at greater risk than the general population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our minister says this isn't harmful. The Monsanto product that was put into use in the 1970s, and in the '50s means that it was discovered, the effect is patented means '70s, and then, in the '70s, it was in use, so because of this, Austria has banned the use of this dangerous Herbicide, glyphosate. I am the basis of this whole thing, because we are calling on the EU and probably the minister is more working for Monsanto and GMO companies that treat glyphosate that is dangerous, you know what it is, these people will understand better in language, that's what when you pour cidocoric grass, it's nothing left behind, it just doesn't happen for months, a lot of research means the link between cancerous diseases on people. If Austria can ban, why should Croatia not? However, apparently interested groups such as Monsanto, and as I said, the link between Monsanto i.e. GMO products or over 70% of products are related i.e. resistant to glyphosate because everything treated, imagine, the potatoes remain, and the grass and weeds are destroyed when treated with this. There are a number in America, the United States, numbering people's lawsuits for glyphosate disease. Therefore, we as parliamentary representatives must be those who will protect health, and Minister Vukkovic obviously does not care about health. Why are we in the same EU where we are calling for equality, and Austria adopts a law on the ban on glyphosate, and our minister is not controversial. I repeat, two months ago, I addressed the bill on the ban on glyphosate, this dangerous poison, because our children can't be test rabbits, we see an increase in carcinogenic diseases, cancer, tumors, and that's why it's certainly the effect that it has, as seen, 44% of the people in the EU have traces in the urine of this toxic carcinogenic compound, and I hope that you will support and that the president will refer this to the debate, support this proposal of my law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174789	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, now we're going to go to such a desirable position on behalf of the club that some have cried for, yearn for it, and then we're going in line. So he first appeared on behalf of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then the next one will be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174791	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174792	Please, colleagues, who don't want to be on the stand, please step outside, don't talk. Here you go, colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174793	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I warmly welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. The situation in the waste management sector in the Republic of Croatia is not only lagging much behind and conditions of unexplainable congestion in the financing of the necessary infrastructure, but also in a chaotic state caused by a series of incomprehensible political decisions. We had an absurd decision to close the dump, December 2018, which offers nothing but more damage to the environment and material for political trade and pressures and now even worse. Namely, we have amendments and additions to the regulation on municipal waste management in September this year. The provisions of this Regulation require that all users of municipal services belonging to the same category in a given service area have the same single price. Such a provision is actually indefensible and in its essence absurd. In addition to that, the Government or the Minister in the Constitution guarantees the right of the local self-government units to organise and manage the municipal activities of this provision on their own, and a series of principles on which it respects waste management, especially those we can today and should call circular waste management in order to achieve all the goals ahead of them. And we have to ask how it is possible for the Minister and the Government to allow themselves to establish the obligation to adopt a single price regardless of all size and therefore all differences between users and thus actually destroy the logic of the system, the logic of the system which requires that we pay and charge what really creates the cost and also the logic that stimulates users to distribute their behaviour to the system in a way that increasingly more and more waste material is returned to the economy. In fact, such a situation requires us at the Most Representatives' Club to launch an initiative to establish the constitutionality of this Regulation. Whether it should be said that in this way it is actually going in the opposite direction to what the European policy is wearing not since yesterday, but rather a good 10 years on the basis of which many legislative regulations have been passed and signed, of course, an accession contract. On this point, on the circular economy, on the new directive, on its own resources, the minister must have had the opportunity to listen to the councils of ministers. He had an opportunity to listen to the Prime Minister on the European Council for sure, but he spoke of it rather among the lines because it is obvious that it is not understood. In fact, we have a terrible shame ahead of us because we will take over the chairmanship of the Finns, so the Union, which at the state level not only understands this issue, at this necessary level of ministry, so also at the one who does it, but also implements and has consistent policy. And with us, EU members are making provisions that are absolutely absurd. I must remind myself that in Croatia, an EU member has not been financed for 2 years and 10 months by any of the ecological infrastructure that is necessary for the objectives that we have come up with. So the money remains unused, the environmental system, or the communal system does not change in terms of quality to achieve the goals and we are where we are. There will be a lot more talk on this subject because, as far as I know, at least 25 units of local self-government or communals have submitted similar procedures to determine the constitutionality of this Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174794	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174795	We're going to the fifth club, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174796	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday, the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest decided that it would not initiate proceedings against government members who arrived at a meeting of their European political party, known as the coupe, sometime this year. It's been a whole year since this same commission requested documentation from government members, requested travel orders, bills so they could make a decision, so they could have evidence. Instead of this documentation, government members have sent out an indication of a lot of contempt, cynicism towards the institution that has been passed by law in this House. What was left after that decision and the decision was that due to lack of evidence of facts, the case was put in a drawer. Those are the words spoken on the committee. What's left after that decision, a humiliated, disgraced institution that absolutely every political sheriff in this country, from the Prime Minister today to some local sheriff in some small community, can do whatever he wants. I think it is absolutely clear to everyone that this season of borderless corruption and conflict of interest is open and that the dream of all political kletomaniacs in Croatia is finally satisfied because it is finally formally legalized by such a decision and corruption and conflict of interest. You have a written decision to make. I've listened to a lot of wisdom in this assembly, and I believe that right now, those who will pop out and try to explain how a decision like this can be made without evidence of facts. But I'm asking you to compare it to the court. So how can the court make a decision if there's no evidence of a procedure? Will he perhaps bring him in by a people's sense of justice? Will he perhaps make it by the authority of the almighty ruler? You're colleagues from the ruling majority made a precedent, you've shown the way no evidence, no proceedings. You've raised the syncope to an even higher level, you've publicly said that you don't give and you've still made fun of each other, you've told people or your Prime Minister, and your party president has said "you want me to draw you a picture? "You know what he didn't give? What the law requires is that he must give, which is why you made a precedent. And I have to warn you, it's not your money, it's Mr. Bačić's public money, it's the money of a saleswoman in a single policeman's store, it's one teacher, it's public money, and if you want to remove the illusions that are being re-created and I believe that you, you're ready to start explaining and embellishing reality, vote the law we offered, the Law on the Register of Costs of All Officials and Politicians, and everyone in Croatia will immediately be available from the data, no longer need to ask anyone for anything, everything will be available, it will be available to those who pay you. It will be available to everyone in Croatia by automated means. There's only one thing that's sad. This is not for outwitting in the Parliament, I hope you will become aware of it because what you have been doing lately, what you are doing, literally ordinary people are sweating, cold sweat, and I think it is clear to everyone in Croatia who are your real political teachers and mentors. Representative Sonja Cikotic will also state his position on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174798	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to highlight one thing that happens almost every day, every day I speak to people through social networks or in personal communication and say one message, I want to live in an orderly Republic, all they want is to live in an orderly Republic, and that would mean one minimum, minimum dignity for our pensioners who have more than 92 000 who receive a pension of less than 500,00 kn, that would mean that our grandparents are not completed if they are given an executive document of 10.g. Because of the 80,00 kn HRT subscription, and this law on execution yesterday still hasn't changed. They say the young people I want to live in an orderly state because we want to create a home here, I want to create a home, but I don't have a permanent job and I'm not employed indefinitely, I don't have a reception in the state service and look, he can't get a grant credit because it's for the privileged ones. Also, many entrepreneurs address and say I don't want to apply to European and national funds according to the fastest finger model, I don't want to, I want to live in an orderly state, that's what our citizens should have. They also want quality public services, which means that if someone submits the request first to get rid of this request, it means that our citizens do not have to walk from counter to counter and prove what is already known to other services. If someone was born, that birth certificate should be available to other services that would confirm it, not that our citizens again walk from counter to counter and prove what is a common known fact. I also want to speak unequivocally and publicly, not only against this government but against this wrong system. We have the wrong system today. And that's what I want to fight as one member of the Most Club, the Most Independent Lists. I want to stand up against the wrong system because it's a system that separates citizens, which pleases the caste of officials, caste, who raise their hands, who are entangled in the political polygon of public administration and in the county. I want to speak against counties that are nothing but money transfers and are actually developing even greater clientelism, one of the mayors towards the mayors and mayors of smaller cities because they must then remain silent. As the citizens also choose an easy path, so they bow down their heads, and do not blame them because they are fulfilled, because they are disfigured, because they see no way out. But I also want to talk about these castas, the caste of civil servants, the caste of untouchable, public notebooks. How is it possible that for ten years now, the executive law that richens one to impoverish others is in force? And again, in this I.D., we have fina, we need fina. Why does FINA need in the I.D.? Which is another state, the regulated state has a FINA which is doing a job where once again it means citizens have another hand to pay for. Because they say today they assure us you'll pay less. Well, I don't want to pay Finn at all. I want to pay my debt if I have it, I want to pay the principal first and I want to get out of that slavery. And you can get out of slavery how? I'd love to. I'm just working. The economy that generates quality jobs because I want citizens not to pay high taxes, Croatia has enough tax revenues but is misdirected. They're heading towards those who will return the favor by going to the polls tomorrow. Today we have an action plan adopted for the development of public administration from 2017 to 2020. That's where 20 projects are scheduled. 880 million kunas you have to spend but you chose nothing from it. When this government needs new cars, it orders them and when it needs to do something, it means that it digitizes services, that it knows order, because citizens want to live in an orderly state, that's why years go by and nothing happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174799	The next club of MPs will be the MoST of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174800	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk about what shouldn't happen in HS mostly with committees. And here it is, in this case, the Veterans' Committee that I am in front of the opposition and a member and vice president of the board. The Committee is meant by the proposal of the Associations of Homeland War, even received by Parliament Speaker Jandroković, the Assembly of Veterans of Croatian Guard Units, the Alliance of Defence Associations, Workers and the Association of Special Police in the Homeland War, was scheduled to hold a session on the basis of this request for the case, meaning Milorad Pupovac and his comparisons with Croatia with NDH and to discuss it. My position is clear on the policy of Milorad Pupovac, however, HDZ has insisted this, and except Djakic insisted it, the associations asked for it, were then, we know, daily, occupied by the public statements and by Josip Djakic as the president of the board, but this session was called on Tuesday, on Tuesday, this session on the statements of Milorad Pupovac, which hurt Croatia's statements outside, and now for the 12th time, means 12th time next week, yesterday came the morning of the same Djakic to postpone next week, that today at 10 o'clock debate on Milorad Popovac, because of course, it is the same time, the same day after a few moments again after the letter of Josip Djakic without any explanation, that a session of the Veteran Committee will be postponed, where the Milorad Popovec will be debated on their request and the HDZ on their request. He withdraws the term and postpones the thematic session for 15. 1st since the presidential election. This is one great, great manipulation and exploitation of this for the electoral purposes of Milorad Pupovac. Why? When Milorad Pupovac is attacked, they attack him, but every Friday neatly in fear, as his colleague Grumoja said, they raise their hands together with Milorad Pupovac. However, since Milorad Pupovac has also classified himself as his, of course, side by side of his coalition partners, the debate and the thematic sessions are now being postponed and are being manipulated by associations that I have also told the special police, the Guard troops and the debate is being postponed behind the presidential elections. And they bombed the public every day about this problem, so it's about Milorad Pupovac. Well, you remember what happened, so I asked the board not to let those veterans vote on the defense board, not to vote on Fridays with Pupovac, but they didn't accept it. As far as this Committee of Veterans got into politicization, you remember the amendment of the Veterans Committee that asked for the Day of Remembrance to be a day, an amendment, a Day of Remembrance of Victims of Greater Serbian Aggression. The amendment was unanimously adopted on the board so that Plenkovic would line up Josip Djakic and everyone else before law was passed, I could call them, on some, when he lined them up down here in the assembly, they withdrew the amendment at a telephone session to be the Day of Remembrance of the victims of Vukovar and Skabrnja, the victims of the great-serb aggression. To withdraw this huge Serbian aggression, without me as vice president of the board, it's at some phone session where I'm not even the vice president of the board invited. They allegedly called 7 of their Mr. Millian Brkic, Mr. Raguž, Mr. Lackovic, Mr. Ronk, determined by up to 7 when they arrived, allegedly not calling it another manipulation of the Veterans Committee. Is now the election, now the trial is to pass a law on Vukovar for which, of course, the tribale brought it long ago is a place of special pitet, so that you will also be the last gathering to be in Vukovar, Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, forget the flowers given to her by Vukic and what Kolinda Grabar Kitarović did when the red wallpaper spread in front of Chetnik Vukic for.../incomprehensible/... Croatian To the armies of Pantovich. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Manipulation of the Defense Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174801	Thank you. We're going to the back club. This is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, respected colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174802	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, ever since I joined politics, ever since I run for local self-government, I've been talking about the harmfulness of Croatian and Croatian counties. For more than 10 years, I have been saying that the counties are brakes of the country's development, our Croatia, our people are evicting, that it's a den of party arrests, a litter of corruption, blackmail. The only purpose of the county is to reroute state and public money, from our people money. The only purpose of the county is by the criteria of party card and obedience. Three levels of government have been established in a country that has no more than 4 million people, has been split into state, county and local governments. Croatia is fragmented, Croatia is pierced by these divisions as Swiss cheese, 20 counties and about 550 units of local self-government. And every mayor in his county sheriff who decides about everything, mayors decide who gets a job, who gets a concession on any good, mostly maritime good, who works at school, who works at the hospital, who gets fired, who gets some job. The mayors became masters of life and death. And this government has never made them more powerful and never more influential. And this is not decentralisation, this is the destructure of Croatia and the Croatian people. Since 1.1.2020, more than 200 public administration jobs have been transferred to the county. About 200 officials, 2,000 officials move to the county with several thousand already working there. A man will no longer be able to be born or die without the mayor's permission. You've been saying here, gentlemen, that you're going to make savings by transferring jobs to the county, that people are going to leave with the shipping company, and that the cost of the pay will be lower. And what happens in reality? Here's a few days ago in Zadar County the coefficient of officials was raised, for teachers they must protest for the coefficient, for the police there is no, for doctors there is no but for employees the county has. So this government has handed over the state to the county sheriffs who have no responsibility whatsoever because they can practically not be replaced since the lex, lex sheriff, was brought in. And what does the county do besides control money flows? Here this week we will discuss a law that will transfer the founding rights of the hospital in Vukovar to the state. Why? Because the county is unable to manage the hospital responsibly and rationally. We have the same situation with the General and Veteran Hospital in Knin, Croatian Pride. There's been a humanitarian campaign these days to collect equipment in that hospital. Remember the General Hospital in Dubrovnik when the debts for the medicines of the hospital were recently discovered. The mayor was on a public TV show. Asked if the director of the show would the Dubrovnik-Neretva County settle the debts of the mayor's hospital. When debt was due then a state pays for it but when it comes to arresting someone who's not from a doctor's office, out of medical care, then such mayors are called upon to constitutional right to local self-government. My people are leaving us. So what are we doing? Since the county, here's the thing I've just said from the Dalmatian mountain, just before my colleague counted from Slavonia how many people have left. We must work for the people. I can even see who's more into Tudjman, who's this. Yes, Croatian defenders, my comrades and Dr. Tudjman, as commander-in-chief, is responsible for the creation of a free Croatia and we must arrange for the country to survive in it. The people are extinct, 2/3 of Croatia is a burned country. We must abolish the counties, these empires and sheriffs because this is how you share Croatia in these pointless counties disastrous for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174803	Thank you. This brings us to the end of free debates, so we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174804	The next Club of Representatives is the MOST of Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174805	Thank you very much. I would say, since my word was taken from me earlier in the Vukovar debate, such is the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately those who wish to speak and work are taken away from them. However, after Vukovar, I would now take advantage of only the opportunity after the debates which are essentially always painful and which are unfortunately always in pre-election time, I would talk about the false promises of the government of Andrej Plenkovic which was held at a meeting in Split two years ago. Unfortunately, if we don't have the courage to talk about it and change it, I know when I ran for mayor and my slogan was "I'll be the last mayor to shut down the county". Then the key projects for the Dalmatian Zagora area were promised, and as I have said since the County was founded in Dalmatia, we have 100,000 people less. We are talking about the area from Neretva to Krka, a beautiful area which with a few investments, a couple, a few projects, I will list for the Cetina region, here I keep projects, is everything that happens in the Cetina region not enough, little and devastating, and this is visible from the departure of people and the number of inhabitants, but this is the most perspective area in Croatia from Savudrija mainly in the coast and coast, from Savudrija to Prevlaka for the development of tourism, agriculture. We have two key projects, I've been giving amendments, it's a fast road Kukuzovac – Križice, that road Sinj and Cetinski end of Split's suburbs, Split is otherwise overcrowded, built and we've entered a huge problem. Since that investment in 2016, as I pressured her then, the feasibility study and the selected variants have stopped. There is absolutely nothing to be done on this issue except in pre-election time that promises the project. Another very important project since Sinj, Split is 20 minutes by car, is ours, our Sinjsko polje, through the Sinjsko polje passes the river Cetina which, and Sinjsko polje 6,000 hectares in summer times has a problem with drought, and in winter with floods due to the construction of Hidrož Peruća and others and therefore we have problems both in irrigation and in draining. This project has nothing to do with it. When elections were made, all elections in the last 20 years have always been visited by this Sinjsko polje, a number of experts come, planning documentation, funds are financially approved, but I don't know where all the plans stand anymore, documents how much money has gone so far, how many delegations have taken, how much, so the Sinjsko polje is sad that 20 km from the coast, Makarska is close, the Sibenik County is close, all tourist destinations are close, and the Sinjsko polje has no irrigation. Only these two investments that aren't God knows what, deserves a Chetino end. 40% of the Republic of Croatia's hydropower flows into the Cetina River. 40%. Today, when I see a spatial plan, changes to the Split-Dalmatia County plan, there are more wind power plants on every hill and so much capital is being invested, and none of it has that area. There's nothing in that area. A little bit of local administration is that and that's it, except instead of solar and something else, the wind power plant and that interesting lobby that was in the government when Vrdoljak was pushed through and subsidies, everything that goes, it's catastrophic. So they're still milking our pockets to that poor girl on subsidies from that electricity. It's burnt ground. The Dalmatian Zagora most prospective area, but when I approach Knin, we go towards Knin or when we go towards Imotski and Vrgorec, the situation is even worse. And then you remember the only project, which is the dump-out project, which is the dump site in Vrgorec, that Vrgorca is transporting them, you get to know it, 120 km of trash to Sinj, anyway the financial capacity of Vrgorca, 120 km of the Ministry of Environment that threatens the environment because these trucks are simply not adapted to the length of transporting that waste, along the Cetina River, on Myanka. I heard a weak voice and I'm sorry, there's a colleague of mine, which wasn't much more severe, but I'm going to send that message one more time. You're not gonna put the trash away, we're looking for projects only. development projects that have been promised an end to the Cetinos. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174806	Thank you very much. Before we continue, let's welcome to the gallery users and educators of the Centre for the provision of services in the Community of Klasje from Osijek. Here, and now it will be a position on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most Honored Representative Miro Bulj, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174808	Thank you very much, colleagues and well-respected children with their teachers. Here, I would say at the end of this year, here I think that this break is unnecessary and that HS in this year was not the center of power and decision-making, that a whole other centre was managed, which is why we have huge empty results that show as economic growth because it can simply show numbers, however, behind these numbers, the numbers always do not confirm the rule that this is economic growth but, saddens me and I must stress that these 5% of GDP in the last year, 5% of GDP is from the signs of our evicted citizens. 5% of GDP. So they've evicted our young professional people, and now these people are paying, our citizens from abroad on their families, and that's that budget, 18 billion kuna. In this year it is worse and more rapid because it has moved 2/3 of Croatia. In this year we didn't have the strength, I made a proposal, I made amendments that there was no sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons if, this is what Orban banned in Hungary, which is why we Croats can't buy agricultural land in Hungary while Hungarians in Croatia can. Is that even? Now that Slavonia has moved out, the only thing we have done in quality and thorough this year, we have strengthened the mayors, and the counties are the brakes of development and the undertakers of the Republic of Croatia are the counties. We've only strengthened them, we've given them 200 new activities, the state administration's office, we've transferred employees, we've seen them in Zadar, and they've already increased their counties to their employees, to their employees, before they've received these, but for teachers and police officers and soldiers, they need a coefficient of protest, they need... So this year's not good. No matter what economic growth is shown, as long as our people are evicting and 5% of GDP is from our evicted doctors, professors, the most professional people who leave, and at the same time you've given authority and power to the mayors for which people go and the county. That should be lifted, not strengthened. Since the founding of the county, I will repeat again, from Krka to Neretva, 100,000 people have evicted. 100 thousand people, and this year we have passed another law, lex Mikulić, we have joined together means everything we need to connect, means simple inspections have joined together. I don't think this year has been well done, I'm sorry that this House has demoted itself to chips or the betrayal of national will, the centre of power and decision-making in the Republic of Croatia should be here, ladies and gentlemen. And it should, because of this situation in the Republic of Croatia, because of emigration, demographic decline, because at this point people simply don't see any perspective without a party card. In my neighborhood, in Split-Dalmatia County there is no way that in any institution, any, anywhere you can get a job without a party card. And people are leaving. I think this party system in the Republic of Croatia is the biggest fraud and the greatest damage this way has done. Countys are the source of the relocation of Croatian citizens, and this year we gave them so much power, that it's terrible. Here, I would finally express to our citizens everything best in these holidays, but I would express my dissatisfaction that this assembly is always empty, except on Fridays, you will see for a few moments, as they come in, they don't even know people, here I am as a parliamentary representative, I don't know them, I don't know them, who will raise hands and it's a shame and a pity of Croatian democracy, that, if I didn't know myself as a parliamentary representative, let alone the citizens of people who decide their fates in HS. That's embarrassing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174809	We continue with the presentation of the position, the next colleague of Snježana Sabolek, please welcome fellow Sabolek, as an independent representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174810	Thank you, Vice President HS. I'm asking you from this pay phone are you aware of the fact that the Republic of Croatia does not function as a state? No, because it's not based on the idea of justice, but on the idea of a party card that opens the door to the same, while those without a party's ability and the experience of the door remain closed. Their country should be a comfortable warm home to the Croats, and even though our country is not, economically speaking, a soft pillow but is a rough, hard and straw bed, it bothers citizens that this bed does not hurt everyone equally. With us you must have a political relationship for employment at any level, from cleaning lady to manager, average citizens cannot live from their work or knowledge, Croatian youth has no problem with the Ustashas or the Partisans, they want to live the future. Generations that were born at the beginning of the war have completed their colleges, have their families, their former systems represent nothing, they seek reform and fight corruption and because you do not offer them such an RH, they massely emigrate into societies that translate reforms and fight corruption. When citizens are asked, corruption is a Croatian problem No. 1, but the struggle against it is inconclusive, the more we are convinced that we are the only ones from the Living Wall offering such solutions that you have never accepted because of course you are not interested in a better Republic. Why didn't you accept the Executive Act, the Law on the Origin of Assets and the confiscation of illegally acquired assets, the Whistlers' Act? Aren't those strong arguments in the fight against crime and corruption? You're not, because you're doing so well, and we know why. The only thing to do when the official Zagreb was preparing to join the EU, then under pressure from Brussels, of course, legislative frameworks were being created because, of course, it was necessary to ensure that the Republic of Croatia would not be under EU monitoring because of the absence of anti-corruption measures, you were then convincing citizens with daily propaganda those few months were translated into actions in which you also assured us that corruptive behaviour was unacceptable, and the arrest of powerful political actors took place, but no such case has been obtained by today's judicial justice, and all those translated today are free. You are unable to punish the corrupt behaviour and installation of system tools into public authorities so that all corrupt irregularities are sanctioned or not or are so appropriate to you. So long as all irresponsible political actors and wealthy are not punished for their misdemeanors, disabling in public action, the Republic of Croatia will not and cannot be a warm home to our children. What message does the Croatian judiciary send? So if you have a high political position and you're willing to do a short time in prison, take chances, steal, steal, for that, you're going to do a little time for that, but then you're going to be quiet for the rest of your life. What's the message to the little thieves? Don't steal because you're going to be on a long sentence, and unfortunately, the judiciary on someone has to show justice and do what's right, but they won't. You little, tiny, you're going to get hurt, you're going to be squirming away while they're peeling potatoes. Such cases undermine trust in the Croatian judiciary. It is a strong impression among citizens that the judiciary does not treat the same politically powerful and wealthy as all other citizens. We are witnessing that the charges are filed only when politicians fall out of power, and then the trials are being held, and the verdicts are breaking down at higher levels. Croatia is definitely not a legal state. The fight for a transparent society is based on the real will of political actors and the holder of social values such as honesty, accountability and efficiency, particularly taking care of ethics and dignity. I believe that change in this direction is necessary for Croatia, and to achieve this, strong individuals who are willing to go in this direction, such as our President Ivan Vilibor Sincic and his colleague, Mislav Kolakusic, are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174811	Thank you, too. Next is counterpart Tomislav Panenic in front of the Independent Youth List Club. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174813	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear visitors from Sinj. Here's Miro Bulj sent his message, sending his appeal to both young people and those who need to hear it because in the end, only they can change something here and in those problems that bother us daily. Coming from Slavonia area here the other day you could follow a press report where there were talks about the deforestation of orchards, specifically apples and the owner of that orchard says simply can't cover his costs anymore. Which after that, the corn comes growing corn and they'd say okay, where something became a problem for him to move on to another culture, and then with that culture, he'd create an income that would be enough for him, his family. But it's not like that anymore, what's the new problem in Slavonia is now a low price for corn. Somehow, everyone felt that the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practice would be clearly highlighted by the prices that would be marketable, which would be competitive, where those who redeem each other would fight and try to be those who would offer a better price. But the mechanism was found, practically the manufacturer leaves his goods in a silo at the warehouse, it's a market service. The storage of some goods, of course, we all know that these goods that have been stored will mostly be broken through those who have stored and then warehouses or wholesalers are eventually found, made an agreement and offered the lowest price that can be offered. Take it or leave it. It's not just that, I have my corn there in some warehouse but that storage costs, burdens and waiting to make a decision has its price. And there are people in the new problem, how much to produce, how big the OPG needs to be. We've been following up on a state-owned programme now, bringing local self-government to a certain limit as much as possible. It's about 20 acres, about 30 acres, somewhere more, but let's say it's spinning there, and it's an estimate that with that amount of state-owned agricultural land that can be rented at a price that's, say, lower than it is for a private country, someone could create a future in agricultural production. And very often we listen here, especially by ruling who say, through our measures, we're going to revive the village, we're going to create added value, we're going to live, but then I'm asking a question, and how much land does it take, how many people to create such an income? Is it necessary for everyone to have 200, 300, 500 acres in order to succeed through these small yields that they make, financial small offerings to create their future, or we will wait all the time to have a determined government that will once organise the market? The key problem is the organisation of the market, a clear approach to traders, according to the processors, that we have goods that are made in Croatia, is if we all narrow down to imports of products, and even such mercantile products that are processed, in order to achieve productively better conditions, one day we will no longer have a domestic market if no one here survives, if all of these spreads go to other countries which we will then? Are we even going to have production if we don't have workers? We are facing a crisis of identity that the state must accept, and agriculture has always been the one that showed the true picture of society. Do we believe that Austrians have other market circumstances? No, the Austrians only have a better organised state that creates conditions with their key actors that products created in that country have a reasonable price, to ensure sustainability, to have, with certain products coming from outside, a lower price balanced, to create competitiveness, to be outwardly, but to take care. It's happening here, it wasn't with the apples yesterday, it's not gonna be with the corn, it's not gonna be good with anyone anymore. And then, of course, the question is, what does politics do? This side of the right doesn't work because we seem to have left a couple of us here who should talk about these topics and hope that someone listens to us and that they will bear fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174814	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174815	It is now up to Mr Tomislav Panenic to present the views of the Independent Youth List Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174816	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, he would also start to discuss here the thinking of all of us who are here in the Parliament and from where and we're also sending messages on one issue that has been re-convening, and that's a matter of a working week. So far we have had in Croatia a newer history that we have an independent state more discussions about whether Sunday should be unworkable, whether it is family day, of course, and through the last changes of national holidays it was the same thing about this conversation, we are actually calling on if Sunday is like such a day where it belongs on a certain holiday, then it is thought that it is an automatic day, so we are actually coming to a practically legal already someone's solution where it is said, that Sunday can be an unworkable day. In history, more has been discussed, about the right family, about the community, maybe that one day, maybe one Christian history actually means the tradition that we have cherished, which we care about in the Croatian state. So these were arguments that were trying to find certain models and laws that regulated it each time they encountered a moment, which is the Constitutional Court that assessed that the solutions that were offered were not equal to all those who participated primarily in the trade brand. Now in more recent times, we have seen that there is a new moment, that we have the trade chains that have made the decision on their own that they will not work on Sundays, KTC is an example, meaning that they are one more serious chain that has made such a decision. Although, they come primarily from their business thinking but we can see that their business thinking as well as the survey conducted among employers in trade shows the problems they have by organising their work on Sundays, where their lack of labour also affects the organisation of their work and where the thinking about not having a working day is getting closer to them. In some ways the spark exists, there are workers who expect the day off, employers who are considering, but no one wants or rarely shows that they want to be the first, KTC said we will be the first, we are entering the potential risk, and all these others expect from the legislator give one solution that we will be able to support. Is this a solution that will be entirely abolished, abolished for all or find a model where one voluntary, voluntary possibility would be to determine a number of weeks that would be working, which may have special meaning in one area? So it's important that here we are talking about maybe real needs, so we're not talking about just whether there's a particular tradition but the current moment, the economic moment we're in, maybe it's a good reason to propose through this debate, and the real ministry is the Ministry of Economy to consider certain proposals and to get at least in public debate through a particular proposal of guidelines to see and feel the moment we currently have. Maybe we could really come up with a solution now that would bring us closer to a Western model that one Austria or Germany has also developed and the tourism sector has a personal consumption that is significant, where we could find a model that would be sustainable. We are talking about an economically sustainable model, which would also respect particularly demographically defined needs because employers have pointed out that they have employment problems where their workers go to sectors where Sundays are unemployed. So if you have a labour transition from a trade sector where Sunday is working in other economic branches, then there is a real problem, and that could also lead to a decision that may then cause certain negative financial effects for those employers who make such a decision. He was an example of the Ivankovo municipality where all merchants agreed to that and it also got the support of local self-government, so it's not working there, it's not the only one, but here's an example that was in public. There are probably other municipalities and environments where Sundays do not work because there is simply no need, but this moment is now a moment for thinking and a quality solution. We think that it could stimulate a quality, actually quality debate and bring mutual benefit and thus we could always close this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174817	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174818	It is now up to the Club of Independent Youth Lists and how young people should always be given an opportunity with us is a respected colleague Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174819	Thank you very much. Here, I will forward your words to the voters for the next election so that the young finally move away, if I have to, but all those who do not belong to, in the young. I would refer to the session of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem held yesterday in Vukovar. I'd just like to warn my colleagues from the ruling coalition, primarily HDZ, to handle the wrong numbers. They're talking about billions, billions that have been allocated to certain rights, billions that have been agreed, billions that have been realised, but what they've forgotten, and that's thousands. In fact, thousands of people have left. The figures that you have, which you're constantly emphasising, I don't think anyone feels because thousands of people who are moving don't feel it, and that's what the last report shows. The Vukovar you were in lost 20% of the total population in 10 years. One Ilock lost 23%, the parish lost 23%, and then I ask the question, where did those billions go? In what way do you actually turn these billions into what you think should be a better life? I'm telling you in that experience I have there that it's just closed inside the political elites that you created yourself, that run the county, that spend the funds there, and ultimately the users they need, which are residents, they don't feel them. You have brought to the Government the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar a place of special homeland petite, you have passed the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the Vukovar hospital, we will have a debate on this and will likely be confirmed. But I ask you, when those two laws are passed on Friday, will Vukovar be a better place to live? Will everyone be happy there because you created something beautiful? Is that why everyone's gonna vote for you? I'll give you an answer the way it is, if you'd gotten a little out of the middle of Vukovar, then you'd get that answer, you wouldn't get the election for the president, and you'd have serious problems for any election. It is not a question of Škora, Milanovic, Kolinde, Kolakusic, but simply a message that the people send you and will choose anything but those who are in power, which does not change the essence of life. And what are you going to do about it? How are you going to animated the people of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem to vote for you again and listen to the same story? What message are you sending them? What you can do, and this may be an example from the elections that were in Herzegovina in Široki Brijeg, the Local Community of Kocherin where the candidate who lost picked up the boxes, concluded, the police came and picked them up, so they'll probably be somewhere to be considered. And it's a new model to get the ability to make elections come true after all. So it's simple if you don't fit counting, pick up the box and wait for the police to come and take it away, so it'll be counted in peace if you don't trust the electoral system anymore. And believe me, by what they say from Herzegovina, you won't even get an election there because they're unhappy, and even those who fought for Croatia are unhappy. They mention the most recent affair with Minister Zdravko Boras, who received a disability pension and was minister, was the BiH HDZ official and received a disability pension, and no other wounded, killed, detained, missing HVO defender has made a pension under the last regulations to be applied since 1.1, there is no positive solution. You give someone a right that no one consumes, and then you expect someone to vote. Who's he gonna vote for? It's for free promises. Neither Slavonia nor Herzegovina, nor any other part of Croatia will respond to such stories anymore, but the real result is to stop the decline in the number of inhabitants, raise the level of economic activity, and only then can you count on something to be better and have the hope that someone votes for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174820	The next Club of Representatives is one of the Independent Youth Lists, which will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174821	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would primarily address the citizens of Vukovar-Srijem County. Today I read a notice where the mayor wants to sue those who make up what he says is false, false about how the mayor loaned his friends county money. What I must make clear is the fact that an illegal action has been carried out on this matter has been warned by the state's audit. The State Audit Report was received by all the council members of the Vukovar-Srijem County and on this basis they were determined to report through a criminal application, I personally acted as having made a request to the Ministry of Finance, the financial budgetary surveillance sector to carry out budgetary supervision to clearly determine which, state audits say, are involved in illegal actions. But that it wouldn't have been just the first time an illegal shop happened but this is already happening a few times, and I think it's really time to finally resolve whether the mayor is doing an illegal act which is the point that we have or he's right. And that's why I'm going to call on the finance minister to urgently sign a decision that will carry out budgetary surveillance and remove any suspicion and suspicion should be removed from the allegations, in fact, of what state audits say, in their audit reports of 1.9 million. And by some miracle, the mayor didn't tell them that it was incomplete a few days after he gave them the excerpts, loaned another 850,000 to that company, the company that's in the blockade and today over the assets that were taken as an insurance instrument now have to do the executives and all this happened with the move and the moment the state audit began its reconnaissances. And I therefore argue responsibly that budgetary supervision is necessary and that then all circumstances will be clarified, and in particular that we will determine whether the state audit has actually been wrong in its actions. But experience already says it isn't. The same state audit again in my county found that the mayor had given his secretary a severance payment that was above what was allowed by the collective agreement and the secretary then went to the cabinet of the minister. Instead of nine thousand kunas, he paid her 90 and some thousand kunas. I believe that according to everything the state audit has written, it is absolutely right, and I will fight both from this pay phone and from the pay phone of the University of Vukovar-Srijem County Assembly to protect the state audit, to protect their findings and adequately to ensure that the budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance when it determines the facts starts either a criminal application or a criminal application, especially if the unauthorized funds are paid to return to the county budget in a hurry. I also warned in my speech at the beginning of this week that the events that were held in Široki Brijeg in the elections for the local community where a HDZ member picked up the box from the polling station, took it away, locked it up and then did not take over the State Election Commission, actually the city election commission, but the police came and alienated the box with ballots. Whether BiH's treatment will also be repeated during these elections if it is not favourable for the ruling HDZ there, and it is also unfavourable then for the ruling HDZ here and reading daily. And there is perfect right, HDZ will have damage, will have damage in these elections and in Herzegovina, will also have damage in Vukovar-Srijem County and everywhere where you act contrary to the law, one will end this act, but you will no longer rule then but, I hope, anyone else will be, this is the worst we have right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174822	Next is counterpart Alexic in front of HSU-SNAGA's Clubs, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174823	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Croatian peoples. We must announce new good news, the municipal civil court in Zagreb ruled with one verdict the integrity of two CHF contracts. After the courts in Split, Zadar, Rijeka and Kutini ruled that CHF contracts were corrupt, the municipal civil court in Zagreb also passed such a verdict. Judge Jessenka Juric Sojat made such a verdict, the prosecutor was Ivo Sole, the lawyer representing the prosecutor is Srdjan Kalebota, a lawyer from Split. I congratulate everyone on a beautiful verdict that is fully based on Croatian law and EU law and on important EU court rulings. This confirms everything we've been saying for years that contracts in which value items are worthless must be completely worthless. It is two contracts because the prosecutor first contracted one contract in 2006 and then in 2011 the loan he contracted refinanced new contracts with the CHF currency clause again. So the bank double-placed the CHF currency clause and twice put the prosecutor, the consumer, in a very invisible situation. The prosecution was able to prove that such a contract was both the first and the one to which the loan was refinanced. The claim demanded 200 thousand kuna in the name of the overpaid interest and these overpaid interest payments were settled, so other than a worthless contract, the prosecutor has the right to 200 thousand kunas of overpaid interest, and there goes the corresponding tight interest. The prosecutor didn't ask for the full amount to be returned, it would require a new lawsuit, and he probably didn't ask for it not to go to great expense if the court hadn't ruled in his favor. The Court of Justice adopted a decision in revision 3142/18 of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia which found that there was no need to carry out any evidence in the lower courts but simply called for a collective ruling, which already ruled that the value and currency clause of CHF and the change of the interest rate by the bank's decision for a certain period of negotiation for certain banks were, in particular, the Addiko Bank, the former Hypo Bank. And the judge, Judge Jessenka Juric Sojoat, correctly confirmed that, on the basis of that review from the Supreme Court 3142/18, it is not necessary to carry out a proof procedure and the only question that was questionable was the legal question whether the contract was harmful, the judge found that they were a zero object, that is the currency clause CHF and the price, that is a variable interest rate, which is changed by the decision of the bank. As price items are worthless, the contract is both the first and the second because they have the exact same zero contractual provisions. In addition, the judgments, i.e. decisions under the review of the Supreme Court 105/2002 and 907/2002, where the Supreme Court has already established that if the price in the contract is zero, the contract is worthless, and we here in our contracts have a zero price and contract subject matter. The EU Court of Justice’s ruling of 118/17, which found that, if the currency clause is zero, in that case, it should also be void and the contract in which the currency clause is agreed. Here we have already 5 municipal courts who decide that the contracts with the currency clause CHF are harmful and what I now expect from the Supreme Court is that he finally decides whether the CHF contracts are harmful. I call on the Supreme Court to resolve this legal issue first, to address this legal issue before the issue of the right to compensation for conversion because if the CHF contracts are damaged, the annexes to which the conversion of CHF into the euro has been carried out. Therefore, the first and fundamental question at the Supreme Court must be the question of the integrity of the CHF contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174824	Thank you, fellow Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174825	The next club of representatives is the HSU-SNAGA of independent representatives and the New Policy on behalf of which the respected representative Alexic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174826	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a few words about delays in the performance, or about preventing the execution as such. Well, first of all, I'd like to look at a few simple cases so we can prevent the execution. The first fundamental question about this is, is it an out-of-date debt? It happens when you have a debt for the cost of water, the cost of electricity, the cost of taking out waste, to run your performance after more than a year from the start of that debt. The demand on the basis of such debts may only take place within a year. For example. If someone wanted to charge you for water a year and a day ago, and not after a year and a day, the public notary is running the performance, such a performance is obsolete, but you must call on it. If you don't call in old age, you'll have to pay your debt. Another option to prevent a performance that is quite common, but people don't know this scavenger agencies that buy out debts often buy out debt in a way that they have a set of debts, a bank sells that debt, a major came in, a tight interest came in, and the agency shows the entire debt as a new debt from a certain date and starts to charge a tight interest on that total debt. Such an exercise is inconclusive if you know what to do. What do you have to do? You have to figure out exactly what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, and what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, because tight interest can't be added to it. If the tight interest is added to the principal and after that, a tight interest shall be charged on that total amount of such an action is not lawful, as a new interest shall not be charged on a tight interest. The next thing you need to take care of, if you have an unfair loan with an unfair contracted provision of any kind, e.g. The banks have negotiated a tight interest that they are changing by their decision. Such a tight interest isn't worth it. They agreed on a variable interest rate which is changed by the bank's decision, it has already been found in the collective dispute that it is unfair. They agreed on the CHF currency clause, which was also unfairly found in the collective dispute. If you have such a loan and if the bank has a claim on such a loan in a way that the contract was terminated because you didn't pay your debts, and you didn't because you had unfair, unfair debts that you couldn't pay because they were far beyond the amount that was real debt and now the bank wants to make the real estate to be charged, the bank can't pay that property. Why can't she do it? Because the judgment of the EU Court of Justice of C407/18 undoubtedly states that if you have an unfair credit for the purpose of real estate, you must not be executed. And now the legislator has tried to apply this new, that C407/18 verdict in the new Implementing Law, but I think it's quite, quite badly dealt with. Therefore, the legislator proposed in the new Implementing Law that it could be prevented from carrying out real estate if the executive public notary document came from a contract concluded by the consumer and it is dependent on the evidence available that one or more contractual provisions are likely to be invalid until the application for non-power, settlement or public notation is filed for a maximum period of 30 days. He says he can't. He can't. He can't. He can't. So the EU Court of Justice said by verdict C407/18 that the implementation must be delayed if you have an unfair credit. He has to, he can't. So, what the legislator is proposing now in the executive law is that the implementation can be delayed if you have an unfair loan that does not hold water. EU law says there must be a delay in the exercise and I will act by amendment in this provision in a way that I will propose that it be written that the court must postpone the exercise if you have proof that you have negotiated unfair contractual provisions. If this is not done, this means that the legislator is doing the opposite of EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174827	Thank you very much, and we're done with taking a stand and going back to our point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174828	Good morning, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. We start as always on Wednesday with a free speech. The first is the respected colleague Marko Vučetic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174829	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will talk about something that is well known but something that we are not strong enough to resist, which is that Croatia is a closed society, that it is a society in which a single law is valid and that is the law of social pathology. This social pathology organizes all institutions and organizes life in the Republic of Croatia. Social pathology comes into expression in almost all segments of Croatian society and in all layers. It speaks with active force in those who are advocates and bearers of this social pathology and by silence to those who do not dare resist such a state. Social pathology was at work last week in the Croatian Parliament when silence was given to a general who was convicted of war crimes. When a legislative body honors someone who is convicted of war crimes, then it identifies and manifests itself as a body that does not enforce laws, which does not listen to the voice of institutions, but rather a body that serves a supinetary will. At that time, the supinatory will is also the corrupt will. This corrupt will was formed by social pathology. Social pathology has organised an institution that can honor those convicted of war crimes by a powerful verdict. It is clear that all those who are then up, all those who are up then represent hordes that are directed towards and against the rule of law of the Republic of Croatia. These hordes were joined by the president of the Republic of Croatia when she in her own way commemorated a man who was convicted of war crimes. I'm not talking about personal dimensions, I'm talking about institutional dimensions. The institutional dimension is such that we must respect the decisions of the institutions. The value of the Homeland War is not defended by seizing someone, and by our will, we absorb them, and by our will, we turn them into heroes. The heroes of the Homeland War are all those who participated in the Homeland War, not committed a crime. No one individually but all together. The value of the Homeland War is reflected in that. The country's war is manifested when someone is singled out who has been convicted by the power of judgment and when he is memorialized in the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia. In principle, not all of them can be patriots, all of them in principle cannot represent the values of the Homeland War and the peace that comes with this war. Furthermore, social pathology in the Republic of Croatia has also been expressed in negotiations with trade unions. This union activity was an attempt to resist this social pathology when compassion developed and compassion was an important category in which the ethics and morals of a society could be built. She developed compassion for one of the experts that was suppressed, humiliated, and disfellowshipped. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to resist social pathology have stood by that social movement. The social movement instead of bringing about the deconstruction of social pathology, there has been a new, new organisation, a new institution, a new administration of social pathology, which is the Croatian prime minister's agreement with union representatives and the issue of social movement. Once again, we witness a double betrayal and the victory of social pathology. On the third hand, we have another example of social pathology, which is when two students from Nigeria decided to arrest and banish from the Republic of Croatia. The color of their skin was suspicious. We're going to discuss biometric data today, and at the same time, the only thing that's relevant is our pathological view, when we spot someone whose skin color we don't like, when we spot someone whose, or hear someone whose speech we don't like, the first reaction to social pathology is to drive them out of this world. And those who are driven are at a loss, unfortunately, at a gain and we are at a loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174830	Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives. The first to report is MP Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174831	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna talk about two things today. One thing is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, have sworn to honor its provisions and the laws that come out of it. Two things that matter in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are certainly the right to a home and the right to work. And in this context today I will talk about the status of workers, a special type of workers in the Republic who do not have much but do one very difficult job, one of the hardest jobs, completely committed, sometimes 24 hours a day. And society not only admits to them that they are workers but also deny them all the rights that they belong to, which they should have and push them to the margins of society. You know what they don't have? They don't get paid but get social benefits, that fee is 3.5 kuna per hour, 3.5 kuna per hour. They don't have the right to stay, they won't exercise their right to retire, they have to pay their own resources to work. And you know what they have, respected colleagues and colleagues? They have a great heart, they have love, and it's a great love that they selfishly give and care for those who need help and who don't want to leave, they don't want to leave them. They gave up their careers, so if you want your own life, and dedicated it to those who need them the most, and we're telling them as a society through blackmail if they're not satisfied, then let them give up these qualities of their own, and let them give up their love, and let them send them to their homes for whom they care. Of course you recognized it was about the parents of the carers and the carers. Yesterday they had a protest in which we and politics were directed, so I take serious messages. They told us yesterday and warned us that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has not been implemented for 12 years, including children with disabilities and developmental difficulties. As a society, we like to boast about taking care of our children, that our concern is something that matters most, of course, that there is a concern, except for the children who care about the family. And then what do we see? That we don't have time for them, that we don't have time or understanding, or respect for these people who devote themselves to their family under the most difficult conditions. If children were important to us then she wouldn't give these parents 2.5 thousand kunas a month to take care of her own daily, I say again 24 hours for her children. We want to be a society, a modern society, as a member of the EU, not a pack of wolves. We really want those who are the weakest in this society to be cared for by the ones we can. And things are very simple. What are they looking for? So they're asking for wages, not social benefits. Then they demand that the salary be at least above the poverty threshold for two people. They must have the right to be sick because imagine what they would say today to someone who has a healthy child if you told her if you went to sick leave your child in some institution, it would not be humane and why it is humane if it is children with more difficulty. So not just once, the one with more difficulty. In the event of the death of a child, they lose all their rights. Right now. They don't have six months like us politicians or ministers that for six months we have the right to compensation to find another job, to settle their question, they don't have the right, even though at this point they're not actually workers, they're only getting compensation. I can't even raise a loan to redecorate my own apartment that they're staying in not for themselves but for those they care about. I took yesterday's protest as a serious message, a serious message to all of us to think about what kind of society we are. Are we just supposed to be company, organized society, or are we really going to be organized society? And if there was a will, then your problem could solve you know how? Well, it's enough one day, be careful one day that VAT revenues are directed in that direction, and it would be enough for our children and their parents not to experience this kind of trauma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174832	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HSU, the SNAGA of Independent Representatives and New Politics, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174833	I thank the president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the consumers you have converted, 55 thousand of you, who have converted CHF loans, I dedicate this debate to all of you. These days, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia should decide whether to initiate the review procedure proposed by the Community court and by this examination procedure, the Community court has requested the answer to the question whether the agreements of the conversion of CHF credit are valid. Are valid annexes from the conversion of CHF credits. The decision whether or not the procedure will be initiated has not yet been made, but I must speak again in accordance with the current situation about what is important for the conversion of CHF loans in the context of consumer compensation that converted those loans. First of all, I believe that the case has failed to ask a secondary question, and that is, if the agreements are valid, whether the consumer is compensated by the conversion. Because what's this about? The EU court undoubtedly told C-118/17 that consumers in whose contracts the state intervened must have the possibility in court to prove whether or not they were compensated by that intervention, and that mathematics in the Franak case in Croatia is clear and that consumers are not compensated by the conversion of CHF credit. I'm going to point out on my specific example, on my loan because I've also converted CHF credit. So here I have a graphic that shows exactly what happened to my loan. The day I took that loan, the day I took the loan, I raised 70,000 francs and those 70,000 francs on the day the loan was raised at 4:45 was 312,000 kuna. After eight years of regular loan payments, I have reached the remaining capital of 49 thousand francs or in the translation of 343 thousand kunas. So, after 8 years of regular loan repayment, my debt increased from 312 thousand kuna to 343 thousand kuna, however, due to the integrity of the currency clause CHF, that debt is non-existent. So this debt of 343 thousand kuna that was to be converted is a non-existent debt because the currency clause CHF is worthless. Since the currency clause CHF is worthless, these 49 thousand francs are actually 218 thousand kuna, and this is this last column right here. So if we turn 49,000 francs per initial bankruptcy into a new one, that new principal is 218 thousand kuna. By conversion, the bank turned this capital that is nonexistent into a new principal, which is also non-existent and amounts to 237 thousand kuna. Why is it nonexistent? Because it's bigger than a real lead. The actual capital is 218 thousand kuna, and the converted principal is 237 thousand kuna. My actual voice according to the value of CHF currency clause 8% is less than the converted principal. If we calculate how much interest I have overpaid and how much heavy interest is on this, it turns out that I have overburdened 101,000 kuna interest and exchange rate to the day of conversion another 34 thousand kuna of tight interest. If I were to refuse the actual capital on the day of conversion the amount of overpaid annuities with the corresponding tight interest rate, I would come up with a new capital of 83,000 kuna. That capital that comes when the actual principal is reduced by the amount of overpayment and tight interest, is less than 65% of the converted principal. What does that mean? That means that I'm only damaged by 35% of the conversion, the other 65% of the bank still has to pay me back. Therefore, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia should decide not only on the validity but also on the mathematics related to compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174834	Now we're going to stop by to discuss this point and start taking a stand on behalf of the clubs. So he first appeared on behalf of HSU-SNAGA's Club of Representatives, Independent Representatives and New Politics Honored Representative Vlaho Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174835	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. We're in pre-election time, and I want to warn from this place the next fact. Officially in the Republic of Croatia, we have 3.7 million voters in the last election, which is simply not possible and is not true. I will show and point out through one simple calculation that this must be corrected if we want the Republic of Croatia or the outcome of election processes in the Republic of Croatia to be correct and in accordance with the will of the people. We have 4 million and 141 thousand health insurance people in the Republic of Croatia and that's all those who live in the Republic of Croatia. Of that number, take 20% of the underage people as the average in EU countries, so we will get the total number of adult persons 3 million 313 thousand and something. The number of minors is already significantly lower than the official number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. Who are we lying to? I have to use the word we're lying. I repeat, the number of adult persons in the Republic of Croatia is 3 million 313 thousand and something less than the official number of voters in the last elections. From that number, a minimum of 250,000 fictitious population, fake voters in the Republic of Croatia, should also be taken away. I've warned the whole time about that fact, and I'm asking that we all picture ourselves together this time over that fact. In this way we will get 3 million 063 thousand voters is a real number that can go out in the presidential elections in the Republic of Croatia, okay, let's add 155,000 people from the diaspora who should never even consider taking away the right to eat and get a final number of 3 million and 218 thousand 222 voters. Simple calculation sums up and subtracts, facts nothing more, there's no politics at all. So this number of 3 million 218 thousand and 222 voters is our reality and that's a smaller number by nearly half a million voters than the official number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. It's a frightening fact that with this number, we cheat on our own people. The Law on residence in the Republic of Croatia clearly defines the obligation of police or, specifically, the chief of police administrations in the Republic of Croatia who are obliged to carry out the verification and, in accordance with the factual condition, to remove all those citizens who are not real citizens of the Republic of Croatia. About this obligation and all obligations stemming from laws that define election processes in the Republic of Croatia are silenced by Croatian police, but also by the DORH. Gentlemen of the DORH, it's about time. Change all the chiefs of police administrations who don't do their jobs, but these chiefs of police departments have been given an oral order from their superiors to interrupt the process that I started while I was a minister. My people, this is a matter of will, of political will to cheat in the elections in the Republic of Croatia. With this practice we must break up immediately, starting with these elections I will address the DIP, I will also address the Co-ordination for the Homeland Security System, which is led by our Minister General in the Homeland War and I am sure that he or any defender here and including our defence minister did not fight for such a Croatia that will be deceived by his own people when and where, in the elections, let us not do so, let us stop this practice. Gentlemen, the election process in the Republic of Croatia is at risk because of an unworthy list of voters, we must be aware of that, it must stop. As silly as it sounds, I call on the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to finally do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174836	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174838	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate the first review procedure in the Republic of Croatia. I have to deliver here a message from Franak, because Franak has made a very speedy brainstorming about it and Franak is extremely unhappy with the Supreme Court's decision because we believe that this review procedure is completely irrelevant, irrelevant and that it should not have been initiated. Namely, what's this about? The first and fundamental question relating to CHF loans is the question of the integrity of the contract with the CHF currency clause. The question raised in the review procedure initiated by the Pazian municipal court is about this way. Whether non-existent, i.e. zero agreements implementing the conversion of CHF contracts into euro contracts, CHF loans into euro loans. It's about annexes, so the annex is based on the basic contract and it's still worth the basic contract in those parts where it hasn't been amended. Why this question is completely irrelevant and why this question should not have been raised. First of all, we already have a decision by the Supreme Court on the revision of 2868/18 which undoubtedly found that consumers, 55 thousand of them who converted their CHF loans, have a legal interest in determining their rights in courts. What does that mean? This means that they should call for a collective verdict in the case of Franak and artificially determine what their rights are. In addition, in that revision 2868/18, it states unequivocally what we claim to be permanent and what is prescribed. 326. The Law on Mandatory Relations, and this article, stipulates that nothing can subsequently disappear and that no annexes, no settlements, no renewals can be revolving later, unless, exceptionally, there is no harm in any of the provisions that are minor and which may have already been fulfilled, which were of minor importance. In particular, it is the essential components of the contract, which are the subject, the CHF currency clause and the variable interest rate which is harmful because it is changed by the bank's decision. These are the essential components of the contract and in such cases the Supreme Court has already held from before that such contracts are harmful. We further have the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C-118/17, which also, undoubtedly, is established, if the legislator intervenes in a contractual relationship, that the consumer from this contractual relationship has the right to determine whether the intervention of the legislation has been fully compensated or not fully compensated, and in particular we are not compensated in full, and evidence of this is the situation of the principal and the fact that we have not received overpaid amounts. What it's about when it comes to the mains. If we take the principal on the day of conversion, if we take the principal which is the actual principal, and the actual principal is the one based on the initial kuna amount of the loan, the initial interest rate and charge such interest rates until the day of conversion. The established principal on the basis of the initial payment plan at the starting rate is less than the converted principal, which means that none of the kunas that have been overpaid has been used to reduce the principal, however, the converted principal is larger than the actual principal and by 8-12%, depending on the case to the case. That's the main proof that we're not compensated. In addition to the fact that the principal, the actual principal, is less than the converted principal, consumers did not receive either overpaid interest or overpaid exchange rate, and they did not get this difference from the principal I was talking about. So consumers have the right to overpaid interest rates, overpaid rates, to tighten interest on all these amounts and still have the right to distinguish the principals that are obtained by subtracting from the converted principal the actual principal at the starting rate and the starting interest rate. In addition to everything else, in the conversion, we are damaged by interest because banks otherwise established unfair interest rates in conversion. The law did not determine how to establish interest rates and then banks took unfair interest rates and margins that were 100% higher than those at the beginning of the contractual relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174839	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174840	And the last reported debate to present the position of the club of representatives is the presentation of the position of counterpart Gordan Maras in front of SDP's Club of Representatives, please. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174841	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian public, it is now clear and I think that now everyone is aware and Prime Minister Plenkovic is also aware that the referendum in schools, as far as he is concerned, has gone negatively and people have rejected his offer and that the strike continues and we are here asking Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ and most of them at HS, when will children go to school? This is the question which, I think, is now burdening both children and their parents, but also the whole of Croatia. Unfortunately, we have a situation in which Croatia does not function, in which the prime minister behaves arrogantly, boasting about teachers and teachers and on the other hand, does not at all respect what they are looking for. I would invite everyone here, and I would absolutely invite the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to go on social networks, here I will give him a proposal of one page, the support of parents to teachers on strike, which has nearly 80 thousand escorts where every minute, literally, people from schools throughout the Republic of Croatia publish photos with their vote, with their position, according to what Prime Minister Plenkovic offered. And if he thinks he's done more than teachers and teachers are asking and untrained staff in our schools, let him take it back, and let him increase the basic coefficients and thus meet those requirements that are justified and which they set before him. Because at this point, I don't think we need to talk about whether there's going to be any damage because the damage is already done to both the system and the children and the parents, but the question is how to make this damage as little as possible and how to get rid of it as soon as possible. Now we know that the school will last longer, now we know that there will be problems with enrollment in high school and colleges, but we simply can no longer allow ourselves to wait for Mr. Andrej Plenkovic to get off his pedestal and meet what people rightly seek, which is 6.11%) an increase in the coefficient which is why as a gesture people want to show that education is important and that our society is sufficient at the moment when there is money to appreciate it. Once again, I will say that I am proud and as a parent to my teachers and teachers in elementary school, to all those who have decided to reject this offer today because no game is being held here, not only are the debates being withdrawn at the negotiations but all those who, most of them in the Republic of Croatia and before Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, were to listen not only to teachers and teachers but also to all those who, who are the majority in the Republic of Croatia who support this strike. Hundreds and hundreds of schools have come forward today, and I think the message is very clear. They would also recommend that the unions be specific and ask for what their members and members asked for. No games by Mr. Andrej Plenkovic should be tempting for trade unions to inherit them because if one of the 35 days you are not entitled to come or talk to you, unless someone is capable of articulating the most basic request you have made and processing and giving and allowing it to be fulfilled, and costs less than what he later offered to increase for all those employed in the state sector, then it is clear that these negotiations can be difficult unless determination is shown. And today, I think yesterday after the protest, first of all, today after the referendum, I think it's more or less, excuse me the day after the protest, and today after the referendum, I think it's all clear to everyone, and I think that eventually teachers and teachers will succeed and employees in educational institutions will succeed and we need to give them maximum support until their demands are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174842	Thank you, too. We continue work at 3:00 p.m. Three o'clock. Thank you very much. MEETING IN 14.18 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174843	The eighth debate is that of the SDP representative club, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174844	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I reported on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to present a few views and for the past week there have been so many things that are amazing in the Republic of Croatia that we have to look back at them here. First, it's the end of a school strike. It's a good thing the kids went to school, but the legitimate question is why HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Divjak lied to us that there was no money for coefficients and then after a 30-day strike, they gave us the odds on what teachers have right and we welcome it. Why didn't the kids go to school for 35, 36 days? What caused the whole collapse in the education system, and is that how the state is run? Is this the country where we want to live, the state expects responsibility and truth from those in position, and it gets irresponsibility and lies. And on the other hand, we can't agree that this is where the story of education stops. We must move on, we must seek responsibility from those that education system in the Republic of Croatia water and until we change them we will not be satisfied. There's been another injustice, which is why we've separated unteaching staff from teachers and teachers? And this is the message of Prime Minister Plenkovic to the people in the education he tried and tried to continue to share. And I have to tell you that as a parent, I felt extremely uncomfortable when my kids are going to school now because my kids, as my teacher and teacher, know their aunt in the kitchen, they know the aunt who keeps school, they know the school janitors, they know all of them, they know the aunts in the library, they know all the ones they work with. And we think that a huge injustice has been done to tens of thousands of people who are untrained staff in our schools and are asking to get rid of it. And when you look at what kind of country you live in and who's responsible for it, Anka Mrak Taritas spoke about the most corrupt adventure in Europe, which takes place under the patronate not only of Bandic Mayor, but also of the hearty support of HDZ, which is now being taken from the budget of 12 million who could be paid to them by interested groups that are closely connected to them in seven days or less than seven days at the 9.12 City Assembly session, we will be kidnapped by a hundred hectares of the green surface of HDZ and the mayor Bandic by adopting a new GUP that will also benefit interesting lobbys. And if it were a crime, if it were non-transparent, it would be something we shouldn't have in the city of Zagreb, but birds on the branch know it too. But what we saw yesterday and the day before yesterday, the incredible patronage of HDZ and Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic over Mayor Bandic and corruption is something that no state should allow. Our president, who will be this for the next three weeks, four protected Mayor Bandic and corruption in a way that practically sent a message that if he was convicted of being pardoned by her as president. Anyone who wants to rob Zagreb unpunished, intransparent management of the city of Zagreb should vote for Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, I speak to Zagreb and Zagreb. This is what we have at this time and what Mrs Grabar Kitarovic swears is right and that if she has to wear cookies tomorrow to Mayor Bandic in Remetinac. Imagine what kind of country we live in when the president of the Republic of Croatia says that intransparency is good and that if she is convicted in court in the city of Zagreb in the countless procedures that Mayor Bandic has, she will wear cookies to him until he has amnested him. So this is the message sent by Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, wants to amneste Bandic. That's not what we want. We want political responsibility and we want legal responsibility for those who govern this country. And for this reason we need to change Croatia, Croatia is also changing in the presidential elections, next year both in the parliamentary and ultimately local elections in 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174845	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, there are actually no colleagues, dear colleagues Curaj, Bulj and Vice President Reiner. In his address on behalf of the HNS Club, Curaj problemed if he well followed a request for impeachment which, in a matter of 10 minutes, we will submit to the procedure, which is logical. So, of course, the party from whose quota the Minister of Education comes from, defends the minister. What doesn't make sense is that I haven't noticed the defence by members of the government yet, I haven't noticed, I haven't noticed, I haven't noticed, members of the government and the president of the government who should be doing this in difolt because the minister and each minister, by law and by constitution, are obliged to implement the government's policy. Therefore, we look forward to the government's statement on our request, and we expect them to accept our proposal because in this proposal there will be reading parts of the government and Vice-President Reiner what they said about work, or the work of the minister, or to stand behind it, and in some way deny themselves. So this is going to be one test, a test of credibility. What else would you like the HNS Club to manage to fight as the ruling majority club, and that this debate comes as soon as possible on the agenda, so that they will be able to take on the opportunity to be able to bring forward all the positive things that the minister has done. In that case, we expect this debate to take place before the end of the session because it can be held on both 14 and 15. 12, and the government may, of course, ask the president of the assembly to call an extraordinary session to discuss it. If the government is behind the education minister, if these results are as Mr Curaj said, although all that was said by the government members and members and other senior officials about her and her work or at least the behaviour during the strike, if she will now somehow put it under the carpet and deny what they said. Therefore, counterpart Curaj we will listen to the arguments of both the government and the HNS on the work of the minister, but my impression is that they will not be equal. So, the misery comes to the government, someone has to prepare it for the Government's Rules of Procedure, if she prepares the minister and if she writes in that statement what she said then the government won't accept it, and if someone else prepares it then the Minister won't accept it, nor the CNS. The only thing that can happen to each other is that everyone forgets what they said and they write something completely third, but that's why we won't let them forget. We will literally put the quotes to our request. I was actually a little concerned about today's statement by Minister Butkovic and yesterday's prime minister that he would call for a discussion by the president of the CNS over that statement about the President of the Republic who doesn't understand, although I think it's a good statement, but when it is read, it looks different than what the minister of traffic said today when he spoke about the relations of the coalition partners, he said that, I will quote him, "a lively regret". Is that it's sad, it's your problem but being alive, it's the whole problem of the whole country because if it wasn't alive then not someone else would run it, and then it wouldn't be alive, but it would be the former and the desire that as they called it, "pity" would be more ex and less alive, we started this initiative. We'll probably suggest an alternative. If the government thinks that Minister Divjak was doing well, then some of them leave who criticized her. Then let Stromar and Mrs. Blaženka Divjak will remain, let the other 20 members of the government resign. This would also be a fair solution, but what is not a fair solution is that after this and after the argument that we have remained, which we have had and after the longest crisis we have had and after all the results in the education system, remain both, this is a question of the political credibility and credibility of the institutions, and therefore we look forward to this debate in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174847	Thank you very much. That would end today's session. We'll find again on Tuesday, I stress on Tuesday at 10 a.m. when there will be a first update of the agenda and then follow the points per programme. ... It will be most likely that the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the delegated Regulation of the EU Commission from 2 October 2015 will be the final proposal for a law implementing the EU Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161. And so on, here it is. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The session was interrupted at 13.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174848	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174849	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will take this opportunity today to call from this speaker the Ministry of Science and Education to stop doing chaos on the ground, to stop bringing riots into Croatian primary and secondary schools. A few days ago, the ministry deployed about a little less than 48 million kunas in primary and secondary schools, these are funds intended for a decision on the allocation of equipment necessary for the implementation of curriculative reform, for the purchase of didactic materials, books that are not an integral part of the lecture, licences for computer programs, teaching tools, aids and consumer material. However, it was done again in a creamy and way as if the system had no knowledge at all. So the people in the district schools are calling because the ministry has forgotten that they exist at the RH regional school. And these, somewhere less than 48 million kunas actually went to elementary school, went to high school, and then simply district schools were abandoned and forgotten. It's not okay, it's not fair, and some ministry finds an urgent way to correct this injustice because it's certainly not district schools that are abundant in teaching and teaching aids. Secondly, in October, the ministry presented this very important event at the National University Library where it decided for the first time in history to reward the best teachers, teachers and directors in the system. So at the big door in the media it was presented that 510 teachers and teachers received rewards of 10,000 kuna gross for their outstanding work and contribution to the education system as the best in the education system. However, even after these awards were granted out of the field, they had the opportunity to hear criticisms about how in fact most people who received these awards were people who participated in curriculative reform in one way or another, which would be to conclude that the criteria were clearly set, but that at least in a more favourable position in deciding the commission to whom the funds would be allocated to the very people who helped the ministers implement the reform. But a few days ago, some of the awarded teachers and teachers remain shocked because the ministry gets a memo asking them to do something for the money now, means to record certain materials, to contribute. Well, look, then the ministry shouldn't have shown it as a reward to the best in the education system, to the best teachers and teachers, but should have told people, look at me in advance, we're actually paying for the delivery of certain services for which you'll be informed later. I don't think this is the way to treat people in the system, and I think it's a completely wrong approach. Things should be called the right name and people should be communicated in an honest way. And third, no less important, implementation is under way, or the end of the public tender for advisors in the cabinet of the minister. These are competitions held in all ministries and are expected to receive the best, most qualitative, most competent candidates in public tenders. But the problem is, let's say, at the Ministry of Education, 68 people reported to the cabinet for two advisory seats. However, no one has told the 66-person team that in fact they already know in advance who will get a job at the ministry, in the cabinet of the minister, at the Ministry of Science and Education. And in fact, these other people who have appeared in the public tender are just the decorations of democracy and some fig leaf for competitions in which the current co-workers of the minister will be elected who will, in this way alone, drown themselves in accordance with the new regulations so that I do not say, take care of it, or fall in love with the system itself. I think that what has been done with these tenders is extremely radical and goes into favour with the fact that, in fact, in our state bodies in these ministries, work cannot get the highest quality and most capable but those who either have party cards or those who are closest to ministers who decide who gets the job. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174850	The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174851	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Today we will show ourselves and say a few things about a situation that is amazing for us and reflects on a large number of our citizens, not only in Zagreb, but in all of Croatia, but culminated in the city of Zagreb yesterday. I would say by violently making a new decision that will collect waste disposal in the city of Zagreb for astronomical 50, 60% since February of this year. So hundreds of thousands of households in the city of Zagreb will receive bills for the transport of waste in February about 110, 120 kn, instead of the previous ones that were, 50, 60 kn less. And that's something to talk about and it's something where you should point out how inefficient the city's administration and the city's holding company is that it breaks across the back of the citizens of Zagreb. Politically, the decision was taken in the assembly by the votes of the Bandic mayor's party, many of which are chips and HDZ, which is all-increased, Mr Prgomet, Dr. Prgomet as the main HDZ in the city of Zagreb that pushed that decision through the assembly. So the opposition's representatives, on two occasions, brought down the quorum so that the decision couldn't be made, and then at the end of the day, Mr. Prgomet managed to catch an alleged opposition who wasn't, Mr. Cartel, to hold the quorum and make that decision. Why is this decision unfair, and many who watch us here today directly transfer home to the city of Zagreb will immediately understand it. So the fixed part of the cost of waste disposal will be for all the same. 68 kn with VAT, whether they had a 20-, 30-square-square garage or they had a 1,000-square or 2,000-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. The second part will be formed variable that will depend on the number of waste disposals, i.e. how much and how waste is separated or how citizens themselves are able to take one part of the waste to the recycling yard, which, of course, will be very difficult, I would say, to monitor and control, given that the waste in the city of Zagreb is being transported 2 or 3 times a week and Purity does so, regardless of the bucket is full or half empty, they will mean, in order not to lose the shah and passing through the city, and a half-empty bucket and a full bucket. On the other hand, citizens will not be significantly stimulated to separate except punishments that will be astronomical again, up to 800 kn unless waste is separated and the question is how and who will be charged the fines. So when the entrance finds that the waste has not been separated, the penalty will pay the entire entrance, or all those users living in that entrance. To recap, in the end, the decision is disastrous. It goes over the back of Croatian citizens, i.e. Zagreb and Zagreb. It goes to the point that everyone in the pocket, every household in the pocket, will be taken by 600, 700 kuna a year more than this year, so that Mayor Bandic can play with that money later, make advents, share with his friends the cottages and everything that goes with it in the city of Zagreb. A shameful decision made with the support of HDZ primarily through a regulation taken by HDZ in the government as well as in the city's assembly. And what I can tell you is that we will put that decision out of force at the first possible moment when we can and do what is only fair that citizens who separate waste do not pay more than less waste and that on the other hand the city of Zagreb has benefits and benefits from it without having a private interest and as they do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174852	Thank you. Here's what you see. I gave you 10 seconds more. The next will be on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174854	Thank you very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very Here it came, nearing the end of this session, or this year's session of the Assembly before the House of Representatives, is a break. Of course, it would be good if that were not the case, but in the future it would be possible to make and amend certain provisions because there is no reason for us to take a break in this situation for a month when we have so many topics on the agenda that we have not worked out and 118 is points on the agenda of the Assembly which the Croatian Parliament must discuss and where we think there are more important things that the opposition has proposed and that are looking for solutions for a better life for our fellow citizens. The problem is a million in Croatia, figuratively speaking, every day we witness the departure of hundreds and hundreds of our citizens from the Republic of Croatia. Since 2016, 175 thousand of our citizens have left the Republic of Croatia, demographics are the problem no. 1. Unfortunately, he is caught up in corruption and corrupt behavior, that our citizens do not see justice in Croatia and that those who have betrayed voters, who cheat, who are intransparently running their own ministries or units of local self-government, and that by their work and effort and pawnage, there is not much that can be achieved. And for this reason, with the desire and hope that in the new year, we will move in a different way, that we will start working on a normal country from Croatia where we will be able to do something with our own pawnage and knowledge where the diploma will be worth more than a party card, where when someone votes for you in the elections it will mean something that will not betray you tomorrow, where we will have laws that apply equally to everyone, where we will not have a judiciary where some for corruptive actions have no convictions for ten years and someone who has committed a traffic violation or something that can happen to anyone gets a sentence within a very short time. We simply deserve to live and work in a different country. We have a great opportunity to change Croatia, first each of us, by his own relationship and work, as well as by showing the kind of Croatia he wants. If we want Croatia as it is now, if we want Croatia in which corruption is ruled, in which people leave the country where there is no perspective, we will continue the same direction. The first opportunity to change something is in less than 10 days, 22th of this month when we have the first round of presidential elections, I think we all want changes to the Republic of Croatia and that we need to make them happen. We want a normal country, we want the President of the Republic to have a position and character and to stand up to this one I would say to a bad policy led by HDZ, namely Prime Minister Plenkovic. If you think something needs to be changed, trust the changes because it's just the first step to change the whole country. But somewhere to go, and I'm sure we'll do it on December 22nd. Let's vote for normal Croatia, do everything we can to be a better country and to be citizens in a better country because we owe it to all of us together to our Croatia and our citizens to stop these negative trends that we have. Thank you all very much for your cooperation, I hope that next year we will all be more successful together and that the Croatian Parliament will finally do the things everyone expects of it, which is that it brings even more quality and quality laws to solve the problems of our citizens. Unfortunately, at this point, we don't have a situation like this, but I'm sure we'll all fight together for it next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174855	Thank you very much. Now we've exhausted the club's position, so we'll stop for a little bit so we can vote at 12:00, as announced yesterday. It's 11:56 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174893	We will now begin our respected colleagues and colleagues by asking questions to the Government or to an individual member of the Government in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 132 to 139, the current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. Today it is first in line to ask the question of MP Veljko Kajtazi, and the question is asked by Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174894	Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer my parliamentary question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozinovic, soon to hold a session of the Committee for the Monitoring of the National Strategy for Roma, which you will be chairing for the first time. You are familiar and involved in the current situation in Međimurje, and you have a minister who has responded, have distributed several additional officers from your portfolio in the police administrations in Međimurje. But you yourself are aware that current problems in Roma settlements across Međimurje are not the primary responsibility and repressive apparatus but also the efforts and units of local self-government and a series of state bodies that you, as the president of the Government's Committee for Roma, need to coordinate and coordinate. Given your new role, I'm interested in what you're going to do with the first steps or what you're thinking of taking except for the measures you've initiated so far, which are related to the consequences1ma, not the causes of the current situation. I would especially like to point out that the Roma are the biggest victims of the current situation, including the biggest victims of those Roma who have been disrupting order and peace in Međimurje, with whom the Roma community has been facing for many years within segregated settlements.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174895	Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174896	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Dear Representative Kajtazi, you have correctly said that soon it is the meeting of the Committee for Roma I am going to chair, I thank you for your interest, thank you for your overall engagement and for the opportunity to come here at the plenary session and say a few words about this one social problem that has existed for years. So first, in some of the earlier calls, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a programme for Roma inclusion, and the current one is the current strategy for the period from 2013 to 2020. This is probably going into the last year of this, implementing this strategy, and we need to think about new challenges for the next periods. I will certainly maintain the continuity of committee sessions that year after year hold more of these meetings which are actually all and I like it more focused on real problems than housing, out of poverty, unemployment, to actually fix this situation. I'm glad to see that there's one set structure, that it works in one systematic way through a working group that then deals with wider problems and allows the commission to focus on what's most important. You mentioned Međimuri, it's not only Međimuri's problem but as you can testify in the term of the minister I've been there for you several times and we've made several very concrete moves. I agree that this is a reaction to the founding state, and I can say that the MUP is probably ahead of the number of preventive projects in Međimurje that are also directed at children, families, young girls, so these are all projects of the MUP. What we're already here on the topical clock, I think a colleague from Međimurje asked that question, I've shown dissatisfaction with the inactivity of the Council for Prevention. It began to work more intensively, meaning at the county level where actually all stakeholders must sit down and agree concrete solutions to specific problems. It's not like we're a couple of cops, we've transferred 10 officers from other administrations to the Međimurje Police Department, and after the end of this summer of one of the generations of young members of the Police Academy, 17 of them were transferred there from Međimurje. So there is an entire spectrum of activities that already yields results but and I fully agree with that is work and other resistors and I mean to work on it. So, education, the fact that many kids don't go to school, the question of justice, social rights, so one A comprehensive approach where there is simply no time to talk about it in detail. [[Intruder: Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174897	Here's your testimony, Comrade Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174898	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I must say, I am partially pleased with your answer. I will bear in mind that the current reaction and the current situation with repressive appliances will certainly not improve the current situation in Međimurje, but should be a series of state bodies and units of local self-government that should be involved in the resolution. I must tell you that I am skeptical in further resolution given that next year we are chairing the EU, and next year there are parliamentary elections, and among other things local self-government units, besides Roma community members having a National Strategy for Roma, units of local self-government have not adopted action plans. And I am obviously thinking all this time in which they will solve the issue of the Roma community, if they have not, in their budget, brought in certain funds to improve both Roma settlements and situations in, both in Međimurje and throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174899	Let's go to another question. It is appointed by the representative Suncana Glavak, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, Mr. Radman, you will agree with me that there are years behind us of the extraordinary foreign political success of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also allow me to tell the parties by referling to last week's European People's Party election congress held here in Croatia. Croatia, we have also heard from colleagues from Keatazi who put other priorities in focus to be discussed, the EU Council is starting to chair as of January 1st. However, as our citizens understand why this is important and how important it is that Croatia will take this important role, I would like you to explain a little bit how the priorities of the EU Presidency are defined, how our citizens will feel and what it really means to strengthen the position of the Republic of Croatia and within the strongest European People's Party, within the European Parliament, but also at EU level, the Government in this composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174901	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174902	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor. MPs, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. In fact, you yourself have affirmed this very Croatian Presidency of the EU Council in which the Republic of Croatia, all its ministries involved, participate for more than a year. Namely, Croatia together with Romania and Finland makes a trio, on December 18th last year we met, then we actually defined our global main programme for 18 months. The chairmanships. Of course, the country that does not end its priority in solidarity is moving to another state even though we have been working all year long respecting the priorities that the countries had previously had in these three, so we had in mind the bodies of the state administration that we included in civil society and therefore Croatian citizens. On October 30th, the Prime Minister in the NSB presented Croatian priorities, you saw if you were there, there were very, very many interested and diplomats and it really came across a good echo. The European People's Party, Congress, has not recorded one such event so far, so throughout the Republic of Croatia where there were over 2,000 envoys from 40 countries. Of course, after 6 years of only the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, it is one recognition, one maturity of Croatia, that after 6 years it can be the main one, so that its visibility can be achieved on the international agenda. We need to know that the EU is the world's largest donor, that the biggest economy, that European values are actually universal values, the rule of law, human rights, media freedom, and Croatia is a proud member of the EU, and of course we will play a big role here. When it comes to citizens that it is not, you know how ordinary man sees that it would not be just some ministry, officials, Brussels-Zagreb etc., we have brought the citizens really close to our presidency, that it is the presidency of the whole state, so they themselves, because the benefits feel, too, must feel our citizens. We already had 3 thematic conferences, one held in Rijeka, Europe connecting where there were even 5 ministers, where we had one large audience, then we had in Split, a Europe that protects the internal borders, the external borders, the Ministry of Defence, the MUP, here yesterday we had at the University of Osijek of Europe, which is influential where we were the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so where we presented our priority where there was a very good panel, where there were not only interested adults but also high school students, students, and it was a very good echo to get close to, we brought the EU presidency to mean actually just the benefit of Croatia, but not tomorrow, but we'll feel it for 6 months. When we are even more mature, even more confident and when Croatia is actually even more visible on the map of the world because at this point, we are externally-politically, you have indirectly confirmed this, we have never stood up better, so Croatia has a good reputation and here it is shown that the Prime Minister has organized himself or hosted the European People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174903	Thank you. Now, let's ask the third question, Representative Damir Felak is asking him, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic, please. And I'm sorry, my colleague, here's my colleague Glavak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although the minister has elaborated well, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that Croatia will really focus first of all because of what is happening to Brexit, which is a multi-annual budget, and I think that these are extremely important things, and other than when it would be Germany that takes over the presidency after us, then everyone would say that it is happening in Germany, I would like us to really realize how important it is for the Republic and here, after the current morning, we will have the point of the report from the European Council meetings, so I think that the Republic of Croatia and its citizens are slowly aware that this is not only our foreign policy issue, but that it is a question for all of us because we, together with all the other countries, are doing and living in that EU. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174905	I thank the representatives of Glavak I now call on Representative Felak to ask Minister Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174907	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government with ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, my question goes as you said to Minister Oleg Butkovic, the question concerns investment in railway infrastructure. We have been witnessing in recent years, and lately there has been a lot of talk about major investment in rail infrastructure, in the rail network. The main projects that are being done are in the area of northwestern Croatia, i.e. a merger from the Hungarian border to Zagreb and connected railways but what people see and what they feel, it is that traffic is difficult, it has a lot of problems, means it takes a lot longer to traffic from that part of Croatia to Zagreb, the works have been going on for a long time, contracts are signed over and over again, but at least part of the work is finally finished. So my question goes exactly that way when, when will the first railway be put into circulation in the area and when it could be expected to end the complete works means on this move from the Hungarian border through Koprivnica, Križevci, Vrbovac, to Zagreb, or Long Sela. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174908	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174909	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, thank you very much for this question. I'm glad you've set it up for a reason that we'll open the first built track in Croatia at the beginning of the 12th month right up until the middle of the month after 50 years and that's the Gradec-St. Ivan Žabno, a project funded by the EU with 85% of the grants. And the fact is that this project with its completion and when we connect it to the works of Dugo Selo – Križevci, that means that people who travel and travel from Bjelovar to Zagreb will shorten their journey in about 50 minutes. HZ Infrastructure today implements major infrastructure projects in the railway, the fact that the system and railway infrastructure has been neglected all these years, that we mainly built highways at the beginning of this century and that it is good and we were unable to build both highways and railways at the same time but right now at the time of this government a complete investment cycle in transport infrastructure mainly focused on railways. Today several major projects are being implemented totaling a billion and 300m euros. I mentioned Long Village-Chrystics who are late, though, because of certain problems with the performer, but it's all expensive now put into one normal course and pace. And of course on the Zaprešić-Zabok stock in Zagrebačko and Krapina-Zagorje County and we will now make decisions very quickly in HZ Infrastructure and for Vinkovci-Vukovar shares as well as for the continuation of this major project Koprivnica-Križevci and the Hungarian border. All major infrastructure projects in the railway will mainly be concentrated on the Mediterranean corridor and on the former 10th corridor heading east because it is also preparing complete project documentation and study to attack the former 10th Corridor in the next operational programme. Thank you very much, and I hope you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174910	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174911	Thank you. I am pleased with the answer, I hope that the rest of the work on this very important corridor will be completed as soon as possible, meaning that the trip from Koprivnica to Zagreb will be cut short for less than an hour as it used to be. And so here are my colleagues here reminding me that this direction towards Slavonia, toward the East, must not be forgotten. You said yourself that they would invest in it. I saw through the budget that in the next three years over 3 billion and 100 million kunas were planned only to build new stripes plus reconstructions. And I'm saying all of this precisely with this goal so that people, residents, passengers on those tracks can travel in one normal way as soon as possible because today's journey is unfortunately not exactly the best and it's great and waiting and people are wasting a lot of time and nerve and everything on a relatively short share. But as you said yourself, something that hasn't been invested for years should now be done, it takes a little patience, and I believe that then, that it will be easier for everyone and that these times of travel will be cut short, and also that the economic part, according to the port of Rijeka from Hungary and Eastern Europe, which goes along that track, will then flow much easier and much faster when two colossals are built. Here's my request and my message is just hurry up and with this contest from the Križevci towards Koprivnica and the Hungarian border and I hope that we will have much more luck in selecting the performers and that the performer will do his work within the time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174912	I'd like to thank Agent Felak. Let's ask representatives Grozdana Peric who will be asked about Garia Cappelliu Minister of Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174914	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's a question I'm asking Minister Cappelli. Namely, the end here is both business and tourist years and since it is now time and all results would be important to know in view of what happened during July when there was an announcement of a bad tourist season, bad booking and all other black forecasts, whether and certainly you have quality data showing what happened in this tourist season, what trends are and what we can expect in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174915	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174916	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank the MPs for asking. Well, that's just interesting because obviously someone would have been glad that this tourist year didn't work out, and I'm glad you're telling me about the tourist year that it's finally starting to talk and not about the tourist season. Because there are definitely 22,000 tourists in Croatia today and somewhere in comparison to last year at the same time about 5% of arrivals and 2% of overnight stays. Which is definitely proof that Croatia and Thomas are no longer just a country of sun and sea tourists find other reasons to come to Croatia. So the example works because of gastronomy comes as many as 30% of tourists, because of culture somewhere 15%, so the reason for coming to Croatia is growing, not just for the sake of the sun and the sea. And probably for these reasons, when something else eventually is rocking out there in the peak season of the 7th, 8th month, it is the reason for one particular panic, the unhappiness of other ways of tourist arrivals in Croatia and that I can say that Croatia started this tourist year somewhere in the 3rd month, let's say with air traffic and that it was connected to even 134 lines, i.e. 134 new lines this year, somewhere around 25 world countries. So, recognizable in that air traffic, let's say that throughout the year we've recorded an increase of over 10%, in ferry traffic that's almost 5%, on all highways, so it's definitely evidence, which is the most important thing that we have an increase in and a fiscal share so that at this point in the CNB is about 5% growth for the first 6 months, so by 2 quarters of this year, compared to last year. The pace will continue in the coming months, so we will close a year somewhere with about 5% of the growth in financial income, so this year compared to last 2018. When we look at it for a little while for the last 3 years of this government, we have managed to have a growth of around 16.9% of investments in Croatia, so somewhere this year we have come to 10 billion and 50 million euros in investments, so from the arrival of tourists, from investments, for reasons for coming to Croatia, it is not just the sun and the sea, so we cannot single out what you wanted to ask, and that is only 7 months. and based on the 7th month and a few days that were definitely and due to holiday schedules and everything else in the minus maybe compared to last year. We will have to get used to watching the tourist year, which means that the results are monitored throughout the year and income and everything that Croatia achieves in that segment, and that we will certainly close the year with one good result, evidence is the announcement of the adventure not only in Zagreb but throughout our beautiful. In Zagreb alone, we expect about 150 thousand tourists, about 136 of them last year. So, about half a billion revenues only in Zagreb. We went to a special campaign of all advents that will take place in Croatia, from Dubrovnik to Umag in all continental parts of Croatia, and I think with this package of new laws we will also support undeveloped areas and continents and manage to conclude a successful tourist year with good announcements for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174917	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174918	Thank you very much for your answer. In fact, all of these laws that have been passed, and in 2020, and in terms of tourist communities and competitions, what the tourist community predicts through the opening of competitions for the associated tourist communities, I think it is very good and very good because that is how this internal part is developing, in fact, Croatia and continental, and thus achieves that the real quality of Croatia as a whole is then being expressed. I hope that all of these challenges, given all the other countries in which we are competitors, that what you mentioned, quality and investment in capacities, both tourism and private accommodation, will actually become an even more attractive destination and there will be no major disturbances in the market itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174919	Now the question will be asked by representative Tomislav Liposcak to Agriculture Minister Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174920	I thank the president of HS. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. My question was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Maria Vučković. Dear Ministers, given the various allegations and information that we can find both in public space and in the media, I wonder if it is true that Croatian farmers receive less support per hectare compared to their European counterparts and, of course, what you are doing to improve the situation of our farmers in the European environment. Likewise, I am interested in your position on concrete claims on the reduction of budgets for our farmers and for agriculture in the next budget period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174921	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174922	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Representatives and MPs. So first, I will start with the total envelope that is intended to support Croatian farmers who are divided into those that are intended to stabilise income and those that are for capital investments and improve competitiveness. Supports have never been bigger. As regards direct payments, and the media inscriptions applied to them, means now for production 2019 starting in 2019 with the start of payments in this year with advances, and which will continue in 2020 we have for the first time secured the amount already granted from 100% of the envelope for direct payments of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has been awarded a basic envelope of 382m euros annually for direct payments. Total planned payments for direct payments, according to the adopted budget, are slightly more than 387m euros, and with sensitive sectors, so total direct support will amount to 401m euros. If you ask me for individual support per hectare, it's approximately, if we count on basic redistributed.../incomprehensible/... payment, amounting to 2140 kn per hectare. A little more than the EU average, of course, there are countries that have more support per hectare, but it is slightly higher than the EU average, and in a number of cases, if we add agricultural activity in areas with difficult management conditions or if we talk about organic agriculture, then support for young people and animal support, this individual support per hectare is sometimes higher than 5 thousand, and even 6 thousand kuna per hectare.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174923	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174924	I would like to thank the honourable minister. Of course, I'm happy with the answer. In the first row, I am glad to hear or read from these allegations that only the reduction refers to the costs of the administration of material costs while funds like you said for direct payments and support have been increased. And as far as the hectare support itself is concerned, the fact is that it is, as you said, larger than the average, of course I welcome and rejoiced and hopefully we will not satisfy it and that we will not stop at it in the future but also go a step further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174925	I would now ask representative Branko Hrg to refer his question to the minister of sea, transport, infrastructure to Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174926	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here it turns out that my colleague, Felak, and I, who come from the same county, are basically seeing the same things, the same problems in that part of the construction of the railway infrastructure in the area of Dugi Sela-Križevci-Zrabno-Gradac, are also asking the same minister. Since it's already part of the answer and I'm going to extend the question a little bit, so when can we really expect to open the track of Long Village-Kristevci and does that mean when it opens that the Križevci will be able to get suburban trains to ensure better traffic communication with the capital? And the second thing, the second question that relates to this whole thing, given that a tender has been launched and a tender for the Križevci-Koprivnica railway was held that 2 billion and 41 million kuna were planned somewhere, that the cheapest offer is 2 billion and 410 million kuna, the second after that is 2 billion and 830 million kuna, when can you expect the selection of performers and the start of these works? In fact, it is evident that in previous decisions in previous years we have made quite a lot of mistakes when they were thrown out of the possibility of carrying out works of a railway structure, a state-owned company with 1500 people who cannot report now because HZ Infrastructure is the one who calls the competition. Therefore, an agency should be set up to call those tenders and then to be able to report to the Prudence Building.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174927	Thank you. Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174928	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor. I repeat that the mainly investment cycle in transport infrastructure is already concentrated on the railway and will also mark the next operational programme in which HH Infrastructure, with the preparation of all projects mainly on the Mediterranean corridor and on the former 10th, will run and apply for these projects, respectively. As regards the reconstruction and construction project of 2nd colossium on the Dugo Selo-Križevci section, it is worth about 200m euros, and it was actually the first major project since it covers about 37km of reconstruction and construction of the 2nd railway line right on the Mediterranean corridor and there have been some problems in the implementation of the project itself, as difficulties were primarily caused by the financial problems of the contractor. However, with the help of HZ Infrastructure and us from the ministry now it is all expensive, I would say stabilised and the works go their course. By the end of this year we will release the stock from Vrbovac to Križevci into the test work, so you can expect as far as the town of Križevci is concerned that the stock will be opened at the beginning of the year, and then this northern part will be completed by the end of the project. As for the continuation of the Križevci section towards Koprivnica and the Hungarian border, it is a project worth around 2 billion kuna, you mentioned it yourself, it is financed from the Connecting Europe Facility with 85% of grants and HZ Infrastructure has opened bids at the moment and is in the selection process of the best bidder. I can't comment on that because it's carried out by the board in HH Infrastructure. And what I, as a minister, always insist that the choice decision be taken as soon as possible, of course it is made in one legal procedure and that we try to avoid complaints that delay us from doing these major infrastructure projects as soon as possible. So, by the end of the year, we're opening this section from Vrbovac to Križevci, and the decision of HZ Infrastructure, according to my information for the continuation of that stock, will be made now by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174929	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174930	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for the specific answers. It is up to us to start activities then to slowly prepare to reach the Križevci as soon as the railway is put on the market, to fight the suburban train so that people can drive better and get to their destinations faster. And I urge you, as Minister, to consider within the legal frameworks, to correct some of the mistakes of the predecessors who made it and to really see the possibility that for future projects that you say will, of course, still be in the railway infrastructure, all the possibilities to return to the possibility of reporting to the competition state-owned company Pručna konstružina because we have a radical situation that practically performers of works that get jobs, eventually rent equipment from a state-owned company that cannot be reported because it is the holder of the entire project of a sister company. So I believe that if some of our neighbors could have done something similar and included such companies that we could probably do the same. We need to do everything possible because public procurement shows us that we have performers who are not able to perform the works often, so it was on the fast road Križevci – Cugovec, so it is provided by the Križevci – Dugo Selo, so surely that one such company would be able to report to the competition and how welcome it is. Thank you anyway for your pawning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174931	Now MP Davor Bernardic will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174932	Dear Prime Minister of Croatia, I will begin with one of the findings that all Croatian citizens feel. In the country, chaos and chaos, institutions collapse, citizens lose confidence in the government, lose confidence in the president of the state, in the DORH, in the judiciary. The situation in the judiciary has never been worse, violent men, criminals, rapists, free to walk on Croatian streets, at the same time, various powerful and corrupt politicians have for years avoided the hand of justice, the choice of judge Turudic as president of the High Court of Justice is merely a confirmation of a complete corruption in the judiciary. The security system is in ruins, criminals are walking freely on Croatian military bases, police report what the suspended police officer said was never worse, those who report illegal acts are being punished, those who participate in them are being protected, it's trying to cover it up. Every day, the dissatisfaction of citizens grew larger and peaked in the dissatisfaction was also the protest that took place some 50,000 citizens along with teachers. On this occasion, one teacher told the whole truth, he said: There is no educational reform, it has come down to the purchase of cheap pills from China, half of which do not work and has come down to conflict and conflict between you and Minister Divjak. As we can see in that sector, you've managed to create total chaos. But my question is, why did you molest the police on teachers, why did you list them, why do you do it, why are you using the state's repressive instrument to list protesters?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174933	Prime Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174934	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bernardić, I see that you belong to those who will draw Croatia with some catastrophic feather and try to create an atmosphere that is of no value in this country. First you can do it as head of the opposition but you must have arguments. So, in order for me to accept your criticisms, then I would have to say that in this Croatia, there is no healthy growth in our government's mandate, unlike your government, or the government that was next to you sitting here today, sometimes the ministers today popular applicants who tasked Croatia with 70 billion kuna, 70 billion kuna. This is a government that has healthy growth, this is a government that has no excessive budget deficit, this is a government that has no macroeconomic imbalances, this is a government that has returned credit and investment ratings to Croatia. This is a government that has increased the salaries of our teachers, our teachers, people in higher education so far by 11.49%. It would be good if you were some little fly on the wall yesterday in a conversation in the Ban Courts when the unions recalled the akia of the SDP government regarding the rights of people to education. You know how they remember you, remember you as governments here are your colleagues, those who hold these demagogue banners, who abolished the Christmas cards, abolished the regress, cut the costs of transport, the daily, the height of the base, reduced the additions in 2012, 2013, remember these ministers applicants, 3, 5, 7 and 9%, additions 4, 8 and 10%. It's your achievement, your aki. People who follow that subject know it very well, know every detail better than you and the people must know it. So people need to know. This is the government that, with the package that was offered to representatives of the primary school, secondary and higher education unions yesterday, will allow them to be aware that, when they present it to their membership in the package, they will have a total salary increase of 10.4% in one year, 6.12 through the growth proposed will be based through a basic collective contract and 4% more through the addition we proposed, plus 1% of December 1st as a fuse. And in this respect and respecting teachers and teachers, strengthening social dialogue, mutual respect and partnership in a way that together with us and with an external credible institution, we create a new regulation that will solve the problem of inequality, indifference, and injustices in the system of coefficients of complexity of jobs that have accumulated for the last 2 decades. That's what's on the table. And when you add all this together, then you will come up with the fact that in the term of this HDZ and our partners of the parliamentary majority pay in the public and state sectors, but now I am only talking about teachers and teachers, when all this is being summed up by 23.1%, 23.1% in the mandate of one government. This did not happen regularly, let alone that it happened in mandates when the majority trust was headed by the SDP. That's what everybody needs to know. And it's on the table today and it's that package and it's responsible. Serious policy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174936	First of all, you haven't answered this question at all, it's just saying that you actually admitted that the police were listing teachers. Second, I'm fascinated by how much you can run from reality, how much you can stick your head in the sand running away from trouble. So you know the situation in Croatia in 2011. Sanader's government, and Sanader ended up in prison, left hopelessness, devastation, depression, chaos in the state. You know very well because you taught this man's trade so you were his teacher, his student, your mentor, he was your mentor, so the man who was accused of war profit. And let me remind you, that's what this is all about. And as for the security protocol when a protest is reported, you and I know that's not how it works, that it's treated differently. So you lied, like you lied when you said there was no money to raise your salary. You said, quote, that the government offered unions as much as they could 2%. And then you went out and you said there was money to raise wages to everyone in the public sector. And these negotiations last night were actually one big game and one big farce. You came upon them with a delay and did not offer what the teachers asked of you. So from increasing the coefficient one big nothing. It's true about that and it's true about not only how much you care about teachers but how much you care about children, about their parents, how much you really care about the future of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174937	Let's go to question no. 9, representative Marija Mačković sets it up as Culture Minister Nina Obuljen-Kožinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174938	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other state officials. As you said, I'd like to refer the question to the Minister of Culture, Nini Obuljen-Kožinek is involved in the announced adoption of the Law on Electronic Media. So it's announced this year that a new Law on Electronic Media is being passed. At what stage is this process and whether it will regulate portals, social networks or other services such as. What is youtube or facebook? In fact, there's a lot of mention of hate speech, spreading false news, is it also the subject of this law, and what can the ministry do to help contain these negative phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174939	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174940	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. Yes, it's an extremely complex law that we've been preparing for a little longer than a year. In 2018, we established a working group and although the law was announced for the end of this year it will be referred to the procedure at the beginning of the year. the year but the deadline for adoption and harmonisation with the Directive is 9 May 2020. The task force has worked for one year, covering all the stakeholders to which this regulation applies. So also representatives of commercial media, non-profit media, associations, representatives of Croatian cultural and creative industries, regulators. And the main objective of this regulation is to raise standards in the field of electronic media, increase transparency and when it comes to ownership and financing, protect those fundamental principles that protect the freedom of the media and citizens who consume the media and, of course, respond to major technological challenges with the promotion of Croatian cultural and creative industries. When we talk about technological change, it's actually what you're talking about, the question of social networks. So it should be said they are not defined as media, they will not be defined as media or in the new law, it does not provide for a directive, such a direction does not go even European legislation. What we will propose in this law he will be referred to a public debate within two weeks. It will be a much clearer definition of responsibility, editorial responsibility for those who have portals. So not only will editorial responsibility apply to content that publishes editorially shaped content prepared by journalists but certainly also to comments that are very often full of hate speech, full of false news, full of misinformation and actually create in our society and in the media space a single atmosphere, so here's the thing, now he tried to do it and the previous question asker on this side. It is therefore very important to establish the editorial responsibility, which is the direction we will go and to provide for very clear sanctions for those who violate it. On the other hand, when we talk about the issue of social networks, the most important thing here is to invest in media literacy, I must say that during our Presidency of the EU Council, one of the topics that we will be dealing with, one of the major conferences will be the topic of media literacy just to strengthen the competences of our citizens to recognize the truth from false news, to refrain from spreading hate speech on social networks and to contribute to creating a more tolerated atmosphere in our society. For this we are all responsible, very often turning to laws and to us, which we propose, but each individual, everyone in society is responsible for refraining from speaking hate, not sharing such content, and of course, what is most important is that in any and even political debates it does not reach for such content. In any case, we will invite the general public to participate in a public debate on this law, we will extend it so that we do not enter into the Christmas season and I expect that we will be with the law in the Parliament in January.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174941	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174942	I'm pleased to hear from Mrs. Devereaux. Ministers, and I would also like to commend a whole series of reform laws being passed or adopted from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, such as the Law on Libraryes, the Law on Museums, the Law on Archive Papers and Archives, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, as well as the digitisation of the same and renewal of certain programmes as a backpack full of culture intended for the youngest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174943	We are now going to question representative Boris Milosevic, who was addressed to the state property minister, Marija Banozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174944	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected members and members of the government. I'm asking the Minister of State property, Mr. Banozic. Minister, we are approaching the end of 2019, we have entered the final year of this government's mandate and we are still solving the tails and transition issues, from the '90s that have not been resolved yet. Unfortunately, one of these issues is the housing of former tenant rights holders. We still have demands from former tenants who are not properly resolved, where it is not determined whether they have the right to housing or not. We have a category of those former tenants whose right is established but they've been waiting for years for the assignment of a housing unit and we have those who got housing units and they want to buy it but they haven't bought it. I'm asking you right now for those who are residently taken care of and intend to buy the apartments they got from the state. These apartments were not bought by some because they missed the deadline for applying for ransom, some do not correspond to the price that is inadequate and too high, is not fair, the interest that was established 10 years ago is inadequate and too high compared to the commercial interest rates that are getting lower today and the documentation they have to submit in their request for ransom is too extensive and is actually repeated because all these documents have already been submitted in the process of determining their status. I ask you Ministers what the ministry intends to do to finally correct this illogicality and to move the ransom from a dead end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174945	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174946	President-in-Office of the Parliament, MPs, MPs. Your Honor, you've been very good at detecting the problems you've raised in your question. Namely, the Ministry of State Property, based on a decision on the sale of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia, is now regulating relations with the tenants or members of their family, which are the basis of a lease agreement or through some other act, are located in apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia. The based decision is just doing a calculation based on which they buy the apartment. And the decision itself is defined as 4 coefficients, the first coefficient applies primarily to the ratio of the size of the settlement itself, the second coefficient is the coefficient that the tenants receive when buying the apartment as a particular discount, the third element is the interest that you mentioned, which has changed significantly in the last few years on the money market, or our interest which is currently on the basis of the decision is something more expensive than what they get themselves when they raise credit in some other banks. Same things that change for the dues themselves. On these elements, the Ministry of State Assets is working on a proposal to amend the decision, we are in the process, I believe that we will soon make this as a final proposal, with the fact that we need to gather all certain opinions if there is not before the election, and I believe that this decision will be in force soon, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174947	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174948	Minister, I am partly pleased with your answer, and I am pleased and I welcome that the ministry has recognised these illogicalities and that this has been initiated because the ransom procedure is really administratively overloaded, the interest is out of our minds but it is not good for us to enter 2020 and that we still haven't solved that, that we haven't made it easier for people to reach their home. The country has been losing too much hesitation and the state has been losing more and more losses to citizens who have been waiting too long for their demands to be resolved. Let's settle this question, Minister, let's give the citizens a ransom and finally solve their most important life issue, and that's a roof over their heads, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174949	I thank Representative Milosevic. So let's go to Agent Ivan Šipic's question, which points to Minister of Management Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174951	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister, dear ministers. Dear Ministers, a reform has been announced in the public administration, professionalisation and depolitisation of public administration, and competitions are under way for the selection of management directors. Minister, is this reform real professionalisation and depoliticalisation, as well as rationalisation of public administration? How and how are the directors of the administration chosen and selected in relation to today’s assistants? And also, what is the number of those that are currently covering this reform announced? Here, thank you, just to remove one and mystification with what the government is doing and that's a better reform in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174952	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174953	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Šipić, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. As for the depoliticalisation and professionalisation of public administration, the adoption of a new Law on the System of State Administration, amendments to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, the replacement of former assistant ministers with directors of the administration is envisaged. So, as I said, depolitisation and professionalisation, certain conditions are foreseen for directors of the administration, so other than the professional conditions, the experience so far, there are also prominent results in the public service, I reject the thesis that there will be a replacement of assistant directors for management reasons why here, I can say in my ministry in my case that no assistant minister has appeared in the competition for directors of the administration. As regards the number itself, that is, the status of the government officials, and that means that we are actually rejecting those thesis to provide them with one term for another four years because they are, as managing civil servants, subject to certain replacements, changes or changes in the regulations governing the status of civil servants. We will also achieve certain financial savings through this reform because so far the ministerial assistants have had certain rights based on the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials from the right to compensation for separate lives, the right to accommodation, the right to compensation after the termination of the service. The new directors of the administration are linked to the coefficient of the civil servant and the basis for civil servants. At this point, we have 85 ministerial assistants in April this year were 99, which would mean that the implementation of this reform will reduce the total number of state officials not only by 99 but by 120, since both the deputy directors and assistant directors of the Pension Insurance Office and the Institute of Health Insurance and the Employment Office are no longer in the status of state officials. So we can conclude that through this reform there really is professionalization and depoliticalisation in the public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174954	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174955	Thank you very much. A very precise and concrete response, expertise, efficiency, professionalism is what has no alternative when it comes to public service, public service and public administration. Therefore, to welcome is every step that will take exactly that step forward because only so will the Republic of Croatia and its citizens see even better days in terms of serving their people and their people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174956	11 questions MP Ante Plazonic asks Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medveda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174957	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Minister and Mr. Minister. I'm asking the question of the Minister of Croatian Defence to Mr. Tommy Bear. The question of missing persons in the Homeland War has been particularly up-to-date these days when we celebrated and marked the dates and places of the greatest casualties in the Homeland War. In July of this year, the government of the Republic of Croatia passed a law establishing a legal framework to help search for missing persons from the Homeland War. Mr. Minister, tell me, how much does this legally regulated procedure help you as a competent ministry and anyone involved in this process? Do you see in this short period, about 4 months after the adoption of this law, and how much will the application of this law help in the follow-up of the search for missing persons from the Homeland War? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174958	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174959	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Plazonić. The issue of missing and violently taken persons in the Homeland War is undoubtedly the most pressing humanitarian issue in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Republic of Croatia is still searching for 1468 people missing during the Homeland War and for the remains of 404 mortally injured persons unknown to the site of the burial, making up a total number of 1872 people whose fate we are not familiar with. The government's mandate brought together knowledge of 176 possible locations of hidden mass and individual tombs from all available sources. Test excavations have been conducted at 154 locations, with 26 identifications identifying the remains of 169 people. Of course, with the aim of intensifying the discovery of missing persons, this government has joined the creation of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War and I stress that for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, we have passed such a law. And I remind you that the basic reasons for the adoption of this law were legal dispersion and the need for clear definition and uniform determination of jurisdiction. The law regulates all segments of the search procedure for missing and mortally injured persons, the methodology of work in field research through the procurement of equipment and the introduction of new methods, the use of cadaver dogs, air recording, geological research, etc. The law unites and prescribes all activities in the search for missing persons from the reporting of disappearances, collection, research, knowledge, identification and cooperation with other countries, international organisations, the Family Association and all other competent entities. It is important to highlight the principle we have been following, which is that the fundamental right of members of the family is missing persons to give them the truth about the fate of their family members. In addition, this government has made a significant step in processing the identification of postmortem remains. In fact, a few weeks ago, by the government's decision, we provided resources to equip the D.N.A.'s D.N.A. Department for Judiciary Medicine. We have improved through the signing of interstate and international cooperation agreements in order to gain as high as possible knowledge of the fate of our missing persons. And finally, in the term of this government, we have secured an effective legal framework of work, set up an organisation to contribute to the effectiveness of the search process for persons missing in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174960	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174961	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer, which makes it clear how much effort the Croatian Government and your ministry are making to resolve this issue, and this is a question that is important for all of us, it is too painful, especially for families who don't know what happened to their loved ones today. I therefore ask you, do whatever is possible, so that the families of the missing persons of the Homeland War know what happened to the members of their families and that they may finally light a candle next to their last resting place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174962	Let's go to question no. 12. Representative Josip Djakic sets it up as Minister of Labour and Pension System Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174963	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Minister and Minister. My question, as announced, I refer to the Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr. Josip Aladrovic. Mr. Minister, if we take into account that the minimum wage is one of the assurances of fairness and protection of the dignity of workers, and since the government's role is to make sure that everyone's work is adequately valued, I ask you, what has been done so far in terms of minimum wage growth and what do you intend to do in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174964	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174965	Dear Representative Djakic, respected MPs and respected MPs. Here, as you have well noticed, from your question, therefore the minimum wage represents one of the kinds of protection of those most underpaid in our society. As far as the policy itself is concerned, the minimum wage policy is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation, which the government brings up by 31 October of each year for the following calendar year. The Ministry of Labour and Pension System has launched talks with social partners, so union representatives, employers' representatives, on this subject and on what is the fruit of these talks, but also very clear government orientations because it was necessary to raise minimum wages precisely to protect those most underpaid and those workers, above all in the processing industry, the wood industry, the leather industry, textiles and industries that are labour intensive. What the government has done specifically on the minimum salary since the start of the mandate, so in the term of office of this government, it is an increase in the minimum salary of 754 kuna, i.e. in some 33%. At present, we have reached 55% of the media salary, or 47% of the average salary. Surely this element of protection of those most underpaid in Croatian society will be taken into account and later and certainly we can expect further increases in minimum wages, of course, with compensatory measures, and with everything that is necessary to enable employers from individual industries, especially labour-intensive industries, so that this wage increase can be adequately addressed both from the economic segment and from their segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174966	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174967	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Minister for the correct data on the growth of minimum wages and the belief that you will continue to work on the same plan with the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the dignity of Croatian workers to be first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174968	The 13th question was to be asked by MP Zekanovic to the Prime Minister, but he is not there, so we move on to the 14th question, Representative Nenad Stazic, asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174969	Your negotiations last night didn't lead to anything. The strike continues, chaos deepens. You say there's no money. Prime Minister, have you considered not giving up billions of dollars to the Catholic Church? To finally stop the constant increase in the number of defenders and their privileges? To prevent the President of the Republic from sharing a privileged pension with anyone and how will you stop sending the money to Herzegovina? Perhaps then you would have enough to meet the requirements of those who teach children.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174970	Before, excuse me, Prime Minister, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Glasnović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174971	I mean, we have one protest here,... Mr. Stazic is scandalous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He has no idea how many defenders he has, how many were killed, how many were wounded. He wasn't bothered by hundreds of thousands of Partisan pensions. And that is, it is a disgrace to the Croatian people that he calls the defenders. [[Intruder president: colleague Glasnović, excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174972	A colleague of Glasnović, a colleague of Glasnović, please. So you're... First you didn't say which article was injured, second [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, have a seat. You're getting a warning. [[Invader Glasnović: Lie and deception must be punishable in this House.]] What you've done is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of HS. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174973	Dear Representative Stazic. I must admit that I find it really amazing that you mention Croatian defenders in this context. This government has also shown constant respect for the dignity of the Homeland War through its programme and through its activities. She corrected a number of injustices that existed to Croatian defenders in positive legislation to our government or certain things that were not done in quality. We did all this because we think it's good, that it's our obligation and that those who gave for the Republic of Croatia deserve it the most, and that's what we're going to continue. As far as education is concerned, I repeat this once again to you, but first of all, the offer on the table is the whole offer that occurred through the talks with the union representatives and which is connected, is connected to 6.12% through the increase in the basics, through negotiations on the basic collective agreement that continues today and which also contain a Christmas increase from 1.250,00 to 1.500,00 and an increase in the regression from 1.250,00 to 1.500,00 and an increase in the gift for children from 500 to 600 and an increase in severance of more than 2,000.00 kn. This 4% supplement package allows teachers, I repeat this once again, that teachers in our classrooms must know that in February they will already have 5% higher salary than today, that in July they will have 8% higher salary than today, and that in October next year they will have 10% higher salary than today, 10.49 and when we combine it with the current expenditures that we have made in the salary policy, in the term of office of this government there will be a salary on the basis of a proposal that is there for our teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, all who work in primary school, high school and higher education, 23.1%, there should be reason, reality, rationality to look at, which government has increased salaries in its mandate by 23%, what chaos are you talking about? The reality, reality and this is done by a government that has healthy growth, which is not due to generations coming behind us, who spends as much as they do, asked your club president where the money came from, so the money was found because we've withdrawn from the downturn of one percentage point, the general VAT rates from 25 to 24, and secured on the revenue side of the budget a billion and 800 million kuna, from which we can solve a consistent pay-up policy and from which we can address compensatory measures to local and regional self-government units and thus have a whole, it's the essence of this offer, and therefore it's important that teachers do not experience this offer modularly through formula 3+1+1, but that we can experience compensatory measures to the units of local and regional self-government and that in the referendums they organise the whole, and this whole is connected, it's one and it's one and it's a great offer that we stand as a government and a good offer for our parents and for our children to be in the school and the school that we go to the school that we's well. That's the point of this offer. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174974	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174975	You've met the tent boy's request, so they're gone, but now they have a minister who reads the answer to the asked question because you can't, you can't prepare him to answer it, and those same tent boys aren't with teachers, they're not solidized. What you're always telling us here is the same mantra as you did, so don't convince me, come on, you convince these teachers, they're massively refusing this offer of yours from last night, they're massively refusing, they're continuing to strike, and the chaos in the country you're leading is deepening. And to you, it is obviously in your interest that this problem is not solved, that children remain uneducated because the more uneducated they are, the dumber they are, the more primitive they are, the easier it will vote for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174976	Comrade Stazic, I think it would be okay, however, to talk a little more appropriate about HDZ voters because there are more of them than SDP voters, and I haven't heard of anyone speaking to them in the same way, so I ask you to keep an eye on what we're saying. Now the 15th question is being asked by Representative Rezimir Varda to Marko Pavic, Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174978	Thank you, well-respected President HS, the esteemed Prime Minister, the Minister and Minister, the question for the respected Minister Pavic, say it is not all in the schools, but I am interested, but I think we are also the public at the end of the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020, how much we have total withdrawn funds from the EU funds, is there and there are oppositions, as well as in this assembly. And what I particularly want to know if you can tell me how much money from the EU funds has been withdrawn for projects in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, the City of Zagreb? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174979	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174980	Thank you, well-respected President HS, Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow ministers, MPs and MPs, that the European funds really change the Republic of Croatia at a daily pace, we see numerous construction sites currently open and these are not just figures that talk about the success of the withdrawal of the European Funds, that means better health care, European funds change the Republic of Croatia, 1.7 billion kuna invested in health care, change roads, improve infrastructure, improve our education, health, employment, never more funds in all these areas precisely for the sake of the European Funds. When we look at the rate of absorption of the first European Funds, what this government found at the beginning of the term of office was 9% of the financial envelope of EUR 10.8 billion, we are now at 78.3% of the contract, which places us somewhere on the EU average. Another indicator that is often quoted is how much money has really come to end users. We are here at 29% of the envelope, or over 3.1 billion euros, paid. When compared to the successes of the previous government, we saw that only a little more than 290m euros were paid out of the total envelope, in other words in three years we were able to double more than tenfold. As far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, it is difficult to separate the situation as well, given that in the city of Zagreb, there are many institutions that carry out projects on the rest of Croatia. But I would only list a few major projects financed from European funds, over 500 million kuna invested in the regional water supply system Zagreb-Istok, Srebrnjak hospital 430 million kuna, a Rotor 100% funded by EU funds, or the operational programme Competitiveness and Cohesion and the Ministry of Transport 320 million kuna, therefore significant funds have also been invested in the city of Zagreb. What we have come to today, so practically the entire envelope of all 10.8 billion euros is announced, so all the tenders inside the envelope are published. We expect to contract 85% by the end of the year and over 100% next year. What is coming to us is negotiations for the next financial envelope that are coming right at the moment when Croatia holds the rotating EU presidency. It appears that the multiannual financial framework will come precisely during the Croatian Presidency and that Croatia will have the opportunity and honour to close it and I will personally participate in Brussels within the trilogues and negotiations between the European Council and the European Parliament on five different regulations. Our goal is also to fight in this process to the maximum for the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but to respect the principles and interests of other countries so that the entire financial envelope can be closed next year and that in 2021 we can start with a new financial envelope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174981	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174982	Thank you, well-respected Minister for your reply. I am pleased, but I would suggest and ask you to give me that answer in writing and to me and other colleagues, we perform frequently in the public and in the media, etc. So it would be good if those data were accurate, they couldn't be falsified if we had them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174983	Let's now ask number 16 MP Franco Vidovic asks him about Damir Krstičević, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174984	I thank the President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, Your Honor. Once the acquisition of multi-purpose fighter aircraft failed, we were all convinced it couldn't get worse. Since then, more incidents within the Croatian Army have been ordered from boar hunting in Dinari helicopters, to the latest civilian arms smugglers in a helicopter from Base Zemunik. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, with the help of the EU Maritime and Fisheries Fund, jointly acquired 6 unmanned aircraft to assist in the fire-fighting season and to control and monitor fishing in the Adriatic. At present, these aircraft are being served by the Ministry of Agriculture for the control of fishing. These drones were purchased from the Israeli company Aeronautics, the MORH took on the logistics support and handling of the equipment. The question is for the Deputy Prime Minister and the Defence Minister, who maintains these drones and what is the annual value of maintenance? And is it true that drones are unusable for fishing surveillance because of the very bad cameras that Italian fishermen see as stains on the blue surface of the Adriatic as being published on several Croatian portals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174985	Here you go, Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174986	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, and Honorable Parliamentary Representative. As for the Croatian Army, I would just like to repeat, the Croatian Army is a powerful, respectable, powerful, it was created in the Homeland War, brought peace, freedom and believe me today Croatian soldier, pilot, technician they are honest, honest people and Croatian people are proud of their army. It has always been in continuity, and when you have been today and tomorrow there will always be certain things, certain incidents, extraordinary events of dishonest behavior, however, you have seen that we are dealing with this, that the state solves it, the institutions do it and I, as Minister, solve it, the Chief of Staff, therefore on any issue when someone's responsibility is being determined. Therefore, we are going to further strengthen the Croatian Army, strengthen Croatian Air Force, strengthen the system of command management, and we are doing it continuously. As far as the... aviation system is concerned, this ability is strategically important for Croatia. You know that this ability in the Homeland War was very important, that on the basis of this ability and other abilities of the Croatian soldiers we won. She was a little neglected, so this government restored that ability. There was an international competition, the company that got the job won in an international competition, had the best price, the product was delivered. We formed a headquarters for... systems, that center you saw was in Pula, one company that center is in Sinj. It was during this fire-fighting season, so that drone was very active. You might as well ask the firemen, so here you are from Sibenik, that fire in Sibenik you know who discovered it? Police. And how did she find out? With that... system you're talking about. So this impersonal system has discovered the cause of this fire 44 times this system has been used as regards fire, but as far as fishing is concerned, etc. According to this, and as far as maintaining the system as I have information, I will give you all the information, you can come and we will answer you in writing, the manufacturer has complete responsibility for maintaining the system and as far as I have all the information from the minister's post of chief of staff that everything works very well, that we are satisfied and clearly we want to continue to build this ability of the Croatian army and therefore in the development of new abilities we gave priority to the centre for the unemployed aviation systems. Besides, you know we've developed a new battle leader center. It's these things about certain non-discipline that we're even better, that we have even better, better leaders, that our leaders lead by personal example and believe me, I do this as a minister in the leadership of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174987	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174988	Your Honor, you did not answer my question at all, so I asked you explicitly. The impression you're leaving with the citizens is that you don't run the system at all, that things are happening chaoticly, and the affairs have become everyday. This is what is transferred from the civil sector, and unfortunately the Croatian army shares it. This government is constantly producing chaos and chaos. Here comes the end and your role in question. Some incidents you didn't respond in time, some incidents you punished, this last one, you punished really, but basically what the citizens see is a big one as well and I would ask you to answer my questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174989	We are now going to the 17th question representative Kreso Beljak is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174990	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has witnessed both us and you and all together in the last few months and probably longer complete system breakdown. I will not criticize you personally for this because I believe that you are not personally and as a person, as a man, as a politician, but you participate as Prime Minister. And I think that you have basically lost ends in your political action and that you are taking political responsibility personally, which I don't think is good for you either, especially it's not good for you, and it's not good for the Republic of Croatia or for the Croatian society. Namely, all the affairs that took place that culminated, or events that culminated in this great protest in Ban Jelačić Square, are focused on you, but you are not the Minister of Education, this should have been solved by the Minister of Education or you should have solved it. The affairs in the morh or arms smuggling, let's be completely open. Weapon in the Croatian Army, you are not responsible for this, but the arrows are directed at you, for which the minister is responsible, or for those who have made it, it is called political responsibility. You're taking on the political responsibility of all the resistors at this point, and it can't just be like that. And every sane thinking man that Andrej Plenkovic can't be the answer to everything, which he is. I repeat, it is bad for you personally, it is bad for all of Croatia and it is bad for Croatian society and Croatian future. People question what kind of Prime Minister can't solve problems among his subordinates, which are ministers, you are not the commander of the Croatian army. This should be addressed by the minister, and I believe that you still have the opportunity in these few months to put things in place for Croatian democracy to function because Because the state... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174991	Comrade Whiteman, time's up. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174992	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Beljak, I'm trying to understand the thread of what you're essentially trying to ask or in some way comment on, the real question was essentially not there. So you refer to this question that MP Vidovic asked Deputy Prime Minister Krstic, he answered you. Hierarchical all those responsible for this disrespect of discipline in the Croatian military system have been resolved, new commanders have been appointed, according to what we have today, the Zadar County Police Administration has filed a criminal report, we will see what will eventually be. According to what we know now, what you're saying about smuggling, it wasn't, what it was was unauthorized entry into the area of the base in Zemunik and those responsible for it were responsible. Therefore, both the Deputy Prime Minister and the President of the Republic who have legal and constitutional competences for the appointment or resolution of commanders in the Croatian Army system have done so. So that's the first one. As far as this second element is concerned, this is about the message, the signal from the representatives of the education system, primary school, high school and higher education. I have to repeat that because it's very important that we understand that. The government runs a consistent wage policy, we can't look at three segments that make the total income of any of the employees isolated. What goes through the basics and basic collective agreement, what is negotiated through border or special agreements like this yesterday which is on the table as supplements or coefficients that are regulated by the regulation, there is no silo, there is no module, there is only an integrated and complete approach, and this integrated and complete approach with what is on the table, as a constructive, quality message to teachers, teachers, teachers, professors, everyone in the education system is very good. She's very good, she's never been better. So far, an increase in salary is 11.49% in our term of office. Next year, another 10.40. So all in all 23.1%. And if someone has a choice of whether they want to have a higher salary next year in total compared to October 2016, on October 2020. 23.1%. So I think it's a pretty simple and easy choice, what's the alternative? The alternative is to have a lower salary, to talk about only one segment. No, this segment, which is this regulation which, I can freely say now, is the product of different influences of politics, of pawns, of negotiations over the past two decades and of the kind of injustice that has sparked. She created a system that wasn't even and that's why it needs to be evened out. And that's why we said, "Be our partners, partners, friends, associates, experts, union representatives," many of them have been dealing with this topic for 30 years more than any of us here in this room. And their experience and knowledge is very useful. And they're aware of the whole of this salary policy. It is therefore important to take this whole into account in the decision-making process in the referendums, union memberships, teachers and others. Without a whole decision making is not sufficiently informed, only the whole solves the problem and the whole is 10.4 and 23.1%) in the mandate, respectively. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174993	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174994	You didn't listen to me, you're taking on your responsibilities again and I just need to confirm that your attempts to present your side of the truth to a teacher, teacher and teacher who you've had a chance to see how many have come to the square and there are 3x so many more in the country. That's very sweet and very sweet of you, but it won't pass. So you don't address HDZ's electoral body, you address Croatian educational staff where your support, your party's support is not over 5%. So you're talking to high school, let's say, to be completely open, smart, maybe even the smartest people in Croatia. They told you what they thought of your statements. And you keep insisting on your truth, and you keep trying to turn the teachers around and you won't succeed. Nor will those forces in the Croatian political life succeed who are also trying to usurp the strike of educational workers. It won't work, it won't work. It just won't go no matter what you do. Teachers are simply the best that Croatia has at the moment and it best told you both personally and to HDZ and not the whole government, enough, you are leaving because this is how you ruin Croatia's future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174995	We are now going to the 18th issue of Representative Emil Daus, asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174996	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. I believe you agree with me that the funds from the eu funds are if we use them strategically and wisely. One of the main sources of economic growth and investment in public municipal and social infrastructure. We're not going to be hypocrites, so let's just say we don't put this government's efforts into getting that money. But it should also be open to the end and say that in Croatia, however, the funds are partly politicised in that part of the additional point towards territoriality or not getting points due to greater development. Because how else do you explain that because on the one hand it wanted to help less developed cities and municipalities in the interior of the country, which, on the other hand, blocked those more advanced, more prepared, more ready? Those whose implementation of their projects would lead to much greater effects on the wider community and Croatia as a whole. Because it is not normal and it is not correct that quality projects of some units do not pass because projects of less quality and less developmental impact because of their territoriality or level of development. Well, I guess we all aim as much as possible at using eu money. My question is whether you have seen your mistake, whether the government plans to remove development and territorial membership rather than the city, municipality or county, as a benchmark of the EUR funds score, or whether projects will finally start to score at their quality and impact after implementation. If the answer is yes, then I'd like to know when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174997	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174998	Thank you, well-respected representative Daus, for your interest and understanding the importance and absorption of eu funds for overall development and for investments in Croatia. I share your view that it is this part of the funding that comes through eu projects that is both a stopper and an investment in growth, and in particular the realisation of major important projects, those that are very visible, capital, infrastructure, such as the Peljega Bridge, such as a wide-ranging infrastructure, such as co-financing of LNG, such as a series of projects in the field of science and education. This is why we have a propo total budget of the Ministry of Science and Education 18.3 billion kuna, which was unimaginable in Croatia for 2020. 18.3 billion kuna, that speaks of the priority of science, education, dysresia. As for your county, so far, the Istrian County has agreed 274m euros or 2.1 billion kuna. Do you have any idea how much of this is agreed in the term of office of this government? 264m euros from a total of 274, 264 in the government's mandate. You understand very well that the main purpose of cohesion policy, even regional development, is to raise European resources to an average level of EU development to those parts of Member States that are less developed. Fortunately, Istria County, Primorje-Gorski County, in one segment, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the city of Zagreb are among the most developed in the Republic of Croatia of all regional self-government units, only four others still have to get injections to move on. And the policy of fund absorption is that part of the asset is channeled to those who need it most, but we don't ignore it, and according to this data, those who are... So take a look at the pulse hospital, the position of the government of the Republic of Croatia, partnership and dialogue with the county, with Mr. Mayor Radin, partnership and dialogue with the hospital director in Pula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An agreement that allowed the full funding of the largest investment in the health system in Istria County. I will remind once again, the government's meeting in Pula, in September 2018, the value of projects 1.5 billion kuna for cities, municipalities and our partners in Istria County, a huge engagement, not to mention how unfortunately the state has paid guarantees for the Uljannik not of these governments, the earlier governments. I won't mention the number at all. So why am I telling you this? I'm telling you because you have in mind that even the most developed part of Croatia is important to our government, that the funds are being channeled, that they are being implemented in quality, that today we are practically 78% of the contract in the entire financial envelope, that we have paid more than 30%, so more than 30% is paid, the money has come to users. It also raises the percentage of verification of these projects and we will be confident, absorbing the entire financial envelope, which is our incentive for negotiations on a new budget framework for the next 7 years that is moving soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u174999	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175000	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister, as we'd like to be told in Istria, I'm in the spears, you're in the Spains. I understand the whole context, but if we know that the use of money from European money raises investment, GDP, the general development of the country, that's where you and I agree, we cannot accept the fact that the regulations of this country make it impossible for everyone to use these funds equally. It's been said for years, you've been preparing documentation, building permits, you're ready to open up competitions, and people have prepared it all, we know it takes time, effort and money to prepare it all, and then you decide to be more equal to all of them, the Orwell ones, some equaler than others. No one is against helping the less developed, and in central Istria there are mountain-mounted municipalities but it can be done through special measures but not at the expense of others because it's not development, it's not progress, it's kind of a back-to-back angle. If this is not the way the points were cut off by the ones that work and create, it wouldn't be the subject at all, but it's the very generators of development that are being cut off. And this is not the decentralisation everyone talks about, which everyone likes to talk about, this is an example of a centralised decision where artificially trying to create something and we know from a closer and further history that everything that is created in one artificial way is going down. This is actually the creation of division, in fact, the politicization of European funds, but we need to be together together. If we want to make full use of them, then European funds must be depoliticalized, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175001	Question number 19, MP Goran Aleksic asks Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175002	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric, the related question is, what is it during 2018? Tax administration found cases of discrepancies in the amount of assets acquired and acquired, and how much tax is charged on the basis of these discrepancies? Then in how many cases and in which places the IRS has been applied in the last 10 years in relation to the comparison of acquired assets and sources of funds. Article 76(1) Income tax laws? I quote articles and articles for the correct identification of income tax and other taxes, the Tax Administration is obliged to compare data on natural persons at your disposal on the basis of comparison data to collect other data relevant for taxation and to continue to be considered to be the difference between the value of acquired assets, significant expenditure made especially for luxury entertainment and entertainment on the one hand and proven mid-term funds for its acquisition on the other hand. The tax administration annually establishes about one hundred cases of disproportionateness between acquired assets and the source of funds during the tax period observed. In view of the number of acquired assets of more than £200,000, the Tax Administration should examine any such case of acquisition of assets and have several tens of thousands in one year of such individual cases. We are familiar with cases of acquisition of valuable property and other assets where we have reason to suspect that their value is multiple above the legal means. This, apart from a significant loss to the state budget, means a major failure in the fight against corruption. As an example of large acquired assets, they can indicate that in 2018 more than 5000 cars were purchased in Croatia, each cost at least 50,000 euros. In these 5000 cases, the Tax Administration had to verify the compliance of acquired assets and incomes that would be the source of the assets and the tax administration did not seem to have done so. In fact, the Law on the Origin of Assets is not as necessary to us as it seems to the public because we have an Income Tax Act that has a strong mechanism prescribed to determine someone's illegally acquired property. I'm asking for answers, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175003	Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175004	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, thank you for asking. As in several occasions and rounds of talks and discussions on tax changes in the context of tax reform, this issue has been affirmed several times and it is good, among other things, to explain a little further through this vision and, among other things, to Croatian citizens in some ways, what the IRS is doing. So, you said well, according to the Tax Administration Act, you define the tasks and tasks that the Tax Administration does, among other things, have a whole series of them, of course, dealing with this issue, which is to determine the possible differences, or disproportionateness between the earned and created assets and what is seen through the system, for example, in this particular case, income tax. So what's important to say is, in some tax period, the tax administration collects data on the tax and non-taxable receipts of natural persons, so the taxpayers of income tax and compares them with different types of data, for example, the acquired property of those same persons or some other expenditures and, on the one hand, are also well said, the source of data the tax administration has, on the other hand, the data sources may be the taxpayers themselves in their own statements, statements, reports and so forth, but they may be, of course, some thirdly, the other sources that are then used. You know well, therefore, if the disproportionateness between assets and income is established in accordance with and with the positive regulations which are part of these tax changes that have come into force, then for such established disproportionateness, or treated as other income, a unique rate of income tax of 36% is calculated by 50%, so de facto 54%. As regards these figures you have asked, in the last 9 years, from 2010 to 2018, the tax administration has initiated a total of 1567 procedures to determine the disproportionateity between the declared receipts of assets. Irregularities identified in these 952, with a total of over 300 million kuna newly established liabilities, so about 306 million kunas. I also have to say, when we look at years by year, there is not exactly grateful to work because many of these processes are actually long lasting, like here, example last year, 2018, 36 new ones were launched, but 69 were also completed from previous periods. So the appeal procedures and some other procedures which, of course, are in line with the legal obligations, so not a small number of times such processes go beyond the duration of one year, which is why I've given you the figures of these past 10 years, which I say again, refer exclusively to the detour of the tax administration as one of the tax authorities. However, the tax administration and other tax authorities within the Ministry of Finance are also cooperating with other bodies, we will call this prosecution, exchange information, participate in different procedures, etc., for which they do not specifically keep separate records but are jointly kept at different levels. These are the data, these are records that are very exact, which are only from the tax administration's department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175005	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175006	Thank you. Thank you for your response, dear Minister Maric. I can't say I'm unhappy with the answer. The answer is as I asked the question, so you have answered probably exactly, I believe that it is as you said, but I will ask you another question, but in writing, where I will look for an answer to some additional details where I will ask questions about the quality of the work of the tax administration itself and for the possibility of improving that work, whether we can achieve a better work of the tax administration in the sense that we still find, I believe there is a lot of, a lot more cases where the property that has been acquired has not been obtained in a legal way, but it has simply not been established in the last period when it has been considered and I believe that some progress is possible in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175007	The 20th question, legislator Silvano Hrelja asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175008	Your Honor, Mr. President. You recently stated that your government is a friend of workers and pensioners. In light of your sayings, I must remind you that on October 10th of this year, as Prime Minister, you signed an opinion on my proposal for a Voluntary Health Insurance Act where your statement is practically denied. Namely, you said that users of guaranteed minimum benefits in the social care system belonging to the category of socially endangered persons are entitled to an additional health insurance policy on the burden of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and the Government takes other actions, and any initiative is welcome. Looks like you haven't looked at the contents. The content of this law speaks of what your Minister Pavić has on several occasions promised in front of the media and in this Assembly speaker and this Assembly speaker that he will find a solution to increase the censorship for supplementary health insurance because in each pension adjustment, someone crosses those censorships set up in 2004, the crossing of the censorship by 5 or 10 kuna and loses the right to additional health insurance. Or two pensioners, husband and wife live on one pension of three thousand kuna, paid for them by the state's supplemental policy. When one dies, the survivor has a right to 2100 and now he's rich, no longer has the right to an additional health insurance policy, therefore, all because of the non-moving of supplemental health insurance censorships.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175009	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175010	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. We know about this problem, we know about the censorship problem, we know what happens when pensions increase, in our mandate pensions have increased by more than 10% in general, and 13% for those who have the lowest pensions. You know very well, and Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr. Aladrovic, and all of us in the government in dialogue with representatives of the pensioners' unions will try to find a solution so that when that threshold is crossed, we will essentially lead to an increase in the unfavourable position. We've registered the problem, we need to find a solution that would be fair and that would correct one step forward, and then one step back. The urgency is that we keep moving forward when it comes to pensioners and workers and salaries and pensions. So, we're working on it, but this week, I will personally receive representatives of the Retirement Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175011	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175012	Your Honor, Mr. President. I thought you stood up for parliamentary democracy, too, and that the strength of the arguments is more important to you than the strength of the street. Why? Because you have a bill that justifiably speaks about how much wages have grown and how much the censors haven't grown. We asked in the bill, but it looks like it's a positional proposal, so it's bad, we've been looking for half the salary growth in the last 5 years. to increase the censorships from 1.516.00 to 1,830,00 kn for a family member, or 1,939,00 kn to 2,340,00 kn, which is exactly 20.6% of the salary growth in the last 15,15 g. So we were normal, rational, moderate because of something that hasn't happened all these years, it hasn't, it hasn't happened. However, it is obviously appropriate for you to negotiate for less money with the union, the Croatian Retired Union, and that is not exactly how it works. It is your job and your activity is also in the strategy against poverty and social exclusion in the Republic of Croatia that you have stated that you will monitor the needs of the most vulnerable groups to exercise the right to additional health insurance. Total number of persons eligible for supplementary health insurance, which are provided in the country in 2012. was 944 000, today there are below, under 500, 500 000, which is why the Croatian party of pensioners to show the argument of force has issued a petition, a petition that we will collect from 15 November to 15 December throughout the Republic, and this is what the oldest among us, the oldest voters, the oldest citizens of the Republic of Croatia, do their best. I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175013	Now let's go to Question 21, Agent Ivan Kirin asks him to Drazen Bosnjakovic, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175014	Dear President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister with the Ministers, I refer to the question of the respected Justice Minister Mr. Bošnjak, on the European Justice Day, so on October 25th, you presented what the electronic communication of mandatory participants, such as lawyers, bankruptcy managers and court experts in or with commercial courts, announced that soon this form of communication will be applicable by the end of this year and in municipal courts, when will citizens benefit from it, when will citizens be able to communicate independently with courts without having to pay lawyers and will lawyers be satisfied? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175015	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175016	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, thank you for this question, it is true that we presented to the entire public on 25.10. what it looks like to be electronic communication in commercial courts and trade courts because there are cases where large-scale disputes are being conducted so that I say that communication between bankruptcy managers, lawyers, courts, then in commercial courts has already been brought to life, day by day is higher, it brings us speed, simplicity, it's just cheaper the whole process, there's no paper, we're deprived of such obligations. There we presented actually some other things that we're going to use and I think there's a period in front of us where digitization is being spread into all the jurisprudence. What is our next step and is announced is such a form and the way communication goes to municipal courts where we have the most objects and this way will actually lead to the speed of action, we can't replace man, it's always the judge who will decide, but we can give him tools that will be faster, it's the digitisation of what will give him speed, and it will benefit all citizens because faster objects will be solved. What we've heard about is that the judiciary is in a bad situation, that it's never been worse, it's just not true, because it's about that we've solved a lot of backlogs, that's what a million-and-a-half unsolved cases were measured 10 years ago, and we ended up last year with some 350 to 400,000 how statistics go, unsolved cases. These are, I'd say, big steps in further combating the reduction of unsolved objects, but also with faster treatment, the speed is what we've been missing, and this digitization is exactly what these tools she's offering are going to enable us to do. Your question about when citizens will be able to participate in this, they will be able to participate very quickly and there are no really big conditions, you have to have a computer, you have to have access to the Internet, you have to have a new ID card with a chip to recognize you and that you can electronically sign what, all the documents you want to send to court, the benefits are great, you will have insight into your file, so electronically you will not have to send documents paper ić to mail, pay mail, you will have this communication that is very, very simple. We do have a whole series of services in the judiciary today, especially in a land-based procedure that we provide by electronic means, you can from your home, from your chair, get a grant excerpt by electronic means, so you don't have to mail, you can file requests for, related to the exercise of real rights in land books. The most complete is actually digitized by an e-list in the area of consumer bankruptcy, it is a file that is completely digitally rounded and it is something that our courts apply. What we have announced, therefore, you will be able to establish companies from your home by electronic means, which is a great contribution and the development of the economy and the simplicity of entering the world of work. The new concept of the Executive Law also foresees digitisation throughout this process, which will lead to speed and simplicity in all of this, so that digitisation does not solve everything, but offers tools and significantly helps us to be faster, and that is what is really the judiciary and much needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175017	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175018	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think everyone has understood the citizens who listen that their answer is clear and that it's important that everything is done in their favor. So digitisation will help judges to focus more on what their basic task is, which is to respect the law, the Constitution and to follow the principles of justice. Slowness is one of the problems of the judiciary, but we see how many files have been solved in approximately a million and 600 thousand to 350,000, so there's a lot done, so digitisation is how to speed up the resolution of the file. This is the way towards an impartial and independent judiciary or raising citizens' confidence in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175019	Thank you. I'd like to ask representative Ermine Lecay Sprawley to ask Gary Cappellia, Minister of Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175021	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the government. I hope you won't mind me asking the Prime Minister as I have already announced. We are witnessing a devastating earthquake that has struck the Republic of Albania and the tragic consequences that are still there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175022	I mean, that's not common. Look, it's against the Rules of Procedure, because if I were to allow you to do that now, any representative could then change the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister for his question. [[Intruder Lecai Smackaj: Here in this case I find it necessary.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175023	But I think it's an extraordinary situation, and I want the Prime Minister to inform our public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175024	My colleague, please give me a moment, now you're putting me in a very awkward situation. I also know that this is an extraordinary situation, that solidarity with the people of Albania is needed, but now we are breaking the Rules of Procedure simply. Tomorrow someone else will tell me that there are other reasons that are equally crucial and important to ask a question to someone he hasn't announced himself to. So, I can let you do it now, but I will make a precedent that will lead me into a situation tomorrow that I will be in an irrevocable situation, so please feel free to comment on your question, but I can't allow you here right now to someone else but the person who announced answers your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175025	Then I'll ask the Minister of Tourism a question. I just want to thank the Prime Minister for his help and for everything that's been done today. The question for the tourism minister is about the terraces that take place during the summer season. So the Ministry of Tourism is doing nothing about our hosts where individuals are willing to stop the work of our hosts, and the Minister of Tourism has been informed about it, and so far the question has not been answered. I wonder how one building that has been working for 20 years, and it's wanted in recent years, which are technical conditions, and how can someone voluntarily stop the work of the caterers in the course of the season as is the case in Opatija? So it's about a person who pays the state everything he needs and who's been doing business for 20 years on a regular basis, but our ministry has no support. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175026	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175027	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. Otherwise, at the session yesterday, the government made a decision to send two helicopters and the necessary equipment and we keep working on it, so you have just one piece of information. And of course we're following the situation that is and we're sure to provide that help because it's practically yesterday the Prime Minister dealt very urgently with it along with the defence minister. And as far as your question is concerned, the first use of public areas is under the authority of the unit of local self-government, so units of local self-government determine how many terraces, under what conditions, prices or conditions. Councils of these same units of local self-government on the Mayor's proposal. So they're the ones who decide on the amount of rent, how many tables, chairs, anything can be placed on the public surface. Number two, this case you've told me something I'm familiar with, although there are a lot of cases in the ministry, but it seems to me that I know the personal person from Opatija who's in a dispute now, so at the Municipal Court in Opatija, and I wouldn't have to comment too much on what direction this court dispute is going in and complaints against the County Court, etc., etc. But in that case, the problem is that part of the terrace is privately owned, i.e. The private owners of apartments that have that public surface, and they're about 20 as far as I'm concerned, 19 gave them consent, 1 didn't give consent. Therefore, one cannot be placed on this part of what is private property. The second part is the property of the city of Opatija, the city of Opatija has agreed to place it on public surfaces. However, according to the law and the regulation that exists because of the lack of agreement on table setting, the terrace on that surface could not be obtained from the county office dealing with it, not the ministry, which could not issue a valid document to use the outside space, so that the place could use internal space at this point. And we know that with one of those co-owners of the apartments, I don't know exactly what it's called by name, but I know it's in a dispute and I'm saying it's now at the Municipal Court in Opatija with appeal deadlines and as soon as that part is resolved, of course we'll do it in a way that we'll give consent if all the tenants give it away, it's just like that in law. And the second part, I say, from working time to all public areas, is determined by law, so the unit of local self-government is in charge. But we can get around that case because it's not, it's specific, it's not one of the issues, the complaints and everything. I can give you an exact written explanation with all the details but I suggest you also come to the ministry with a person who is interested and we can once again come to what the ministry can take, but everything else I say is in the hands of the courts in Opatija and afterwards the office of the county issuing the permits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175028	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175029	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with your answer since a court ruling has been passed that is not respected by a natural person who prevents the work of an entrepreneur in Opatija and I've been looking for a meeting with you for three months so I couldn't get to you, thank you, I hope you'll see me this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175030	We are going to the 23rd issue of Agent Nikola Grmoy, asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175031	Thank you, Your Honor. I will ask Prime Minister Plenkovic the question because he is the person responsible for the situation in Croatian school. In fact, I named myself head of education reform, we all remember that. After all, the minister apostrophysed him as the main culprit for this situation, practically appointed him minister of education. We've seen that he, or first his head of staff, so he's in charge of the negotiations, the minister was nowhere, and I can see she's not even here, and I don't know if she's been replaced, and I can see that there may be a new minister, Mrs. McNally. Putica. So it's clear that exactly the man who told the kids to go to school that he was the one responsible for it. Dear Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you a simple question, do you consider yourself responsible for this chaos you've produced? First of all, you didn't want to accept the meaning of teachers, teachers and teachers at all, it took too long, you sent cynical statements that you would increase their salary by 100%. You've produced such a riot in the classrooms and I knew last night after the meeting that this wouldn't go away, so here we see now the information from the field teachers won't agree to this. Why? Because they didn't fight for money, they fought for equality, and you didn't give it to them. You increased your coefficients in February to your brothers at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. When the teachers rebelled, you raised a foundation for everyone. You don't want to bring order into the pay system, we've been warning about it for 3 years. You do not want to edit the coefficients, you do not want to reward those who are successful, who are executive, you do not want to punish those who are unsuccessful because it is your voting machine. I ask you if you feel responsible and ashamed that Croatian children cannot go to school, which parents have problems, do you feel any responsibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175032	Thank you. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175033	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoy, since you're coming as much as I remember originally from the education system, I kindly ask you to remember that when in the education system there's an offer for a government salary to rise by 23.1%? Do you remember that? I don't think you remember him because you can't remember that because it never happened, ever. What's important to understand, the the thesis you're saying there was no dialogue, no lies, no lies, no lies. Both representatives of the primary union and representatives of the high school education union have been at meetings in the government several times, and that's exactly with me if you want to do so right now. And with bids that were so generous right away, so after the second meeting, this government and this responsible Prime Minister, as you're saying, offered to immediately increase the salary by 2% this year with payment in October. Right now, before we even got into a situation to see what we can do budgetally, right now. You must know that as well. There was an immediate offer of 2%. Now. So we'd have a salary with that 2% increase in base and a 4% higher in October than in September. That's a bit of an easy turn-off, we don't need it. Then we went to rest, so we offered 2+2, and that turned down. And that turned down. Are you saying that this is not an respect for the role of teachers, teachers and teachers for their efforts and work, for the implementation of reforms? It is. We looked at what we could do. We, after negotiating with a particular sector, must look at the whole. You have regular negotiations on a basic collective contract. You have to find the funds from somewhere. Who found the funds? Did you find them or did the government find them? For teachers and teachers. Croatian taxpayers' funds freed billions and 800 million kunas so that we could continue with a consistent wage policy. Yeah, I'm responsible because by now we've already increased the salary by 11.49%. Yes, we are responsible all together here and left and right and Minister of Education which the proposal on the table is complete not in silo, not in module, not in silo and module, content, substance in front of form, when accepted, total increase in 4 years by 23.1%. 23.1% for teachers and teachers. Anyone rational can say that this is bad, small or weak and in doing so raise the level of social dialogue, partnership, respect, respect in a way that together with union representatives solve all the illogical and irregularities in the coefficient system, everything. And you know it very well, even though you weren't in the government some of your colleagues did. Volume to which something plays a role, volume plays a role. We have to keep that in mind. Here you have 65,000 people in the primary and secondary education system. You still have almost 23 to 25 thousand people in the higher education system. That's 90,000 people. The coefficients for systems where there are 5, 10, 15, 100 or 800, that cannot be compared. And just to correct that, together with an externally large credit institution, we're going to do an audit of the coefficients and introduce order into a system that is not good enough today to meet and raise salaries and positions and dignity of those to whom it applies. We are responsible for 23,.../incomprehensible/ Because they're on the table, yes, we are. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175034	Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175035	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you don't understand teachers, teachers and teachers. You treat them like chips you bought here in the Parliament, which you think money can be bought. They're people who not only educate our children, they're people who raise our children and future generations. And they send them a message saying they're not for sale, they're looking for equality. Milanovic's government took their coefficients. They have the worst odds with the highest level of expertise. They want equality and you can't do it, you can't figure it out, and there's the problem with the story, you made fun of them and you produced never seen a riot in the Croatian chambers. You are the most hated person in the Croatian chambers and of course you do not want to agree, you are responsible for this situation. Just you, 'cause kids don't go to school. And you can't explain it. Your ego is so much that you can't come to that level at all to figure out what teachers, teachers and teachers are telling you and that's the problem. That's the problem. It is also a problem that education reform The School of Life is buried in Ban Jelačić Square. The whole square's been running down the lumens, down the pills. No more education reform, no more teaching. No more Minister Divjak. There won't be any of you soon, Prime Minister. You're about to have the biggest rebellion at all, and I don't know if you see it, and all because you weren't humble enough, you couldn't listen to teachers, teachers and teachers. You didn't want to introduce order, you've been asking for three years, you've got to put in order, you've got to fix the coefficients. Reward the excellent, punish the failures, abolish the counties, so you've hired the mayors to attack teachers, teachers and teachers. The greatest vestments. Well, that, that's the litter. Involvement, they [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] They're attacking professors. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] teachers and teachers. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175036	Let's go to the next question, MP Miro Bulj asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175037	Prime Minister, I've been talking about moving our people out for years. The people have moved, 2/3 of Croatia we have empty in Germany, in Ireland, people have taken jobs there, now they are sending to their families through the foreign exchange codes. 5% of Croatia's GDP comes from a sign of evicted Croats and then you talk about GDP growth in Croatia. You moved people out first, and that's how you solved unemployment. And now you're boasting about the growth of GDP that is growing because of their signs. In the budget debate, you said it was my ticks and you were a serious prime minister and a serious government. It hasn't been two days, the media has released data that it's only in one year, 2018. 74% increase from abroad from our people who have moved out. So now we have to ask the Prime Minister, who's pecking, you or me? The other day, you approved foreign employment licenses. You gave 78 thousand new permits and renewed 25 thousand foreign licenses for foreigners. In all, 103,000, I repeat 103,000 in total. And two years ago, 30,000 permits were granted for the work of foreigners. Prime Minister, what did you do besides the PR, a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that made false promises about the demographics and survival of our people in 2/3 of Croatia? It is high time, tell us what you will do for the survival of the Croatian people in 2/3 of Croatia that are empty?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175038	Thank you. Here you are, the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175039	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. As far as demographics are concerned, as far as the question of freedom of movement is concerned, it's a subject I keep explaining. I believe that you understand it too, that you use it in this way I can understand and understand it. So no. 1 since Croatia joined the EU, the labour markets of other Member States have been gradually liberalised. That's normal and expected. We are now in the 7th year of membership, and soon the last state to hold a limit, which is Austria, will lift those restrictions. What have we done with that? Realising freedom of movement of people i.e. a market worker whose members we are and who we went through strategically in time until MOST was yet to exist consensually. The SDP was for that, too. Consensually. So, we're in for what? The organization where it's globally looking at the best of lives, where it's the best growth, where it's the best social rights, where the values we share are the ones we've been seeking out of isolation. So EU membership isn't something this government invented, it's a process that's been going on since 1990. That was the goal. It carries certain elements with it. There's never been this many possibilities of freedom of movement before, why? Because there were quotas, because there were work permits. Now it's gone. Our qualifications of our educational institutions are recognised in EU member states and our people can be hired wherever they want, soon and in Austria as well as any other citizen of any other member. It's the facts. At the same time, what's our job? The task is Croatia, as a country that has a problem with negative natural growth. We know very well that about every year, in terms of negative natural growth, we lose a city the size of Makarska. It's a reality, it's a Croatian reality and it's not a trend that exists for the last three years, it's a trend that's been going practically for the last three decades. However, if a government has taken steps in the area of demographic revitalisation, then this is through policy and measures taken by the competent ministry through policy and tax discharge measures and through policy and measures towards young people, especially by subsidising housing loans to young people and through a number of other activities, and this fourth wave of tax reform that will be adopted soon I hope, it is Friday, yes, the debate is tomorrow, on Friday, going directly towards young people to make it easier for them. That those up to 25 years of age do not pay income tax, and those who are 26 to 30 pay 50%. You're wondering what we've done? The measures that we have made in both parent and maternity benefits and tax discharges are so great that the measures have never been taken in common, plus Representative Bulj, we have emancipated this topic at European level. It is precisely the Croatian Vice-President of the European Commission who will now gain confidence along with other colleagues and colleagues in Strasbourg who will have the responsibility of demographic revitalisation at EU level because this is a horizontal problem similar to that of at least 13 other EU members. And as for GDP growth, here I am now reading 2.9% of the third quarter, 2.9% of the third quarter. Therefore, this government leads a policy of healthy economic growth and therefore can keep a balanced budget through budget revenues and address wage policy and demographic revitalization. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175040	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175041	Celebrating Prime Minister Plenkovic, you have evicted more people from Croatia than peranospor. You've heard me well, you're worse than peranospora. Prime Minister, you have done nothing to stop the emigration of the Croatian people except to boast of the appointments of your people as EU officials. You hand over the state, the only reform in the hands of the mayor, you give them billions, just to entangle the party's infrastructure and to stop the development of the Republic of Croatia. Only in my Dalmatian Zagorje since there is a county of 100,000 people have moved, 100,000 and you are strengthening exclusively to have a partyocracy, so that you can rule over mayors and decentralize money so that they can send the mayors and the mayors the money they'll be dealing with fits. Farmers, so you were talking about agriculture, you said you were going to export milk to the Chinese, how much milk you export to the Chinese, 10% was produced less in the 2018 milk in the Republic of Croatia. Empty Slavonia. Since 2020, foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land until Croatian natural and legal persons can buy in Hungary. You have not even protected the fishermen, you have no courage because of the Tajani of your friend and your courtship for the appointment of your officials in the EU, and you have not declared in the bodies an exclusive economic belt, you have no courage. And I repeat again here, the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, Zagorje, empty. We didn't fight for it, neither did I, nor all the people who defended our country here, nor General Krstičević, that in his Vrgorec and my Sinj, all the villages and all the schools, you didn't do anything You're worse than peranospora. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175042	Thank you. Time's up. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175043	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Bulj, made a grave lie, namely no Croatian man has evicted because of the peronospora. He didn't move out because of the peranospora. Namely, Mr. Bulj doesn't know that because of the philoxer people have evicted sir, it has nothing to do with each other, and another thing to do with my colleague Bulj, and the other thing you and your colleague Grmoy are talking about counties as the greatest arrests And you answered one and the other, and you wanted to become one. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] Obviously, the concept of earrings. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175044	... colleague Bacic, please. So, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure in the way you've tried to use it now, so I have to give you a heads-up. So I'm asking you, since I've given my colleague Bacic a warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175045	Thank you, Your Honor. A colleague of Bačić obviously does not know about eviction in the late 19th century from Dalmatia. Apparently, he doesn't know about the eviction from Dalmatia except that monster came from America, and this monster came here from Brussels, that's the only difference. That's the only difference, and I had to intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175046	My colleague, Mr. Grmoya, you have been reminded of your abuse of the Rules of Procedure. It's not, or you've abused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175047	Thank you very much. My colleague Bacic hurt Article 238 because the peronospor had a major impact on the eviction of Dalmatians, but at the moment one Dalmatian, it came from America as a colleague said. A colleague of Bačić, Dalmatia is empty, Dalmatian Zagora is empty, you know it, Lika, Slavonia, and this government is worse than peranospora, Plenkovic had worse effects on the emigration than peranospora.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175048	Comrade Bulj, please, Comrade Bulj, you are being warned that you have misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bačić, please, my colleague Bacic, please stop the debate. Let's move on now, MP Drazen Milinkovic asks the question of Minister of State Property Marija Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175050	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers, has referred my question to Minister Banozic. Information has already appeared on several occasions about the development of a business information manual, a business plan for state-owned companies. So these are information or instructions that should contain quarterly, half-yearly, annual report to state firms and also, business report, business plan that would probably be medium-term for state firms. However, there is a lot of vital data relating to the business itself and the business of state firms, so I am interested in how much this information is protected or what will come to the public, what the public can get and what will be available and the other part that will be officially protected in order not to be misused in the very extreme, in the business of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175051	The reply of the respected Minister of State Property.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175052	Dear Parliamentarian Milinkovic means that the Government has just made the State Property Act in 2018 created preconditions for decision-making and one of them was just a decision relating to reporting, that is, the reporting plan, monitoring of the work of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or legal persons. It is through this reporting that the Ministry of State Property has created one, made one instruction, a guide that still today conducts talks with state-owned companies, state-owned, commercial companies on the list of special interests in the way it will be done, and therefore the preconditions are created for the introduction for the first time in the medium-term planning, i.e. on the basis of these documents, the owner of the administrative bodies will be reported in the manner in which the procedures of those plans are carried out through the administrative bodies. Those plans won't be published. ... It is not true that what has been published in the public that there will be some kind of secret mark, they do not have a code of secrecy but, for certain reasons, they are not being presented to the public, they will primarily question the implementation of other laws such as the Public Procurement Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also as the Ministry of State Property, we regularly file reports on the work of companies as we have done on our official pages of the Ministry of State Property. Moreover, on all their official pages, those companies shall submit their annual reports in accordance with the Capital Market Act, in accordance with the accounting law. So it's not accurate information that something will have a code of secrecy. We have some medium-term plans and indicators, or information about them that are not being released to the public at that time under the Law on State Property, means in accordance with Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Property Management Act, paragraph 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175053	Thank you. Dear Representative Drazen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175054	I am pleased with the answer, especially through this part means that it will be monitored through the entire year of the work of the state firm so that there can be no surprising events that led to the day that it is then escalating some problem in the state firm and the state firm and yet this ends later in the Ministry or Government, and also this information that needs to be protected to avoid abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175055	The next question will be asked by respected representative Vlatko Kopic, the respected health minister Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175056	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed ministers and ministers. Here, as my question has been said, I refer to the Minister of Health, Professor. You're a coward. Well respected ministers, since all of us who work in the health system and I'm sure the entire public knows well that the greatest value of the health system is based on the staff of health professionals, nurses, technicians and doctors. In the media space, sometimes it appears, imposes the the thesis that too many of these employees are leaving the Republic of Croatia, going to other places to find some better working conditions and better life. So here I am asking you on behalf of all those who work in the health system and the general public, can you specifically specify what measures have been taken during the time you are the current minister, while you are in the term of office of this government to keep these healthcare professionals and what measures you have taken to essentially improve the working conditions of all of us who work in the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175057	The reply of the Honorable Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175058	Dear MPs and MPs, Honorable Mr. Dr. Kopic, thank you very much for asking. I think that in this House and in general in the Croatian public, we need to talk more with the truth and facts. I'm listening to these populists here today and it's really sad to see cheap ghosts, and I think the Croatian public is disgusted with them and I'm going to speak the language of the truth. During the term of this Government, a billion and 700 million kunas were successfully withdrawn and into the health system were introduced into improving working conditions, thus encouraging a number of segments to make Croatian doctors, nurses, engineers and others involved more perspective and remain in the Republic of Croatia. What is particularly important is to highlight in the deprived areas of eu funds we have provided 210 specializations and on average, speaking of all other specializations annually, this government gives 50% more specialization than was given in earlier years. Also in the term of office of this government, we have ensured that certain interests of biochemists are defined so that people do not feel neglected. When it comes to the number of people involved, these prognostics who talk about collapse are now working in the health system of 2,000 more nurses than 4 years ago and now around 600 doctors work more than 4 years ago. As a result of the education of doctors and other staff, we have provided €30 million from the EU funds so that people have the satisfaction and the ability to study, introduce new knowledge and, in this spirit, this government has also provided the opening of new spaces which challenges Croatian doctors. We opened a national robot centre on the Rebr where Croatia was lagging behind, others set off, other countries ten years ago began to do so. And what is certainly not, important to emphasize, and it is in the term of this government not that we have not abolished the goddesses and the regressions and that we have not cut the wages but that we have, in fact, increased the wages that feel about it, look at the statistics true, if we can also talk about names. In the term of office of this government, fewer doctors and nurses leave Croatia and more doctors and nurses return to Croatia. And we haven't stopped, and we haven't stopped, these pitchers, I'm waiting outside, we can talk, don't interrupt, be polite. I'm waiting outside to talk to you in front of the cameras, all of you, whoever wants to talk. So in the term of office of this government, we launched a projection, we didn't stop. We have launched a projection of the construction of 4 new university hospitals, 4 gravity centres that will provide the next century, which is ahead of us with Croatian medicine, prosperity to Croatian doctors and nurses and will, above all, ensure the safety of health care for Croatian citizens and finally what they can say now, which is that there will be more specialization and that more and less, when it comes to doctors and sisters, people will leave the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175059	Thank you. Dear Representative Kopić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175060	Dear Minister, of course, that I am pleased with this answer because everyone who is reasonable, who sees and reads all this you have said will commend and support it, thank you once again for everything you have done and what you will do for the health system in the Republic of Croatia, but I must also express in this opportunity regret that some of your predecessors did not have so much will, enthusiasm, barbecues and elans to do all that you have listed because I am sure that the health system would then be better and there would not be so much negativity related to this particular one of yours, or our resources. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175061	Thank you. The next question will be that of a respected representative of Marina Skibbol, who is referring to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175062	Thank you, Vice-President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, the law on the integrity of the loan contract is a law that has helped many people in the short term, but also many have resented the law. This law has been resented by those groups that have used anarchy and tolerance towards crime within our system for the assembling of great financial benefits, and I am responsible for that. There are strong indications that these same groups have served the benefits of European law in order to skip Croatian institutions and try to adjudicate a law that has been unanimously adopted in HS. A manipulative previous question was sent by a Serb judge who herself lived or lived in a property mortgaged by the same believer, resulting in problems with the RBA cooperatives being resolved again. I personally sent you a written parliamentary question, for five months you have not answered my question, I am interested in whether you have not purposely answered my question or are sending me a sign in this way. However, what is to be said and what needs to be done is to urgently amend those articles within that law which are not in accordance with European law and to do so in cooperation with the legislator of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175063	The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175064	Thank you, well-respected representative of Shkybol, you know that our government, and HS has passed the Law on the integrity of the loan agreement with international features concluded in the Republic of Croatia with an unauthorized believer. So our political will was to solve the problem that has arisen, which you have described now in your question. I believe that you also understand and know the division of jurisdiction and division of power in the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia has no influence on any way that any kind of previous questions to the European Court of Justice are asked by courts in the Republic of Croatia, and we have no influence on that, as you do not have it, neither do we. What is important is that we understand what the European Court has said, so here it is not necessary and neither necessary nor abolishing nor amending the Law on Vulnerabilities, in order for the EU court's ruling to produce legal effect. What matters here is that our courts will have to bear in mind and take into account this European Court ruling, that is the point of this. As for the answer to your question, I'm gonna check in on what phase we're in, I don't know where the Justice Minister is right now, or someone else who's in charge, so I'm gonna answer you in writing. We, when it comes to those of our fellow citizens who were in trouble, who were in a situation where they could not meet their financial obligations, made huge steps. Here's a few days ago when Minister Bosnjakovic represented the Executive Act as the fourth legal framework for solving problems blocked, I must remind that this government therefore passed 2 laws, 2 laws, that was if you remember in the summer of 2018. where we allowed the state and the legal person associated with the state to write off part of the debt, so a full write-off of £10.00, we allowed another law to reduce the debt of those who have been blocked and that is significant. The Third Consumer Bank Act allowed long-term blocked citizens to pass a simple consumer bankruptcy process and free themselves from obligations and when looking at the whole, we are from 325 254 blocked citizens in 2018. in October of this year at 243 655, the amount of blockade recorded at the FINA last year, March 2018. 43.37 billion kuna, now 17.1 billion kuna and a new executive law that goes according to all its characteristics and the favor of those who are damaged, those who are in the most demanding position, so there is a very complete and consistent line of care for those who are in an unfavourable financial position. Therefore, and especially given that the delegation does not exist in the practical winter period, there are no more, there are no more under the new proposal of the Executive Law, there will be none of them, it is a huge step, it is something that has never existed so far. In view of all this together, we will seek solutions that are in line with that political goal when the Law on Vulnerabilities is passed, and yet we will respect the legal framework that we are part of and I will answer your question in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175065	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by a respected representative of the Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175066	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Plenkovic, you have now well obstructed this answer, you have not answered the question I asked you. So you said that the Croatian government will not amend a law that, according to the European Court's ruling, is not in accordance with European law. So what kind of message is that, Mr. Plenkovic? What is the message before the Presidency of the Croatian European Union that you will leave within the legislative framework of a law that is not in accordance with European law? You've been talking for two minutes about something I haven't asked you at all. Five months you haven't answered a written parliamentary question, please don't manipulate it because what's happening on the ground isn't good. So we have individual judges who can't wait for that kind of verdict, people have become victims of political games, people have become victims of those interest groups that someone has given the green light to. So these stakeholders were given some green light ten years ago, and now that this European Court of Justice verdict has come, which I think is deeply contaminated because it was placed by a judge who is in an eclectic conflict of interest, but you're not interested in it. And you expect people to trust Croatian institutions? On what basis should they trust institutions? Based on a DORH that doesn't sanction crime, that's why. I don't know Prime Minister Plenkovic how this will all end together, but it's not going to be good at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175067	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the respected representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175069	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Mr Bozinovic. We know that we have no reason to worry about the stability of the Croatian border, but sometimes we can hear certain contradictions, misinformation and innuendo in public space. It is therefore important that our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have reliable, accurate, verifiable and true information, and this is one of the opportunities for you to tell us here today again, what is the situation at the Croatian border? Do Croatian citizens have any reason to worry? And what did he specifically do in the meantime since the last current morning when you spoke on this subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175070	Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175071	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Representative. Compared to last current hour, I think that on the same question of one of the MPs when we will get the green light for Schengen, I have announced that we will get it very soon, so in the term of office of the still existing European Commission and that has happened. As for the migration crisis that began in 2015, it has never really stopped, and Croatia has in the last two and a half years taken a number of activities to strengthen its external border, especially towards BiH, where the migrant course of illegal migrants coming from Turkey via Greece continues to Croatia. Of course that's a situation we're not satisfied with, but what you said in public space is a lot of misunderstanding, so someone says we need to solve this issue at the source of migration. Well, of course it's got to be solved, just how? The source of migration is Africa, the source of migration is the Middle East. And what we do, especially in this foreign policy area, is that we are very active in both European and UN forums, and there are misunderstandings. You know, some who say you need to resolve at the source of migration are against working with the International Community on this. On the other hand, what we did not leave behind is actually strengthening the Croatian external border with the people and with the technique. When we say technique, the technique is actually something that we are trying to do, you may have seen yesterday that we promoted 17 new mobile thermal cameras, which is a product of Croatian innovation, Croatian companies funded from European funds, which precisely because of the configuration of our border will be more efficient in some parts of those stationary cameras that we have set up. The first day after we got the green light, we said we were disappearing with the border equipment, and we promoted yesterday and announced it. What is now under way is the acquisition of new drones, the acquisition of even more stationary systems, as many mobile systems as possible and what is important to know from EU funds. On the other hand, of course we're also strengthening our operational capacities. This year 250 new members of the Police Academy will be deployed to the border police, so the border police are actually the key to protecting us from illegal migration, we are dealing with this job and the challenge, and when it comes to increased number of smugglers, migrants, this year, the Croatian police have arrested almost 900 smugglers, so that's one category that has not been known a few years ago, they were there but we've started dealing with it in the last 2.5 years, and if you catch 900 people who illegally smuggled migrants this year, then you know what the challenge is. I think we also showed the international public and the Croatian public that when you look at and compare Croatia compared to what is happening around us, that actually the Croatian police are keeping things very well under control, thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175072	Honored representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175073	Your Honor, I express my satisfaction with the specificity of the response, it is evident that so far it has been taken and I agree with you that the international public also had the opportunity and last week to give their commendation in Mrs. President's speech. Angel Merkel when she praised the work of the Croatian government and the Croatian police, above all, to protect the Croatian border, which is particularly important to us as Croatian citizens but also to protect the EU's external borders and what is also important, those objections to the inhumane treatment of illegal migrants, Mrs. Merkel then stepped in the defence of Croatia and presented all specificities to which the Croatian police and the MUP are currently and the Croatian government is, of course, conflicting in the sense that these specificities are probably not present in any EU member state and despite all these demanding situations, the MUP is doing excellently by respecting all fundamental human rights and by not violating anything that would be expected or not in violation of any fundamental human rights and by sticking to its work with quality and consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175074	The next question will be asked by respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh to the government's respected A. Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175075	Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know, given everything you've had in your focus these last few days, has anyone received your attention about the problem that's happening with the link between the Republic of Croatia and other countries, above all, here in our focus to be EU members. In fact, there is a dangerous stagnation that we will feel in the first six months. Next year at the time of the chairmanship and very eclative. In fact, Zagreb is only connected to 11 EU members at this time, and not in all cases with their main airports. We have a paradox to say from Zagreb you can't travel directly anywhere east of Frankfurt except Warsaw four times a week. So, that well-known high-ranking high-indicator that the president has been committed to, so from Baltica down, and include Scandinavia, so Scandinavia, the Baltic countries, all the countries of the East, all the way to the Black Sea, we don't have a single direct flight. So after many years, after the years of war and war, when it flew neatly from Zagreb... We don't have a flight to Prague anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what's been going on lately, which is that the only low budget company that is Euro Wings is now announcing that there will be no more direct flights to Berlin. This is an unsustainable situation and I think that the government as a signator of concession with a concessionary, must react in such situations because it is obvious that the concessionaire comes out of the box by offering or demanding extremely high prices that companies are absolutely unacceptable and now we have only 14 companies flying from Zagreb over the year. Will you do something to honor our national interest so that we can be as closely connected as possible to other countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175076	The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175077	Thank you very much. I saw this information myself, and I asked Minister Butkovic to brief us after consulting the international airport administration of Zagreb and after that we will see what we can do, whether it is a price problem, whether it is a concessionaire, whether it is something that would be worrying, of course our goal is especially with this new and modern airport that there is traffic on it because it is the key and that Zagreb becomes not only the main airport in Croatia but that it is... for this whole part of Southeast Europe and Central Europe, that was the whole goal and purpose, and therefore I expect from Minister Butkovic, who had to go to Osijek, to give us one report in the next days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175078	Dear Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175079	It is extremely important that the government reacts as soon as possible, sits at a table with a concessionary and two things clear, and in the context of two very important facts. The first is the weakness of our own national airline that is constantly in debt and the question of whether it will be able to endure and you know that it holds 2/3 of these European destinations to its planes. In the event of the company collapse, we're not even connected to those countries. On the other hand, the other circumstance is that there is developing a Belgrade airport which is 2.5 times more traffic than Zagreb, where a large part of the traffic is generated by precisely low budget carriers of which there is none at the Zagreb airport, that is something that is not our interest and that has to be communicated with the concessionary because it cannot and can not go logically to have as little work as possible at a higher price because it is not our interest, it is our interest that Zagreb be well connected and the whole of Croatia throughout the year with all relevant countries and destinations. The fact that some of our airports along the sea are like Split or Dubrovnik are well connected, it is made up of tourism, it has nothing to do with the general business and the general interests that we have in both the continent and all of Croatia. Anyway, I'd like the government to get more serious about it and sit down with the concessionaire and not let him do exactly what he wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175080	The next question will be asked by respected representative Pero Ćosic, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175081	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister. Ministers of Finance Mr. Maric, here is due to a new wage failure and continuing inability to continue production, a strike by the Djuro Djakovic group has been announced for tomorrow. I know that you are personally well aware of this subject even a year ago when the government has significantly helped continue production with a guarantee of 95 million kuna but unfortunately, not a full year after the company's big guarantee again has problems with liquidity and production stands. The bitter workers here today announced a press conference in front of the Ministry of Economy and the county assembly discussed this topic and the chairmanship of the County Assembly brought conclusions both to the government and other owners, the administration, the supervisory board and the union, and here among others stands the government as still a significant shareholder of the Đuro Đakovic group, to take urgent short-term measures and also to find a second-term solution in coordination with other stakeholders. The salary was paid for September, further funding was not settled, so far the chairman of the administration, the group, resigned and here's what I hear is announced, or the resignation of the special vehicle administration was given. We are aware, of course, that the way to avoid bankruptcy is a long-term and strategic solution, not an ad hoc solution, and that is why we have requested more intensive activation of the Presidency of the Assembly than the Government and other shareholders in this area. So we are curious whether and in what way will the workers of Đura Djakovica get their salaries, namely, here December is here, Christmas is coming and what can they hope for here in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175082	The reply of the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175083	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, that you well apostrophysed me personally, but above all, the resolute ministry and then the entire government were familiar with the situation in Đura Djakovic, and you were well apostrophe last year, the request came, and the Government responded positively to that and by decision of 4 October 2018 agreed on the granting of a state guarantee for the credit responsibility of the Đuro Đaković d.d. Group. in the amount of $95 million, 80% of that amount is covered by a state guarantee. As it was then presented to the restoring ministry and then to all of us, the purpose of these funds was, of course, one strategic long-term view and the framework of Đura Djakovic in the sense of having to do some restructuring and, of course, to continue on projects, processes and all the jobs that have been launched by then. However, here we have witnessed today just over a year after that, although this problem is already ongoing and little before, so a year later, unfortunately those words did not show up, or what was presented by the administration. Among other things, it has been defended by the fact that one of the commercial banks has denied liquidity and certain credit arrangements according to Djura Djakovic, which, among other things, has opened the problem, including the payment of salaries already mentioned in... the delivery of these specific tasks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So again I repeat as though some and many draw some parallels with the Oil Group I see some similarities here but also a lot more differences and there we need to be very clear and decoded right at the very beginning. However, what should be noted is that these things which are primarily the fruit and result of Đura Djakovic's business, so above all the management and supervisory board that are there, you know that the ownership structure, that the state is still in that group, but we also have private capital for a longer time. And now from this perspective on one side we are faced with one short-term challenge, it is again a problem of pay for everything I have spoken to and with my colleague Horvat and the rest ministry as was the case in the previous month, we are looking for certain ways and we are aware of the fact that the end of the year is coming and the workers and their families deserve the payout and we can expect that the maximum contribution will be made on our part. But what we're particularly looking at is a look ahead. Because Djuro Djakovic and you and I speak to me personally today and as Brodjan but of course on behalf of Djura Djakovic, my position is very similar from that perspective and of course we should look at some kind of long-term perspective. Now, given these circumstances, we cannot even amnesty of the State Aid Act and given the circumstances in which Djuro Djakovic is present, it is also a question of the treatment of the entrepreneur in difficulty. So anything that would concern further steps must be well and verified, communicated with the European Commission's findings and I should say continue to work on one framework which will mean a financial type injection that is in line with the rules, which will allow it to continue operations but with one thorough restructuring and of course a view towards further steps and within strategic partners. You just mentioned coordination with the other owners. I would not only say coordination but the active participation of all the owners who should be working in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175084	Dear Representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175085	Thank you, dear Minister, for your reply. I am aware of the fact that this government has significantly helped Đuro Djakovic over the past year, but here unless the liquidity problems of Đuro Đakovic, the largest company within Đura Đaković, special vehicles are found, it is certain that it could go bankrupt and there could be a disturbance of the whole group and these are related, related societies. So those companies that are operating positively today could come safely into a blockade and perhaps the worst bankruptcy scenario that would happen in order to keep about 800 people out of jobs and, of course, that would affect all those societies that are based on Djuro Djakovic any co-operatives, suppliers and other creditors. So here's another appeal to you that on the issues of Đura Djakovic, if you don't already share in these two directions as you said one short-term pay insurance solution from New Year's, you start manufacturing in special vehicles that must be completed by the end of the year in order to avoid even higher costs and, of course, in coordination with everyone, you are looking for one, one long-term solution to the problem of this group. Finally, I must say that the entire public of the Brod-Posavina County is in solidarity with the workers of Đura Djakovic and we are giving them full support in their right to work and to pay their salaries because the workers of Đura Đakovic are not strikein' because they are unhappy with the offered salary or with some coefficients of their job. The Đura Djakovica workers strike because they have not received their salary, because their existence, the existence of their families and unfortunately the possibility of losing jobs, so here, please, and the entire government to make additional efforts to continue production and preserve jobs at Đuro Đaković factory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175086	The next question will be asked by respected representative Milorad Batinic, environment and energy minister Tomislav Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175087	Thank you, Vice President. Dear members and members of the government, I would like to refer my question to Minister Coric. Dear Ministers on the Ministry's pages have observed a public call for the procurement of construction waste and waste treatment facilities, which certainly makes you happy because that's what you were in some way announcing through the debates here in the assembly and on the committees. The fact is that the situation with construction waste especially with recycling yards should be greatly improved, however, there is one suggestion, one proposal and one question. Namely, I'm curious about when this contest will be activated, when did you plan to activate it? Public consultation shows that there are certain enquiries and certain dilemmas and that it is clear and suggestive to try to answer all the questions that cause certain dilemmas. And of course it might expand because it's exclusively listed here in this call for equipment. Could be in some part of the building itself to finance, possibly to think in that direction. What I would also like to suggest, to be detailed, is that small, medium-sized, large enterprises are listed, and there is one question as to whether or not they can also run public companies owned by local and regional self-government units. Here, just one suggestion, thanking a valuable invitation, I hope that as soon as possible, it will come as a public call for insight and the ability to run, but here I would also like to see that date to be more precisely defined certain parameters of the call itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175088	The reply of the respected Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175089	Dear Representative Batinić, thank you very much for your question. So, if not only is this call actually on the website of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, this call is also about a call for the purchase of a vehicle or a vehicle for the transport of waste or utility vehicles. So, two calls are at this point in the e-consultation and this counselling takes until 16 December of this year. After that, of course, with the agreement of the Ministry of Regional Development and everything that is going on, we expect this call to be opened in January, certainly in January 2020. To solve at least some of the concerns that you've come up with and that you've come across. This call is therefore open to all companies because the recycling of construction waste in this particular case is not within the public service and that is why it is open to all possible companies whether they are a little micro or large, it carries with it, therefore it is a market activity. This also carries some different rules, in this particular case, subsidies cannot go up to 85% or European resources as much as possible in some other situations, it is up to 70% and refers to small and micro-enterprises, while for large companies it is 50%. As far as the issues of building the courtyards themselves, that part of co-financing is concerned, we are a little further than the solution at this point. In fact, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, along with a whole number of other stakeholders to the European Commission, communicated a project that should refer to this particular area, at the moment that the first phase of the project that is currently dealing with construction waste has passed in the next phase, in fact, we expect to get funding in full, which would allow for the construction and construction of documentation not only in terms of construction waste but also asbestos that has not been solved in Croatia in itself, and then finally for the construction and construction of infrastructure. In this case, the funds would probably have to be settled against 60 to 40, so 60 from the funds, 40 from the funds, or.../incomprehensible/... projects, and 40 from the users themselves, however. To return to the answer to your question, so 1 month next year you can expect this call, the first or the beginning of a February call for utility vehicles. Thank you very much. Here, just for a little while actually before I finish and thank you, so there's also the supply of the container. At this moment, a call was sent to the National Journal for the purchase of this largest container contingent in the Republic of Croatia for a group of so-called. One, for groups two, three and four yesterday, or two, three and five yesterday in the government, we were allowed to finally enter into contract signing, so this is about these larger, larger tanks. Therefore, as regards the construction of infrastructure or the supply of waste management infrastructure at this point, all forms of infrastructure are being recorded progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175090	Dear Representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175091	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I can express my satisfaction with the answer. I hope this second part of what you have announced is the possibility of financing construction, because the fact is that building waste management is in some way market activity and should certainly remain that way. However, we also witness certain costs related to this, and it is primarily questionable how acceptable it is for our citizens to have a relationship of up to 100km of construction waste. That's where my question went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175092	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative of Pedja Grbin, the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. President. The question I'm going to ask you is very simple. I ask you to answer us all, but not just to us, but to the citizens of this country and to those who strike with full right. Do you know the difference between the coefficient, the addition and the base? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175095	The reply of the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175096	I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175097	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. President. You can claim whatever you want, but from your footsteps you wouldn't say. You wouldn't say you understand, or I'll get right, you might actually understand, but that's even worse. You understand, but still persistently you do everything you can to keep this problem out of the hands of students in the Republic of Croatia and their parents. Your Honor, Mr. President, this strike is your responsibility. The fact that children don't go to school is your responsibility and it's up to you to solve what's possible sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175099	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Allen Prelec, also prime minister of the government-respected Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175100	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. So here are my colleagues who have asked a series of questions to which we are waiting for an answer, how would Croatia feel better? I'll warn you of a problem that's in cities and municipalities. In fact, the mayors and commissioners simply do not have enough money to ensure a better life for our citizens. Our budgets are far too small for everything we intend to do for the good of our citizens. I'll just warn the bad public transport, I'll warn you that we don't have enough kindergartens, I'll warn you that we don't have good schools. We may be getting modern pills, but our roofs are sneezing. Unfortunately, the situation is also the case with the construction of infrastructure, we do not have enough good roads and footsteps, and we want to ensure better life and better conditions for our citizens. The social system is the same thing that we cannot meet the needs of our citizens, there are more and more poor and those who do not have adequate housing, and we want to improve their standard. How do you do that with only 15 and maybe a little more than one percent of the funds being spent, public funds? The EU average is more than 30%, the EU average of how many units of local self-government are spent, and some countries developed as Denmark spend 66%. So we don't have enough resources, the state is expensive and spending too much. And entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship cannot create as many of us in the public sector as we produce. And unfortunately, this country is not friends according to entrepreneurship, only 25% of Croats would like to go to entrepreneurship unlike 36% of Europeans or 50% of Americans and Chinese. That's why we don't have enough money and I'm afraid cities and municipalities will be even harder in the future. Can we see the light at the end of the tunnel? I'm afraid I don't see it, so here's a comment, do we see the light at the end of the tunnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175101	The answer of the respected Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175102	Thank you very much, Reverend Prelec. Well, it's just like this subject of education and investment that you're asking questions right now. So you and your colleague Grbin come from the SDP, when you have a topic of education sitting next to you and former Jovanovic's minister during whose term the rights of professors, teachers, teachers have been reduced. The coefficients, the regressions, the goddesses, the additions are all reduced. When it comes to local self-government, so I understand you on a certain side that you have ambitions, you have programs, you have some desire to advance, but you are now again as a SDP, sending a message to the HDZ government that has decentralised itself over the past two years, so it has given units of local and regional self-government along with all functional decentralization, along with all joint projects from national envelopes, from Europeans with continuous dialogue, with joint passing through all the fundamental laws that concern you with mayors, any associations of cities, whether the community decentralised 3 billion kunas, 3 billion kunas more than before, you understand. So, a very similar situation here for education we give more than ever, more than anyone, more than anyone. On the table you have an offer that means a cumulative 23.1% salary increase in the government's mandate, 23.1%. Here, surely Minister Jovanovic would have been happy if he could have done such a thing for employees in the education sector. You to whom we've given 3 billion kunas now say you need more. What did you do about fiscal decentralisation when you had the opportunity and had the confidence to lead Croatia? I think the public simply has to shed light on these facts, so there are a lot of you here from the level of cities and municipalities from different parts of Croatia, it must be heard. There may be units that need more, but the general policy of this government, general policy and tax discharge and fiscal decentralisation has achieved results so far. Here we were together a few days ago at the election assembly of the Croatian Community county and the messages I hear from the mayor there are positive when they compete with what was before. The messages I hear from the cities, which I hear from the municipalities, people who are directly elected in those units they are positive and few who told me you know we are during your term worse than before, I have not heard it anywhere yet, and there is no county that I don't know how many times I haven't visited, as well as all the ministers here, so there is no project for which certain ministers do not experience them as if their jurisdiction, it is a kind of standard and dialogue for which those mayors who have experience of 3.4 or more mandates say, here's say Mayor Kozic of your county who remembers almost everything here, says it's not like that it was never and we'll continue with this policy, just what would be good to do that it's look at it's healthy growth, so there's not really a lot of growth, so there's a lot of bad growth, so there's a lot of bad growth, so there's a lot of bad growth, there's a lot of bad growth, there's a lot of people who's a lot of people who get a lot of money, who get a lot of money, who get a lot of money, who's a lot of money, who's a lot of money, who's a lot of money, who's a lot of money, who get a lot of money, who get a lot, who are a lot, who get a lot of money, who are a lot of money, who are a lot of money, who is a lot of money, who, who get a lot, who get a lot to say, who get to be a lot, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who is a lot, who, who gets to be a lot, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who gets to be a lot to be, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who who who who who who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who That's what we have to speak plainly because in the woods of this communication you can't hear it anymore. And that's what you need to say. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175103	Dear Representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175104	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Government, for not being provocative, but asking how to give our citizens a better life? I, you said at one point that you would like us to be in a partner relationship, so I wish we were in a partner relationship, I wanted to be a proud representative in HS who along with the government would ensure a better life of Croatian citizens, unfortunately it is not so in all... People are protesting, not protesting it, maybe because of 100 or 200,00 kn bigger salary, but because they see that here and injustice in this country, unfortunately it hurts me, I'd like to walk proudly as a parliamentary representative because I've made it possible in this HS better for people to live better, but unfortunately they don't live, that's a fact, unfortunately today some kids are driving cars, and they don't have days of internships, today our courts are taking some time than life, today some things don't work in the world, some cops have property that they just can't justify it, or local officials, these people see injustice in this country, and it hurts me, and they want us to create a better pair of partners, but we don't create it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the '90s, we were proud of the Republic and all that we achieved, that's behind us, that's the past, let's turn to the future as we get better, I want us to build a better future together. But today, RH, in the Republic of Croatia is not a virtue of honesty, of working, of respect, unfortunately it is not a virtue, and I would like that, I would like to have a better life all together and those who work than their work and those who learn and do not leave the Republic, a better life for all, and not only for those who are rich and who are privileged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175105	The next question will be asked by respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, the re-respected Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175106	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, before I ask the question, I will briefly look back on what you mentioned earlier because you may not know it, and you don't need to know, but the Government of Zoran Milanovic, after she welcomed the ruined finances, after she had worked hard to ensure order and secured the first growth, the first teachers who felt it were teachers, so in 2014, the Government of Zoran Milanovic increased the coefficients that you persistently refuse to increase to teachers, namely teachers, all teachers and teachers in direct educational work received increased odds 3.5%, mentors increased 6%, and that's true and that truth should be repeated. The question I want to ask you, I will quote you the provisions of a law that is normally passed by HS, as well as all the laws, Art. 6 of that law, the first employer must not put the applicant of irregularities in an unfavourable position due to the reporting of irregularities, secondly, by placing the applicant in an unfavourable position of irregularities, shall be deemed to be the cancellation of the Labour Treaty, the termination of the State Service, the launch of a tight procedure, the procrastination of tightening measures or penalties. Third, employer's acts that deprive the applicant of the rights due to the reporting of irregularities do not have legal effect. Fourthly, reporting irregularities is not considered a breach of business secrets. Do you know Mr. Prime Minister of the Law and do you feel as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia that this law must be respected or will you replace your associates if it turns out they do not respect this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175107	The Honorable Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175108	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic. The whistle-whispering law has been in effect since 1.7. Is that for a quiz? Now, that's okay. [[Clip intrusion: Yes]] If it's for a quiz, let's go back to a topic that you know better than this. So, I'll tell you one more time, it would be good for you as former Minister of Science and Education to be correct, to be correct in seeing the whole. So there are people here who remember what GDP was in 2011, and what GDP was in 2012. The HDZ government, which you then won in the December 2011 elections, enabled you to be the government that will be headed by the Republic of Croatia when we enter the EU, had then, according to the revised GDP data of -0.2, you have already taken phenomenal steps at -1.7. -1.7, here your colleague was then in the Government. What we have today and look at what we have today, so we now have a third quarter, you have 3,9, 2.9, now 2.9, that is healthy economic growth with a reduction of public debt, twice as fast as any other EU member with a European Course Mechanism 2, with a green Schengen light from the outgoing Junker Commission and with excellent political relations with the future commission that we will need through the next financial perspective that Mr. Prelac, together with us in partnership, can strengthen and implement projects where he is responsible, and the essence of the science and education systems if we give the unions a message yesterday that we want social dialogue in partnership to correct all the injustices that exist in the context of the regulation, it is unfair in itself, it is seen from the plane, you know that and we know that. To solve it completely, the whole point of politics is to have some whole solutions. These complete solutions will be resolved in the coming months where we will have trade unions and those who know the most about it and who are at the table and to suggest what is good and not whether GDP is this big or that big and how full of budgets, people are playing with coefficients or supplements. We've done everything to make the wages bigger. We've done everything to make the salaries bigger so we don't be in debt like some before the government. And that when the mandate is over, we say round, we're going seriously, we're spending as much as we make, not more than that. This means a balanced budget or surplus budget. These are the new standards in Croatian politics, which we didn't have. Yesterday some union representatives remembered when there was a huge increase in wages, coefficients, supplements or anything like that, you know when? When the tax press was increasing. This was the last time the VAT was introduced, in 1998 the VAT law entered into force and then the budget revenue increased, that was the last time the salaries were so increased. Here you have a consistent policy and an employee's favorite in education. As far as whistlers are concerned, they have absolutely the right, in accordance with both the law and the foundation of their own morals, to do whatever they do. Those who have made a mistake in any system, I think you refer here to the police system, I guess, that's the second question of quiz, they have to answer for it. Also, all these services have certain rules as they work and the police are one of them and should work according to the rule, therefore, I, as Prime Minister, expect everything to be in accordance with the law, absolute, without politicizing any or any topic, it is the essence of which is both in law and in principle and which leads us, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175109	Thank you. Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175110	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the facts are clear as much as you want to keep it quiet, the government of Z. Milanovic has increased the odds, you did not. The teachers want their coefficients to increase, we did it. All in direct education 3.5%, mentors 6%, advisors 8%. Here, increase them by 6.12% of the coefficients they ask of you and then consider the regulation whether it's good or not, so if it turns out it's not good, change it. Right now, the teachers want you to increase their coefficients by 6.12% or 11%, so do it and you'll solve all the problems. As far as the Blower Protection Act is concerned, I want a written answer to my question since it is clear that whistles in the state system are unprotected. So, they're told shut up, or you'll answer to Damir Sabelak and Miroslav Kotarc and the gentleman who showed the police illegal, inadmissible, abnormal behavior of the police chief. Why, Mr. Plenkovic, do you want to silence the whistles so badly? Instead of letting them be loud. So shut up, Singer of Pantovich, who, with the caricature of the defence minister, is causing untold damage to the OS. In your term of office, in the term of office of Mrs. Singers from Pantovac, trust in all institutions has been destroyed, in the Croatian government, in the judiciary, in the institution of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the only thing citizens believe is police and military. It's coming out of Pantovich, and it's coming down. I hope that the citizens will see it and that the elections will show that new people have to come and that Z. Milanovic will regain confidence in the institution of the President of the Republic of Croatia by coming to Pantovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175111	Now let's go to the 35th question, Representative Bozo Petrov asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175112	Your Honor, Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you a question on the subject I believe you are well-versed and I think it's time for us to hear concrete answers. So, the last few weeks have been a lot of debate on electronic and correspondence vote. I'm interested in your position on these two options. I wonder if you intend to do anything in the term of office of this government on this matter. Also, I'd like to know if you're going to do anything about amending the Election Law, and I know you've been talking about these possibilities, but we haven't had any concrete measures so far. Why am I asking you that question? For two reasons. The first reason is the trend in the turnout of Croatian citizens, voters in the elections. So, in the 2016 parliamentary elections, only 52% of voters came out. I wonder if you think the government can represent Croatia, does it have legitimacy if it is chosen by a minority of the population of the Republic of Croatia? The second reason I ask you is the number of Croatian citizens residing outside the Republic of Croatia. They're 800,000 as far as we could hear. And out of those 800,000 in the European parliamentary elections, only 28% came out, and of those 28, 10,000 voted for other lists in those countries where they live today, in Ireland, Germany, so out of 800,000 people, only 10,000 voted for Croatian political options, so I would like you to come out with numbers if you have, how many voters per country, preferably in those where there exists and lives a significant number of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175113	Thank you. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175114	Thank you very much, Mr. Petrov. You have colleagues here from the opposition who, as you know, were, in 2010 when the Constitution was changed, insisted, we have to keep saying it, it is important that our people, Croats outside of Croatia, were the constituent people in BiH, Croatian national minorities in countries where they exist or Croats living in different parts of the world, who were then depressed, were denied the right to organise our diplomatic missions and consular offices in several cities in the countries where Croats live. Then the SDP insisted that... The whole package of amendments to the Constitution that were necessary at the time for a number of reasons before EU membership to prevent this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, absolutely that is true, so then the SDP insisted that in the Constitution, slowly, these are two things, and that, too, and you have limited the representatives of Croats outside Croatia no matter how many votes, so two types of restrictions, so no matter how many voters go out to the elections outside Croatia, to get out 800 thousand, they would according to what you said at the time were maximum three. So we would be worth a lot more than an average of 14 thousand votes one voter, one representative in the Croatian Parliament. So it was SDP policy, it's important that colleagues from the Most know. That was nine years ago. I don't remember you being here at the time, but it's important to know and remind. So thanks to the SDP we have a limited number of MPs, here is Mr. Raguž Hrvatvat outside Croatia to three, it is the same aki as these achievements in education with the reduction of the coefficient supplements, the removal of the goddess, the regression and the reduction of wages and that is aki. Plus the inability to vote outside that city where it's the headquarters of a diplomatic mission. I'm going to tell you this as someone who organised the election because, for example, I was on a mandate in Paris, we weren't having any problem, so I don't see at all what that was about, nor are these great costs, nor is it technically demanding, to go away, to organise elections, for example, from Paris, there go two people from our embassy in Lyon's organization. In Strasbourg they organize there, in Nice or Marseille they organize without a problem where Croats live. Today, for example, these people have to travel 700, 800, 900 km to the embassy in Paris. It's a pretty big investment and it's the SDP's achievement, we need to talk about it, the SDP's achievement, if you want to take a seat on a plane, car, train or any other way to come and drive for hours to vote, it's a luxury. It's not the HDZ, Mr. Petrov, it's the SDP. And certainly there would be a number of people who would go to elections outside Croatia if they could. As far as the electoral system is concerned, we certainly won't change the Election Law in the election year, so we won't change it now. What I think is the key is to make a single whole electoral law in the future that would regulate the election for the president, the president, regardless of the appeals of Agent Jovanovic, will be won by President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Two, elections for the Croatian Parliament, elections for the European Parliament and elections for our units of regional and local self-government, to level them and to be consistent. This is what is the key and what is the goal and we will work on it systematically and peacefully after the next election. Thank you. In all aspects and technical aspects of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175115	Here's an indication. Excuse me, Officer Bauk's injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175116	Mr. President, I'm going to risk a heads-up and appeal to Article 238. So Mr. Prime Minister isn't up to us, it's up to us together 3 if it were for us to ask it would be 0. No, no, we agreed with you for 3 if it were just us it would have been 0, because of the historical truth and the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175117	Of course you'll get a warning from a colleague named Bauk, you're aware. Here's a colleague of Peter's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175118	Dear Prime Minister, I think that all of Croatia knows that right here HDZ then voted 10 years ago to abolish the way of the letter vote, so don't switch, and just as a colleague from the SDP told you expensively you did it, for the sake of historical truth. What I must say and what I must say, you did not talk about an electronic vote from which I can conclude that you have a certain skepticism according to an electronic vote, which is then in colluding with the statements of your candidate for president who said she would insist on an electronic and correspondence vote which then actually draws the conclusion that this is another of the foggy pre-election promises to deceive Croatian citizens. What's more important to me, it's clear to me, you haven't been paying attention to the figures, I know you can't take them out of your sleeve, so I ask you to provide information on the number of Croatian citizens with the right to vote who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia by grouping them across countries where they are staying and delivering these data for the last 10 years. I believe it will be very interesting to see these trends in this time period per country. I am also aware that this general question about the electoral system cannot be changed in such a coalition with such petty political traders however you turn in whatever direction you disagree with us that you should change or in your direction you will erase your potential partners. And when you ask who's crazy, maybe they're crazy, listen to your remarks that have driven half a million people out of Croatia to pay those half a million social aids of 18 billion kuna so that you can spend them with your mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175119	Thank you. We have three more questions, so let me just say that after that, we'll have a free speech and we'll get back to work at 3:00. Let's go now. So the 36th question is from Mladen Madjer, referred to by Maria Vukkovic to the agriculture minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175121	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is about the categorisation of the family farms that was made for the occurrence of swine fever. Of course the ministry paid for the first categorization. Unfortunately, the largest part of the categorization is found in the worst group i.e. In the first group, unfortunately family farming means it is and, you can see what agriculture looks like to us at all, unfortunately. So my question to the minister why the ministry doesn't pay decategorisation or the request of people who submit first-class categorization for second-class categorization, it amounts to 180 kuna. So it's up to 10 pieces of pig farming, 10 to 100 is 750 kuna. Which is why he doesn't pay the ministry to help these farmers in this difficult situation because now imagine, for 5 pieces of pigs, a man must practically and with a triquineloscope examination must pay one of the 5, one goes to veterinary services and this. It is clear that every family economy has to adapt to avoid the first category, to pass into the second category, so it is one cost that must be adjusted, but for what reason did the Ministry of Agriculture pay for the categorisation that was made throughout Croatia not to help farmers and why not pay those 180 kunas per OPG?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175122	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175123	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So the process of adaptation to biosafety began in 2009. I must point this out first, but given the dangers of African swine fever, this ministry has carried out a series of checks during the spring and summer and has therefore noticed that 60 percent, as you said unfortunately, does not satisfy the agricultural economies in Croatia at all with biosafety measures. A little more than 30% have partially satisfied, and the remaining smallest percentage has complied with completely biosafety measures. I repeat, everyone has been obliged to implement these measures since 2009, what we did this year, that we have invested 23 million kuna and 100 thousand kuna in the process of reviewing the satisfaction of categorization, as a percentage of prevention and the same, in competitions for the financing of double fences to unencumbered economies. I think it's about important money and the ministry has put priorities together well. Also, in this year we responded to a series of needs, we had a series of interventions on the market, we provided additional funds for direct payments and the necessary shares for investment. So you can never do anything. Agricultural economies that were to meet biosecurity measures 10 years ago in order to retegorise should, as far as I know, pay 285 kuna, but the Ministry of Agriculture will, as so far, of course, try to find an additional financial solution if the holding is in too difficult situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175124	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175125	In part, I agree, and this is the last thing you said to me that the ministry is going to meet, that it will find some of the funds because we have to bear in mind, unfortunately for 10 years, I know that it has to be adapted, but it is still a reality, that reality that is happening in our rural environments, and I'm afraid only that, as we have destroyed cattle, milking, that we don't destroy pigs, that even those who have up to 10 pigs will unfortunately not shut down and that there won't be any more of them. And these big 10-100s, I hope they meet these conditions in some way to go into the third category, but I say I appeal and still find some means to help those most endangered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175126	Now, let's go to question 37, Representative Gordan Maras is asking him to be Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175127	Thank you very much. The question goes to Mr Plenkovic, and first of all, I must say that I am extremely proud of the employees of the education system who today largely reject the offer offered by Prime Minister Plenkovic and the HDZ Government to all those teachers, kitchen teachers, libraries, schools that have been waiting for more than 30 days for Prime Minister Plenkovic to allow himself to talk to them. To talk to them to see what the problem is and to meet the legitimate requirements of all those who have gathered in large numbers in Ban Jelačić Square, but also to all those across Croatia who support the employees in education and who are behind them, and these are the vast majority. I congratulate all those who insist on it and hope that the unions will not be lenient but will seek what teachers and teachers are entitled to. Talk to them, Prime Minister, don't act tall, and what particularly bothers me is when I see injustice, when I see that on the subject of talks in the city of Zagreb with a corrupt coalition that we have at work in the town hall, but also in the Croatian Parliament, the mayor Bandic talks at night. When you need to stand behind GUP that will be kidnapped by Croatian citizens, Zagreb and Zagreb women hundreds of thousands of square meters of green surface, you solve it in one day. HDZ is behind GUP, you're behind GUP. And I'm curious, Mr. Prime Minister, why it's so hard to talk and I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister, whether you're behind the political changes of the GUP in the city of Zagreb and whether you're going to let Bandic make the aim of those who want to Fill your pockets [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The expense of our fellow citizens. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175128	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175129	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Maras. For a moment, I thought it would be the first question not related to the city of Zagreb. However, as we run a consistent policy of increasing education wages, in the state and public sectors, so you constantly confabulate two representative bodies, the Croatian Parliament and the City Assembly. I would like for you to have the opportunity to speak in the City Assembly of Zagreb so that you can articulate those topics concerning issues related to the capital of Croatia and not burden the assembly with certain frustrations, ambitions, wishes, greetings, whatever you want about the city of Zagreb. What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on GUP is only one principle, one principle and most important, and that is legality. It is through this principle that the Ministry of Civil Engineering looks at all aspects of the document. Consistency with higher regulations. The only principle, the principle of legality. If the principle of legality is fulfilled, neither is the Government nor in this case the Ministry of Construction, there is no choice, so it is not arbitrarily, Mr Maras. As for your pride, congratulations and everything else about the strike, so here we come, here you are now, I don't know, fifth, sixth or seventh SDP representative who asks the same question. What's your goal? Is it your goal to tell teachers, teachers and teachers that you wouldn't do well if your salaries grew by 10.4% next year, is that the goal? Are you saying that your message is not to accept the offer that is on the table, which is complete, which goes towards improving the status, which offers partnership, dialogue, respect, which even has an extra 1% fuse in the same calendar year and which will have a cumulative effect on the salary increase in this government's mandate by 23.1%? Do you, as a rational, responsible politician who cares for teachers, cares for unskilled staff in schools, want to send a message, do not accept an increase in wages that will, at the end of next year, mean 23% more wages than in October 2016? That's what people need to hear, so we know what you really want. Support for what? Supporting the fact that you think it's not a good idea for us to deal with unions in a whole way with the coefficient issue once and for all? If we didn't have a cumulatively strong minister, the influence of the minister, the acute problem, the chronic problem, let's give it to this little one, and eventually there's a forest, and there's a lot of trees in the forest that have "Unjustness" on them, and everyone feels that they're in an unfair position. I assume you as Minister of Government are aware that the demands of a series of other resistors would automatically begin for an equal increase. Why is it logical to take the main runway, the runway of a basic collective contract? Because it's consistent with salary increases policy in line with healthy economic growth unlike when you were in government, healthy. And that's what people need to know. You're practically suggesting that people don't have a higher salary over the next year for an extra 10.4%. Which is 23%, that's your message, that the public must know, so that's your message, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175130	Thank you. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175131	Thank you very much. It would be easy for you if it were my message, but it's a message today from a large number of teachers and teachers and non-teachers in the education system. The acclaims reject your offer, so it's not my message, I'm only talking here by playing the case on their behalf because they can't say it to your face, so I took it for granted. I'm asking you here why my kid doesn't go to school for 30 days? Do I organize an education system or the government of the Republic of Croatia, you and the minister, I don't know where she's gone, today she's gone all day? Why isn't there a 30th and a few days of school in the Republic of Croatia? Why are the kids home when they're not at school? That's my question. If you want and if they want it, then take your 10% back and give them 6.11, right? Give them 6:11, what the odds were looking for. Make a deal with the people, find a way for the school to start working. What you're doing, you're underestimating them first, you're saying you can lift 100% of the coefficient, you're laughing at people in the face, you're causing a crisis, and you're making kids not go to school 30 and the other day, and who knows when that's gonna end. The system doesn't work and the parents are justifiably angry with you and provide support to teachers and teachers. 50,000 people would not be gathered in the main Croatian square in the city of Zagreb if there were no support for teachers and teachers. I am giving them full support as a parent, let them endure what they need, so my teachers, from my daughter and son, have my full support to fight for their rights because this is the kind of approach that you and Bandic spend overnight agreeing on GUP, when HDZ is politically behind the abduction of the country in Zagreb and on the other hand for 30 days you do not have the opportunity to sit with teachers and teachers, of course I cannot support it. Here's what I resent, but it resents what is more important and all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175132	Thank you, Comrade Maras. Let's go to the last question, Commissioner Bernarda Topolko asks Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175134	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I'm asking a question inspired by citizens' reactions. Namely, in some parts of the Republic of Croatia and local roads are in very poor condition. My question is what do you as Minister of Transport intend to do to improve the situation? In fact, you and I both know that ZUCs are financed from road charges paid for when registering motor vehicles that have not changed since 2003 or around 2010. Citizens believe they have two duties. One is a road fee, and the other is a tax to be paid on motor vehicles. Namely, I know that the taxes on motor vehicles go to the county register, which you are thinking and how to improve our roads and to make the citizens happy. Also, citizens would know that taxes paid on motor vehicles do not go to the ZUCs but go to the county, and some counties do not direct it to the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175135	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175136	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam MPs in your question have, I'd say I agree with him, everything you've said. The fact is that the county road administrations that they have in their area cover about 21,000 roads with total income for all ZUCs are about 880 million kunas, it is insufficient for the county road administrations to maintain quality quality and to invest quality in their roads in their territory, and I also add those local roads that belong to ZUC. The fact is that once the county road administrations had a total income of about a billion and 200 million kuna, but the decisions of previous governments, in particular in the term of office by 2015. And in that sense, we have in two years, and we will do so this year in budget rebalancing, the state budget found funds in total in 250 million kuna in two years to help the ZUCs, especially those who can't according to their incomes, and they have a large area of roads, there are several in Croatia who are really hard, I won't list them who are, at all, able to function. This is what we will do this year with a total amount of 143 million kuna and these funds will be allocated to ZUCs for the equalization of standards and, of course, in accordance with the conversation with ZUCs. It's all small and it's not long-term. So the ZUCs have to wait for budget rebalancing, they have to wait for the government's good will, the minister, the Prime Minister, etc. And then, in that sense, we're thinking about how to solve this problem as part of the amendments to the Law on the Roads. There are several variants, from the existing fuel excise charge of 1.20 by redistributing funds to help the ZUCs get some additional funding, but all together is still in the phase of the agreement with the Ministry of Finance, there are several variations, in any case we will address the issue of financing of the county road administrations in the term of this government. It is our obligation because they, I repeat, have 21,000 km covering unlike the Croatian roads that have 7,000 km, and have an annual income of about 2 billion kuna. So as soon as it does, the law is at the end, the solutions are on the table, as soon as we have that, we'll communicate publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175137	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175138	Thank you. Thank you with the answer, I am mostly satisfied. I hope that the new Road Safety Act will be discussed as soon as possible or accepted. Also, I urge you to try to think about this tax on motor vehicles paid up to the age of 10 years of the vehicle, so that this would be strictly intended and that this part of the story would also be included in the county road administrations, or on the roads of the county and locals, in order to resolve these and the damages, especially now after the winter period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175139	I thank my colleague, and this ends with the current morning. Now, I'm asking those of you who don't want to be here during the free speech to leave the assembly, we have four registered free speeches for now, and we'll continue at 3:00. At 3:00, we will proceed with the first item of the agenda. It's 13,40 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work - Report on meetings of the European Council and of the European Council (Article 50) which took place in Brussels on 17 and 18 October 2019, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to further explain the reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175141	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, I am pleased to inform you again about the meetings of the European Council at which we make decisions concerning all Croatian citizens. This reporting practice is important for you MPs to get firsthand information on discussions on the EU's highest political body, for our citizens who through parliamentary debate have an opportunity to become familiar with key European topics affecting everyday life. Also for media representatives who can monitor our discussions and inform citizens about policies that contribute to the development of the Croatian economy and Croatian society. This is how we send a message to Croatian citizens that Croatian institutions act coordinated at EU level, that, through the advocate of our representatives, either in the Council, or in the European Parliament, either in the commission, we advocate Croatian interests within the EU. This is particularly important ahead of our first EU Council Presidency, and I would like to remind you that here, today, the Union is at the beginning of a new and institutional cycle and that, as you have seen in the media in the European Parliament in Strasbourg, a new Commission of Ursula von der Leyen is confirmed. There are still uncertainty about the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, we will see what the results of the elections will be. Also, negotiations on the multiannual financial framework are under way, and this is particularly important to stress that Croatia as a full member for the first time participates in all phases of talks on the seven-year budget. In this context, I would like to inform you that we have discussed on the October European Council a new institutional framework of the Union, the enlargement process, Brexit, the seven-year budget, climate change and Turkey. We also discussed on the Council the implementation of a strategic Union programme adopted in June and priorities for the period 2019 to 2024, where the future president of the Commission presented her political priorities at that time with focus on six main areas. First is development, research for innovation. Two is all about climate policy. Three, digitization. Four, migration. Five, therefore, includes a competitive Europe. And six, a Europe that is strong in the world. It is a framework as seen by the new European Commission with over 400 trust and some representatives in the European Parliament today. The programme she presented greatly coincides with the June EU Strategic Programme, which has put emphasis on digitisation and on the green plan for Europe. The two plans are expected to be key in preserving European competitiveness in the context of the digital revolution. Finnish Prime Minister Ante Rinne informed us about the steps taken in implementing the strategic programme, and specifically talked about the issues of rule of law, hybrid threats, sustainable development and climate. At Council level, we welcomed this debate as the beginning of a dialogue that should ensure that priorities and strategic programmes enter into the operational programmes of the future commission. Croatia, as I pointed out, wants to contribute to the unity and solidarity of greater cohesion, uniform development and convergence. opportunities for those less developed members of the Union to reach those that are better and more developed. In this regard, we can be proud that Croatia's proposal to debate in Sibiu and in June in Brussels on the inclusion of demographics in the Union's strategic, strategic programme, and this issue was recognised by the new president of the commission. It is literally a new achievement on the Croatian initiative. This topic is otherwise not within the competence of the Union institutions, but it is horizontal and important for more than half of the members who have a problem with negative natural growth. It is therefore particularly important for us that this topic will be addressed by the Croatian Vice-President of the European Commission Dubravka Šuica, whom I congratulate today on the election. I would also like to say that we are in a position to advocate two basic strategic priorities, so two main runways of Croatia when it comes to our strategic goals, these are entering the Schengen area for which we have received as you saw the Green Light of the Juncker Commission, just as it announced during its visit to Croatia in June, but based on Croatia's achievements and meeting the conditions and criteria of eight areas of the Schengen acquis. Commissioner Avramopoulos' arrival has been a confirmation of our dedicated work over the past few years. And I will remind once again of the 271m-euro absorption to strengthen the Croatian border control to prepare for Schengen. The second topic is entering the European Course Mechanism two, which is Croatia's first step towards future entry into the euro area. I will remind again in the accession contract Croatia signed in 2011 is one of the elements and joining the euro area at the time when Croatia meets the conditions to join it, it is important to remind the Croatian public. One of the important topics in October was the topic of enlargement, and unfortunately despite the European Commission's positive recommendations, the European Parliament's calls for a strong push for a large majority of Member States, of course including Croatia, since we know better about opportunities in our neighbourhood, I am convinced that a quality opportunity has been missed to decide on the start of accession negotiations with an intergovernmental conference with Northern Macedonia and Albania. You heard the statements, within a day of the former leaders of the European institutions and Jean Claude Juncker and Donald Tusk, who briefly said that it was either a lack of a strategic vision or a historical mistake. But what has been decided that we will return to this topic before the summit between the EU leaders and the Southeast European states is held on our initiative here in Zagreb in May. The decision has not been made because the system of decision-making is a consensus and, unfortunately, several Member States have not given their agreement, each for their own reasons and their own visas. Why is it important for Croatia to make certain decisions on the Spring European Council? Because we are aware of how important the enlargement process is for the transformation of those countries that are not yet in the Union, how important it is for peace, how important it is for stability, and in particular in Southeast Europe, and how well the accession process is always a lever for the taking of reform processes and for the democratic values of strengthening the legal system or for the reforms that are going to make all these countries in our Southeast neighbourhood a functioning market economy, which at this point, according to the assessments of international institutions, is still an important element. We also believe that this would be good for good neighbourly relations, resolving open issues, respecting human and minority rights. In fact, this entire area of Southeast Europe is surrounded by members of the Union, and when you look in the strategic sense of this country, there is only one real way of developing and belonging to it. That is why in all our efforts we want to help with our experience that neighbouring countries are moving forward, to move forward based on the technology and methodology of the negotiations that Croatia knows very well. The mood within the EU for enlargement is freely established. There are several reasons for this, the first and main feeling of some members that the more demanding functioning of the Union with an additional number of members compared to today, so theoretically we are talking about 28+6 maximum in a real sum of 27+x I would say in due time. The second is the consequences of the financial-economic crisis from the end of last decade. The third political consequences are the biggest political architecture in the member states, and these are the effects of the refugee-immigration crisis. No other political event has ever had a greater impact on the mood towards the European project than was left by the 2015 and '16 crisis. And I say that specifically, especially the migration wave with so-called. the eastern Mediterranean or Western Balkan routes which are the only land route and which, when at the highest level, has led to major changes on the political scene of individual Member States, and with them are both political parties and public systems still dealing. What is on the agenda today is a discussion on the methodology of negotiations on the initiative of some countries. I would like to remind once again that Croatia has not only the principle of Croatian key institutions that have personally participated in this process but at the highest level knows more details about the process than many others because of the freshness of our experience. The insurance companies mentioned today by some members are practically already embedded in the negotiating frameworks, such as for negotiations with Serbia-Montenegro. If there are reasons to suspend a chapter, it already exists. If there are reasons for the negotiation process following a chapter, for example, temporarily closing because of a change in circumstances and some new knowledge reopening negotiations on this chapter and this can be done in accordance with the current methodology. So you have the possibility of both suspensions and reversibility as an argument used today. We therefore believe that we need to take a realistic look at the timing of the negotiations. Croatia has negotiated, many of you know this in detail who were in the Croatian Parliament at the time and followed the consensus process of joining the Croatian EU, there was then more support than it was today for people who sat in these Parliament meetings, and that is also to be said to the European idea and our membership lasted 5 years and 9 months. For the illustration, Montenegro, which began in 2012, has been negotiating for 7 and a half years now, Serbia which started in 2014, has been negotiating for nearly 6 years and is not half the process. Not even in half. So we are looking at how demanding the process has been to step up the methodology of negotiations after Croatian membership in the EU. For all these reasons, it is our wish that 20 years after the first Zagreb summit, which was a major event held in November 2000 in the cooperation of Croatia and then the chairman of France, next year, now in a completely different role and as the only country that was then from 6 countries that participated in Southeast Europe, in fact a successful story, only Croatia came to the finish line and is already at that point, it will be almost 7 years old. No other state in Southeast Europe will be anywhere near that goal. And that is why Croatia has special added value to its expertise, its role as well as its symbol for the enlargement process, and therefore we have chosen to have such a meeting at the top here. We are also conducting consultations with key partners in the Union and, of course, with new leaders of institutions but also with neighbouring countries how to calibrate the realistic expectations of those who want ahead and knowing the details, mood and real opportunities of those who are in the Union today. It is a formula in which Croatia as host and as the country that will preside in cooperation with the new President of the European Council Charles Michel, must find the right balance that we have political messages that will, in our deep conviction, travel a real pilgrimage for the decade ahead. That's what we want to achieve. This is the meaning of this meeting, especially demanding in these circumstances where we are both there and myself personally several times during the debate said that this is really bad after, for example, Sj. Macedonia changes its name, changes the constitution and a number of other agreements towards Greece, eventually experiencing negotiations not opening. That message's not good. And the consequences we see, the April 12th election in Macedonia. As for Albania, and we supported it, we have met for the past few weeks with both the president and the prime minister and their associates, reacting spotlessly to this huge earthquake and tragedy that occurred in Drac and in smaller places around Drac, where Croatia reacted without delay, sending teams that went to HV helicopters in search of and rescue survivors from the ruins and in contact with Albanian authorities for further support and support according to what they need to mitigate the consequences of this natural disaster. As for Brexit, another topic that was really discussed at the meeting, today we can estimate that we are closer to Brexit than ever before. So this saga lasts for several years, from the announcement of now already former Prime Minister Cameron to the referendum, his results, government attempts by Therese May, and finally this last agreement and the adjustment of the protocol on Ireland and Sj. Ireland, a declaration of future relations between the Union and the United Kingdom, to ensure, after the next elections, the so-called the regulated Brexit, will be governed by the agreement reached between the 27 members of the one part and the United Kingdom on the other hand. What were our basic goals? Number one, avoid the hard line between Ireland and Sj. Ireland, two, preserve the economy on the entire Irish island, so the cooperation of Sj. Ireland and Ireland and thirdly, the protection of the integrity of the EU single market. All these aspects are included in the final text of the agreement after the adjustments have been made. Our position was the position of legal certainty and solidarity with Ireland, which we reiterated to Irish Prime Minister Varadkar, who was in Croatia last week, and I think the solutions that were found, which primarily means that Sj will. Ireland remains part of British customs territory but continues to apply certain Union rules in that part of the Irish island and that the United Kingdom will apply its customs tariffs on goods originating from third countries to the North. Ireland and the goods will not continue their path towards the EU. So, there's a distinction. What is important is that Northern Irish institutions are given the possibility to decide on a possible continuation of the implementation agreed after the expiry of the original period of 4 years. all the other members have shown readiness for Brexit, I recall, it is the type of agreement which does not require ratification in national parliaments but requires ratification in the United Kingdom parliament, so the House of Representatives and the European Parliament at Council level when it comes to the Union is therefore the current date which we are talking about on 31 January 2020, so at the moment when Croatia is chairing the council and on this side we expect a regular and agreed withdrawal for which we will stand and as chairman in the weeks and months ahead. We'll let the British voters demonstrate their will on December 12th. As regards the most important document without any dilemmas to be discussed during our presidency, which is essentially a series of documents on the multiannual financial framework because it is legally several acts. The Finns proposed talks in 3 blocks, total budget height, volume of main policies and conditionality, 3 elements discussed after consultations, consultations with all members. The point of the whole exercise is to find the right balance between the need to finance the so-called We call them Colloquial Traditional Policies, which are primarily agricultural and cohesion policy and new challenges, and the new challenges are as well known by all of these priorities of the new Commission of Strategic Programmes and Security and Climate Change and the digital economy. According to what was evident at the meeting after these consultations, there is no need for balance, we expect a council in December that will be held in mid-December, a new proposal for a negotiating framework by Finland to try to find a balance. Our position in the national capacity was approximately at 1.11 gross national product level at EU level, so this is the position of the Republic of Croatia which was largely on the trail of what was originally proposed in May 2018 by the Junker Commission and the Commissioner for Budget Etinger because we felt that there was an adequate balance between the revenue and expenditure side of the European budget that ex-legis there must be balanced, there is no deficit there, it is also good that we have in mind. We took part in preparations for these meetings and in a meeting of friends of cohesion in Prague a few weeks ago where it is quite clear and obvious that most members, so to speak. The net beneficiary of the European budget, so those who receive more than payments, is not satisfied with the proposal that was on the table and who will seek to keep a consistent attitude of all cohesion friends in relation to those who are net payers, therefore more economically strong, larger members of the Union, what should always be repeated, 10 large Western rich members of the Union are paying 80% of the European budget, this is always important to bear in mind because we also need to sensitise on this subject in an appropriate way. The Republic of Croatia will, in agreement with Finland, and with Germany who, after us, try to make a step, find a solution to reach this agreement right during our chairmanship. Why does it matter? It is important because the new financial perspective starts in January 2021, experience shows that any delay affects the implementation of operational programmes i.e. the remaining funds which are not absorbed and used and the common objective is not to do so and therefore it is necessary to make an effort to reach an agreement. One of the main topics that we also discussed was climate change, you know that climate change poses an existential threat that requires the EU to move forward with additional efforts, and a major international conference on the subject will be organised in Madrid shortly next week. It is particularly important that Croatia supports investments in climate energy transition, it is one of the most important messages where we need to find a balance that will allow us to adapt to the challenges between energy security, what is related to industrial policy and climate change adaptation policy in an economically efficient way. The topic that is important to us is also science and research and entrepreneurship and youth on which we will try to connect everything that is related to climate change and this policy. The fact that Turkey was also expected to be discussed in view of the moment when the European Council meeting took place where the Council in its conclusions condemned a consensus, so without any fences or dilemmas of any member, a unilateral action by Turkey in northeastern Syria that led to human casualties, the Union intended to remain fully involved in the resolution of the humanitarian refugee crisis, this is particularly important for us, so once again I underline the unusually important importance of reaching an agreement with Turkey on the trail of the Declaration adopted over the past few years and where an agreement was reached on the financial arrangement was reached, the financial arrangement was difficult for 6 billion euros, 6 billion euros in European aid to Turkey to refugees and immigrants remaining in Turkey's territory. For the Republic of Croatia on this land-based eastern Mediterranean and western Balkan route, there is no doubt that one agreement on this trail, and the talks are being conducted, will be reached for the period ahead and I think that we have a lot of understanding and common position of all political actors in the Republic. Finally, in this context of the Union's strategic programme at Council level, I would like to repeat the 4 interlinked and complementary priorities defined by the Republic of Croatia in its programme, the new President-in-Office of the Ursula von der Leyen Commission. At the end of October, 30 or 31 October, we presented in Zagreb the frameworks of our priorities, meanwhile, in an inclusive way we held in Rijeka a conference where we presented priorities in the bloc of what we call Europe that is developing, in Split at a Europe conference that protects, in Osijek yesterday, Europe that is influential and follows the latest Europe conference that is developing in Varazdin. So, plannedly, we systematically wanted to open a debate with citizens about all segments of our priorities during the presidency in the largest Croatian cities with the ambition to make our public and outside the City of Zagreb aware of what the key elements are ahead of us. So, along with these four blocks, with two capital European issues, Brexit and a multi-annual financial framework, the third element that is extremely important is this summit in Zagreb with us neighbouring countries. So these four pillars and these three concrete processes, or events that include the European perspective of our neighbours, will be one of the tasks of the Croatian Presidency. I think now is a mature time, so next year we will have practically 30 years of Croatian democracy, we will have a chance to head the council, we will be seven years ago of membership, so we will be able to assess Croatia's first real passing time as a member of the EU. If we've made enough sense of this achievement, I think it's task number one, and I think first of all about the general atmosphere in the Croatian public and the sensitization of citizens, it's one topic and that's why we're doing this here in the Croatian Parliament because this wasn't a practice before, in order to allow representatives to be participated on these topics more than it was before, and it's very important to recognize it. Two, let's see the political benefits, three to see the economic benefits and four to see the development benefits. And then with that first-time analysis, we see what we have to do in the next 7 years plus those 3 until we can use European funds, which is practically the next decade to come into the phase, and that's what I'm going to conclude, that's my ambition, and the whole government, and all of us who have been dealing with European affairs for a number of years in different roles, that Croatia after two financial perspectives looks back and says this kind of context, since 1 July 2013, so let's say 15 years later, our achievements are the following, because this is the most important message sent by the heads of government of Central and Eastern Europe. There is not one who will say that he is dissatisfied with what his country has achieved in the first 15 years of membership. And that must be our goal, our ambition, our information, our knowledge, our courage and our skills to lead this process we have enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175142	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175143	He would ask for a break on behalf of the MOST Club, 10 minutes on the report on meetings in the European Council presented by the prime minister, of course we will have reason to debate and discuss this during the debate of colleagues and colleagues. However, I would only remind the prime minister and all of us here of the 2016 decision. The government of the Republic of Serbia, to which the foreign minister has to convene four annual meetings of the Committee for the Monitoring of the implementation of Serbian criteria in the opening of Chapters 23 and 24 on Serbia's accession to the EU. Here, as we all know, new Minister Grlic Radman has been head of Serbia's monitoring committee for a month, but none have called for these four mandatory meetings. The commission only called once for the Prime Minister, counterparts and colleagues, and this is in the mandate of Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic. I think that here we are after 30 years of democracy, where Croatian defenders all fought together for democracy, that ministers should respect, the respected foreign minister of this decision, but neither his predecessors, nor Stier, nor Pejcinovic Buric respected this decision, which means that it is probably under the auspices of Prime Minister Plenkovic because we need to know that this decision has been made to fully, that full compliance with Serbia's obligations to compensate for the victims of Serbian aggression, there are also missing, there is war damage. However, apparently Serbia and Aleksandar Vucic, who is broken from your family to the prime minister, opens up means at this time when he opens chapters, neatly opens them up and makes fun of the victims of the Vukovar, by raising monuments to the Chetnik and the criminal in Belgrade. However, it is not Vucic's fault, but you, Prime Minister Plenkovic, because you allow Serbia to humiliate Croatians Victims. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's why I'm asking for a break for contempt means law by the minister. [[Intruder: Stanka will be approved.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175144	Thank you very much. A colleague named Maras called, I'm guessing the same break, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The SDP advocates' club is looking for a break on this issue, I would say, and the functioning of us as countries within the EU, the European Council, because here I have given myself the effort in this short stop that we have had from the current hour to this, and I have studied it, so no EU member state has been in a situation that more than 30 days of school is not working. So if we want to talk here about Northern Macedonia, Albania, about these countries wanting to join the EU, then we need to see if our country is working or not. It is a shame that Prime Minister Plenkovic cannot sit with people for more than 30 days and agree to meet their demands. I was asked by teachers both teaching and non-teaching staff from our schools to hand over pictures from the classrooms today, where people clearly present their position on the offer made by Prime Minister Plenkovic. More, less all of us. Here are over 1,000 employees who have made their photos public today about sending a very strong message to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the ruling majority of HDZ where Croatia speaks must function. This is a dysfunctional government, get more together and solve the problem. The message you received today from your education staff is no, I don't want what you've given us because that's not the solution. Talk to us. If you and Bandic can solve the GUP overnight to make a few rich by hundreds of millions of kunas, then you can also fulfill what teachers ask of you, which is an increase in coefficients. And this is how the teachers played a little bit and they sent Prime Minister Andrej with not very creative... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175146	Thank you, colleague Maras. The apartment will be approved. Here's my colleague, Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175147	... The report on the European Council held and specifically singled out the work of the Government not only at Council level but above all to point out everything the Government is doing in Croatia, we would especially like to point out the difference in the work of the HDZ Government in relation to the work of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, whose member was also colleague Maras and colleagues, Mrak Taritaš and Mrs Milanka Opačić, also. [[Specially enabled.]] And then I would like to repeat that the government of Zoran Milanovic introduced a age-old retirement limit into the Croatian social and pension system to retire from 67 years to sign it with its own hand and oppose its own decision. I now listen to the ministers from the government of Zoran Milanovic tell us about the situation in Croatian education, they are concerned about the dignity and face of Croatian professors, teachers and teachers, while at the same time reducing their salaries, allowances, abolished Christmas, abolished the regression, etc., etc. As perhaps the highlight that best shows the SDP's and SDP's current or former officials' behaviour is to file a constitutional suit to the Constitutional Court that the decision and the law under which parliamentary MPs' pensions were abolished in 2012, these same SDP advocates who requested that pensions be abolished by parliamentarians are now mass-prosecuted constitutional charges because their constitutional rights were violated. Here's what best says about the credibility of the SDP, its ministers and officials. And now they're crying over the fates of others...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175148	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. The break will be approved. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175149	I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. Namely, I heard in a statement by the respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia that he placed Croatia on the Balkans on two occasions. Dear Prime Minister, Croatia is not in the Balkans, Croatia is not a Balkan country. So when you mention some Western-Balkan route a little bit here, you still open up some geography textbook. In fact, the notion of the Balkan peninsula doesn't exist at all as such, you obviously don't know. The notion of the Balkans is exclusively a cultural and political concept. If you, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, put Croatia in the Balkans in European institutions, then Croatia has a very big problem. It's not a small problem, Prime Minister, it's a very big problem. So if we take from the Gulf of Trstian to the Baltic Sea, or the Gulf of Trstian to the Black Sea, we'll see that this link, or distance to the Black Sea, is much bigger, so we can't talk about the Balkan peninsula at all. So the Balkan peninsula, or what is thought to be the Balkans, can be considered an area exclusively east of the Drina River, and Croatia is not in the Balkans. The Balkans is exclusively a cultural concept used by politicians obviously like you. However, I will repeat, Croatia has one very big problem if the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia puts Croatia on the Balkans. Please correct this and use the term you have also used, the Eastern Mediterranean migration route, not the Western Balkan, because Croatia is not a respected Prime Minister in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175150	My colleagues and colleagues, I approve of the break, but I invite you to discuss the subject after the break, which is the European Council's report. This has certainly not been discussed what you have now asked for breaks, so please take this opportunity to talk about serious topics. Thank you very much. It's a stop by 4:00. It's 3:46 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats to continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,01 HOURS]] There are replicas in turn, and first it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175152	Dear Prime Minister, on November 29th, some will celebrate the day of the Republic, the last, unfortunate state, and some will mark the death of the Croatian hero General Slobodan Praljko who took his own life in The Hague court to send us a strong message. I'm interested in your opinion of General Free Praljko, what do you think of his rank? And I'd like to know if you've done anything about this and promised you and your party colleague, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, that you will do something in international European institutions to learn and hear the truth about both the Homeland War and our prisoners in The Hague prison. Here, first of all, I mean General Petkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175153	Thank you. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175154	Dear Prime Ministers and others, today we have heard a lot of this rhetoric of diplomatic and jargon but my question is briefly this, does Croatia have an independent foreign policy? When it comes to Brexit, Malta, Ireland remains, what does Croatia think of the border to be established after Brexit, which will be the official language of the EU, what does Croatia have to look at Syria? Syria, now there will be a construction worth billions of dollars, what will be done there by Croatian companies and whether we are part of it or we will wait for a political solution, the solution, there are companies there, Croatia has actually oil fields there. We want to wait for that solution politically or we will act and we will involve our companies there, there are other issues, agricultural policy etc., how much we will lose with Brexit, these are some short policies, foreign policy mostly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175155	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175156	I want to know what we're doing here or what the Prime Minister is doing here if he's not answering questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175157	My colleague Glasnović, a colleague of Glasnović, spoke...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175158	.../Intruder Zekanovic: So I consider it.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175159	A colleague of Zekanovic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175160	.../Intruder Zekanovic: Oh, just a short.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175161	So, you've caused a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175162	.../Intruding Zekanovic: Will the prime minister answer the question, it is only short and clear, if he is not not going... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175163	You have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure during a question referred to by or by colleagues Glasnović, I thought you wanted to look back at his exposure. Please don't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175164	... [[Intruder Zekanovic, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175165	Would you like to answer to your colleague Glasnović? Here you go. ... Yes, yes, no, no, colleagues to Glasnović, yes. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175166	Dear Representative Glasnovic, your question was about several topics, topics, you mentioned Malta, Ireland, I suppose the island country, the English question as the official language, you know that Ireland as a member also has an English language with Gaels as an official language. Therefore, the United Kingdom’s exit will remain. Things are pretty simple here, it's not so complicated to understand. As far as the effects of the United Kingdom's exit to Croatia, according to all economic analyses that have been working at EU level, the impact on Croatia is the smallest of all, not only because of the shortness of our membership but because of the fact that here and the trade exchange are at that level that we will be able to get through this much easier than those countries that are close and that are trading a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175167	Thank you. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175168	Thank you. Dear Mr. President with his associates, you see, when we entered the EU six years ago, we were on average with a 61% standard development, we now fell to 59%. We are the 27th last country in the EU. You say you'll take the helm of EU governance. All small countries can formally so you take the helm, but you'll spin it where the Germans and the French say, that's quite clear. However, I would draw your attention, if you will already hold the presidency, then call on the institutions, the new EU leadership to help you deal with corruption in Croatia, as did our representative, Mislav Kolakusic, but make you a prime minister now, invite them to fight corruption. But I know it's hard for you, because you, half of your government, had to go down on suspicion of corruption. How do you do, try here, how do you think we don't see it in the priorities of the presidency, the fight against corruption in Croatia? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175169	You want an answer? Here you go. [[Intruding Plenkovic: Yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175170	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović. So here, following your performances for almost 4 years here, I really see that as a professor in the economy, you are a confident European, a man who really wants Croatia to make the most of its membership, to be better, to have our economy move forward, that economic growth is moving forward, to see through the European semester the policies that are in the interests of our citizens and the healthy growth of Croatia's economy. I am particularly impressed that you mention a representative in the European Parliament who would like to cumulate I do not know by which law and regulation, and the role of MPs, probably in the European Parliament and the role of the President of the State and the Prime Minister and at least a few ministers, all in those. I said the other day in Osijek, only Kinder's egg has that concept. This is what politicians and officials under our regulations cannot do, so as you propagate such candidates, I congratulate you, I wish you every good in your European and Croatian ambitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175171	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175172	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, to get back from irrational to rational, I hope we don't have to pull the strings and be worse than some non-EU countries. I gave you 100 pictures of our teachers from the classroom with a clear message before the break. I wonder when you'll finally sit down with them, meet their demands, and eventually when the kids will go to school? This is a catastrophic problem, parents are really already irritated by the whole situation, teachers want to work, children want to learn and what I see as a problem is that the government has no way to say hearing about those who do one of the most responsible jobs in the Republic. Once again I give great support to teachers, teachers, non-teaching staff, let them endure, and I invite you to sit down. and make arrangements when the school will begin. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175173	My colleagues and colleagues, I would really like to ask you to stick to the subject, so the subject is today a report from the European Council. This has nothing to do with the subject, we had current morning, free speech, you could speak, try, please, I appeal to you to stick to the subject. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175174	Well, I am sure that education is both a Croatian and a European topic, and we can also talk about it in the context of the European Council, and we can also responsibly say that the HDZ government, unlike your SDP, in which you were in, is very important that people know that you and these same teachers, teachers, continuously, consistently cut salaries, cut the odds, cut the Christmas cards, abolished the regresses, didn't give them the diaries and cut their salaries. So you're part of that government that worked against the material and financial status of teachers, teachers and teachers, and that's why you don't have the right to document and be hypocritical. We're the government, unlike you, who raised the salary 11.5% and on the table now offers all 23.1% in total and talks nonstop. And now Ministers Maric and Aladrovic are having talks, and you're holding a hand as a pay-cutting hypocrite. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175175	Thank you very much. Prime Minister and I would like to ask you to stick to the subject and withdraw. I would ask you to have a topic, of course you had to answer the Prime Minister that's logical, but please all together, this debate makes sense if we're going to talk about the European Council reports, if we're not going to talk about the European Council reports, then this whole thing is pointless. So, then every point we have, we can turn into a debate about something else. So I'd like to appeal once again, if you'd at least be creative and skilled enough so I can't object to you, but this way directly talk about something else that isn't a subject, then I'll have to take your word for it because it says so in the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bull, here you go. And what else do you have infraction with the Rules of Procedure? Well, I thought you pulled it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175176	Thank you very much. 238th, I would warn the prime minister that he is here to solve problems, not that as an analyst, he is giving an end to the situation in years ago. So we now have a problem that's huge, big as a house, Mont Everest, so we have a problem that people want to soak to go to school. The problem is that you don't solve it, I don't care if I have two kids at home, I want to know when they're going to school, Tell me when he's going to school. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175177	You get a warning from your colleague Maras. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175178	Tomorrow, he's going to school tomorrow?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175179	Comrade Maras, your colleague Maras will receive a reminder please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175180	Listen to what he's saying, he said he's going to school tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175181	Now I'm giving you a second warning, so I'm taking away your right to speak on this wheel. Let's go to debate now, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175182	Why, I'm gonna sit down, and before I sit down, did you give me a second warning, for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175183	Please sit down and don't go further into the debate because I'm going to have to use further instruments that I don't want to use.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175184	So do you want to use the team?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175185	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175186	Then don't take my word from me, I have a right to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175187	Now I'm taking it away from you, now I'm taking away your right to debate all over the wheel today. Please sit down. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175188	So wait, what's this now?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175189	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you mentioned Schengen and solving border problems, means yes, but we need to know that at this point we have a major problem in the border area. Here I was recently in Vrgorec, where people feel insecure about the crossing of illegal migrants, where they have suffered damages and materials and feel insecure, if anything the government has to worry about, then it's about the safety of our citizens and our property. I think we should use what the law allows, which means that the Croatian military is helping the police because our police are doing a good job but there are few in so many areas, I'm now talking about this area where I live, the Dalmatian Zagora, where the frequent entry of migrants into these areas is illegal. They're stealing cars, people are in serious damage to cars, people and children living in fear, so I'm asking you if you're going to use that possibility legally to help the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175190	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175191	Thank you very much. Representative Bulj, as you know, our policy of strengthening border control with us neighbouring non-EU countries is consistent. That's what I said in my speech. It is not only because we want to become part of the Schengen area which is logical and normal to be part of one of the two deeper integrations that follows us, but because of the quality of the 271 million euro that have strengthened both the human and technical Croatian police. According to our border guard laws, the police are competent and I want to thank 6,500 Croatian police officers who guard Croatia's border on a very demanding field, 24 hours a day, including in the part of the country where you are. And that is why I mentioned that the deal with Turkey from which migrants cross over to Greece is the most important issue that will halt movements in a direction that is technically called East-Mediterranean and Western-Balkan, and that does not mean implying what Mr Zekanovic was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175192	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175193	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation you mentioned exactly the notion of hybrid threats, but in the end what you say about reality in Croatia is actually a hybrid threat. The success that you are giving the EU to create a better life in Croatia trust me not to be seen. In the area where I come from, the Vukovar-Srijem County you can't see it, there it is, people moving out. The EU has not brought us even development but has taken the workforce, so these workers have all gone somewhere to live. And right here, what Antonia says, if you might have looked at these badges, I want my family and family to live close to not going to Germany. If the EU is such an EU policy that it will use our resources and that we will not have a balanced development, then actually your speech and the hybrid threat to the reality that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175194	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175195	Dear Representative Panenic. The theme of the hybrid threat in this context had nothing to do with what you're saying, it's something else. This is about misinformation, false information, influence on voters, built-up EU members from those who come outside the EU. This is the point in the European context of this topic and it is continuous, permanent, proven in several cases follow the secure European media and you know what I'm talking about. As far as the east of Slavonia is concerned, if any government has decided to take a step towards Slavonia, then this is exactly the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. In 15 days, we'll be in Vukovar, the 10th Council meeting, 10th, so we've already visited each of the Slavonian counties, more than 11.5 billion kunas contracted out of 18.5 billion planned. The project map is getting richer every time, and you sometimes I hope and participate so you know what I'm talking about, and that's what we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175196	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, you asked for a break as far as I could tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175197	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Independent Youth List club, we are looking for a break precisely for these statements now made by Prime Minister Plenkovic. It is clear to me and we understand that his visits are now in the role of a pre-election campaign for the presidential elections where he saves the rating and presidents of the current as candidates and HDZ. But what we really need to say, and that is even development where we want to be someone who is a real partner, not that every little person who has political ambition comes to bring some of the benefits that are visible only to those who bring it. Of these 11 billion unfortunately, we have something out there that's actually dead capital that doesn't bring us this development, which is so emphasized, and I think it's a serious moment to finally listen to people who live there what they want. Do they want 11 billion, or do they want to have really high quality jobs to stop at? Is it possible the prime minister is bringing in a solution for Djuru Djakovic now? Will Djuro Djakovic again become the leader who manages such a strong industry as the military industry, where should be the number one carrier? Will it resolve the issue of numerous companies that are now failing from the administrations set up by Prime Minister Plenkovic's government? When will we experience more in real life that these billions that are constantly mentioned become something that my neighbors feel is not going to turn out to be in any place when you look back at the far east of Croatia we're down to a third of the population? If schools are closed, if the parents are leaving, if the students are gone, if the postal offices are gone, if we are talking about the ever-returning of these areas, then I wonder what policy Prime Minister Plenkovic is going to present to us in Vukovar when he comes in the next days or she's just gonna be a cheerleader, you know what you're not on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175198	Thank you. In accordance with my Rules of Procedure, I'd like to grant a 10 minute break, and we'll proceed at 4:30. It's 4:00 P.M. We continue to work, please take your seats, first order of the fellow Dobrović, please. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:30 A.M.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175200	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, it's good to see, it's nice to see when the Prime Minister in a confident, sure, directed way is the position of the European Council's policy, or policy, but you mentioned the coordination of our institutions and I must note that there is so much inconsistency between our national policies that should be monitored by these European policies and what you're talking about. You've mentioned green policies several times, you've mentioned climate change, you've probably heard about a package of your own resources, so it's all connected and when we look at how money is spent operational,... The period until 2020, then we see it's a disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your minister failed to deal with it, so the system is run by the clients, are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175201	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175202	Thank you very much. Representative Dobrović, you know that I appreciate and respect you, I think that you are far the most qualified representative of MOST and you have been a very good member of the government and always listen carefully to what you have to say about environmental protection and the context of climate change given your expertise and your work so far. When it comes to the co-ordinated views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on climate change, in terms of environmental policy, they are because all the views that we have on the various Council formations, including the Council on which Minister Coric represents us, always go through all the filters of the Government, so there are no... As far as national level is concerned, Minister Coric, together with his co-workers in his ministry, is doing his best to improve waste management and better quality environmental protection and implementation of those international standards when it comes to climate policies in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175203	Thank you. Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175204	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, you have informed us here today as well as in the NSB about the priorities of the Croatian Presidency. You mentioned 4 large areas, within them a whole series of topics that have long been discussed at EU level. And you mentioned Brexit, then enlargement and the Western Balkans as well as the multiannual financial framework. It's all big. But what I am interested in, what will be the top priority of the number one Croatian government, so that priority during the presidency where you will focus and spend the most of your time? The priority of which Croatian citizens will benefit, the priority that Croatian citizens will follow and live with during the Croatian presidency. In a debate on one radio, your one associate said it would be demographics. From what you said today and said, it seems to be enlargement and the Western Balkans, so please tell me what priority number one is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175205	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175206	Dear Representative Klisovic, I am sure that you are like the man who has been following these topics for many years, well followed by what we have said so far on the table. The most important file without any dilemmas is the multiannual financial framework. If you ask me what priority number one is, it's number one because it's as national as it is for us to adopt the budget, so it's an even more important seven-year financial framework for the Union. Through it will reflect all political priorities, resources, operational programmes that will take place and improve Croatia thanks to the leverage called the funds coming from the European budget, we will certainly be... The user for at least 10 years, there's no dilemma at all, so that's number one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Number two in terms of visibility, there should be a meeting with us neighbouring countries of southeastern Europe in Croatia because it is the most politically important and most attractive and this third priority, Brexit, which has indeed come to the stage of extradition to us at the very end we will do but stress future relations, it is a real challenge. Those three things, I think it's a series of priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175207	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175208	Mr. President, my impression is that they understand you better outside than at home. And even as for the look on your face, you're a lot brighter when you talk about these external issues, when you talk about opposition, you have a stricter look on your face, it's only harder when you talk to those of you in HDZ who are distracting you but that's another thing now. So, you were asked by a colleague named Grbin today about the base, the coefficients, the supplement. Here's to understanding you better, I'll try to explain to you what you're wrong with. If the Croatian Athletic Team coach had done this, then Blanku Vlasic would have sent the disk and Sandra Perkovic to jump up and wonder, so they are both top athletes. If he acted like you, he would send Luka Modriæ to the basketball club and doncic's to the football club and say, "What's the problem?" Both of them are very good at playing ball and both of them are called Luka. That's where you're wrong. And here's to being on the subject, Mr. President, I have a question, is it going to happen before Brexit or is it going to end the teacher strike? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175209	Here you go, this was strong, you got away with it at the last minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175210	Dear Representative Bauk, you know that I've loved you since you tried basketball for us 25, 30 years ago, that was a long time ago, especially, Drobnjak was a coach, especially this Brač-Hvaric axis is very dear to me. As for this topic that you're talking about, so our efforts are maximum, it's true, it's full of respect and dignity towards the profession of teachers, teachers, teachers and education. If you have a coach who's allocated to, say, a sport called education, 18.3 billion kuna, then he understands what it is, how important it is and how much you should invest in that sport, that's what we do, there's no confusion, the offer that's on the table is good, quality, complete, and amounts to unlike you when you were coaching or at least when your coaches, which was minus, ours is in plus with this offer 23.1%, it's a winning coach, not a loser.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175211	Thank you. Comrade Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175212	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister with his associates. So the election of the President of the European Commission, the inclusion of demographics and democracy resolutions in the portfolio, the election of Vice-President Shuice at the head of the portfolio speaks of the unquestionable influence of the Croatian government and its President in the European Council. However, on this occasion, I would like to point out one other thing, the strong commitment of the Republic of Croatia to the European Council for Enlargement Policy to Southeast Europe is to approve, not only of the legitimate representatives of these countries, but also of the members of the Croatian people in those countries. So I can also say after the last congress of the European People's Party when the European People's Party adopted a resolution on Albania and Macedonia's enlargement policy, speaking with members of the Croatian minority in Macedonia, I was assured that it certainly contributes to their better position and I expect that the Croatian government will use this enlargement process to improve the position of Croatian minorities in those countries in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175213	Thank you, fellow Ljubic. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175214	Thank you very much, Counselor Ljubic. So unlike these constructions of the Bauk MPs on how anyone manages and on which subject, we are very good at both European and national topics and on regional and local topics and on topics of our neighbourhood and on the protection of the rights of Croats as a constituent people in BiH, let's say, in contrast to that which train et orbi clearly and loudly says that SDP is for Croats outside Croatia to have equal zero representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This should be repeated, that this is the legal original attitude that goes out of the belly, which we must remind ourselves. As for our position on the Croats in BiH and these countries, it is clearly articulated on the European Councils, but also through activities within our political family that we could have opportunity to discuss and testify last week in Zagreb, and you were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175215	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175216	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. You mentioned in your opening statement the strengthening of the Croatian border in order to enter Schengen, although you were already responding to some replicas before mine, I do not live in the border area, I live in the Primorje-Gorski County, last week a car accident occurred in my town in Novi Vinodolski where eight people were seriously injured and six of whom were migrants at the Adriatic magistrates in the town of Zlobin in the town of Bakru was arrested last week by 71 migrants directly near the settlement, causing serious damage to the people living in the area. And we're not a border area, we're about 100, 150 kilometers from the border, I don't understand how a group of so many people can walk 100 kilometers through a country so nobody can catch them before, and that's a security issue? Mostly I would like to ask you what the government is doing on this issue, or are you going to do something more intensively until this agreement with Turkey happens which should be dealt with as a solution? So what until then, and who's going to calm down the damage that's been caused by all this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175217	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175218	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic. I said intro, Croatia has 6,500 people to protect its border. We are, and as far as I understand it, the position was also the SDP that Croatia does not lift barbed wires and lift fences. Is it true? It is. If that is the attitude then you can understand if Croatia, which has 1350km of borders with its neighbouring countries, 1350 with Serbia, BiH, Montenegro together. There are natural borders, the Danube River, Sava, there is a situation easier, where mountainous or forest areas that are difficult to control are such examples that once they enter the territory of a member of the Union of Greece through territory, whether it is northern Macedonia, Serbia, BiH, Albania, Montenegro, all these migrants are channeled towards Croatia. It's the fastest and shortest way without barbed wire towards Europe. This is why it happens, however, and then the police will react over and over again, and will react in the future. It's a lot less of that intensity than it would be if there weren't police at the border.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175219	Thank you. Comrade Schibol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175220	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Plenkovicu, Slovenia has submitted a request to the European Court in which it claims that Croatia is violating European law because it has not fully implemented the arbitration decision. I am interested in what you will do if the European Court of Justice rules that Croatia really violates European law, means will you respect the decision of the European Court of Justice or will you still use certain maneuvers to avoid that decision? Otherwise, all EU Member States do not respect every decision of the European Court of Justice if it is not in the national interest. So we know, for example. as Hungary acted in a dispute with Hernadi, did Hungary extradite Hernadi to Croatia or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175221	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175222	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As far as this case is concerned, where Slovenia sued Croatia before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, you followed the Croatian signs, Croatian submissions, the performance of our legal representative, which seemed to me in mid-July. At this point, we are waiting for the decision of the European Court itself. Our position is very clear and consistent, and that is that this issue is not in the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice in its own measure. The issue of arbitration, the issue of regulating the border between two members of the Union or any other two countries, is a question governed by international law, not European law, but international law. It cannot be a European right to substitute for international law. At this point, I will not, nor can I, nor is it wise to work as Prime Minister to reconsider what the European Court will say. We told ourselves, let's wait for that decision to happen and then we'll take a stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175223	And the last replica of my colleague, Sagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175224	Thank you. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, the Republic of Croatia is certainly facing major challenges related to the next financial perspective. In particular, the planned reduction of resources for the common agricultural policy, both in the first step of direct payments and in the second pillar of rural development. Although the Republic of Croatia is calling for its right to a 10-year increase in actually funds for direct payments. On the other hand, in front of the Republic of Croatia, of course, as well as the rest of the countries, environmental and climate objectives are being set and, in this respect, direct payments in the future will be related to the achievement and fulfilment of these environmental and climate protection requirements. The minister announced that in the event of a reduction in direct payments, the state would perform there. However, what is now the consequences of the Republic of Croatia in this, let us say to the negotiations on the common agricultural policy and whether it will really be later direct payments or what we call incentives to fall on the burden of the budget, which then puts financial sustainability at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175225	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175226	Thank you very much. Talks on the level of direct payments were held with representatives here in a few days of the already former European Commission, Commissioner Hogan, on a number of occasions when he came to Zagreb and in the contacts of our ministers who went to Brussels and discussed what Croatia expects. You know that the whole meaning of the common agricultural policy was such that from membership to around 2022, '23. increases the amount of direct payments coming from the European budget and the amount from the national budget is reduced. And that's the trend that matters. Croatia as a new member wants in this as we call it on the contracts of a founded policy or so on. Another traditional policy with cohesion to keep the next financial framework a favourable financial position for the Croatian village, Croatian agriculture because this is what we need, for example, that the French peasants have had in the last 65 years, we need at least 15 to 20 years. And that's what you're working hard and hard on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175227	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the debate. The first is at the work of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175228	Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister, foreign and European affairs ministers with associates, good evening, we have yet another report from the European Council, Comrade Bulj, come on a little bit, calm down and there will be an opportunity for discussion. Can you do that? Thank you very much. It has been concluded that, just today, we have this report when the European Parliament confirmed the new Commission, which concluded the formation of all European institutions, never the more complex composition of the majority in the European Parliament. What we all hope for, in any case, is that these European institutions and this composition will make an additional effort to hear voices and national parliaments, so that there is a further approximation of the titles and of the European Parliament and by approaching our citizens. There are four topics on the agenda today, the first multi-annual financial framework, the second one is the institutional framework, climate change and there are various enlargements of Brexit, Turkey and so on. Let's start with the multiannual financial framework, the Finnish presidency sought to reach a compromise and balance around three thematic blocs. The first is the total amount of the budget, the second is the volumes of the main policies and the third is conditionality. The Finnish Presidency's goal was to meet the funding needs between traditional policies and new challenges. Under these new challenges, energy transition, climate change and migration are being discussed today in Brussels and across the Union. That we all understand what and what money it is, which is on the table, so we are talking about 1% of those who want to in some way to reduce the Union's spending and budget 1% of the total GDP of the Member States, those others who are pushing for that budget to be slightly larger 1.11 and more than that. In order to compete today, your average of Member States and their national budgets is 45% compared to GDP. So, in 2018, when you took all national budgets from national social products somewhere it was 45% most often in the last 10 years, these percentages range from 40 to 50%. So we're talking about 1%, up to 1.11%. I'd like to say when we're here on the so-called. The VFO on the subject of the financial framework therefore does not, I do not have a dilemma that cohesion funds, other than agricultural policy, are, in fact, the best interests of all EU Member States. It would be great if we knew and had a transparent number which is, and I am sure of the positive effect of cohesion funds and consumption in Member States such as Croatia which are therefore net recipients. What is the effect of these cohesion funds on Europe's most developed economies? So there's no dilemma at all if it were positive, it would be nice to know what it is. Today, when most of the developed EU members are somewhere above the recession 0.51% of economic growth would actually be interesting to have and at least assess, I believe that they can be reached. In fact, there is no dilemma that economies, entrepreneurs therefore large, small, medium-sized Member States have both income and there is a positive impact of cohesion policy and cohesion resources in all other Member States. Secondly, what I mean is, when we are still on the financial framework, there is an increasingly frequent debate in Brussels on the so-called "So-called". EU own resources. The question is, where will it come from? Most of the time, unfortunately, I personally disagree with that, and that is that you are increasingly talking about taxing financial transactions. Why do I think it's not good for countries like ours, because in some ways this extra taxation of financial transactions is certainly not going to make life easier for us, help our economy. So it is certain that, in a way, in the long run, such a one, such a pan-European tax that will concern financial institutions, of course, will be transferred to consumers and users, and at the end of the day logically less will damage those who are much more competitive, more economically developed. I think it would be much better to think about how to introduce taxes on digital giants, given that in particularly small Member States like us, Croatia is almost impossible to tax the largest digital corporations in the world operating across the EU. So I think it would be much more reasonable to think in that direction rather than financial tax transactions. The second is therefore the next institutional framework, for the next 5 years, the Prime Minister has already mentioned, I will once again emphasise 6 of the main areas of the new commission, the work of the new commission. The first is development, research, innovation, second climate, third digitisation, fourth is migration, fifth is a social and competitive Europe and the sixth is a strong Europe in the world. A strong Europe in the world. I am very pleased that the new president of the committee von der Leyen has particularly highlighted the issue of digitisation except so-called "digitization". a green plan for Europe. In fact, this issue of digitisation is now pervading not only the entire European economy but our whole life. It is evident today that the EU has many, many challenges when it comes to further digitisation. Robotisation and artificial intelligence are often not really seriously discussed and this raises the issue of the first regulation that has been delayed significantly. Secondly, it raises questions of course only about the economic potential or competitiveness of EU Member States. We're kind of behind in North America, especially the United States. And the third impact of this digitisation is particularly on medium and small entrepreneurs who are and will always remain the backbone of each economy, both the EU and every economy of the Member State. We support the Prime Minister in particular when it comes to convergence and demographic revitalisation and debates on this issue, and not only because we are discussing population ageing but first of all we need to discuss at European level the issue of internal, therefore internal migration. The single market is beautifully imagined, logically, is the result of the single market and the single labour market for a long time. In such a single labour market, it is logical that the most competitive and the greatest, the most powerful have become extremely attractive to not only young Croats but also to many others, especially from the east and southeast of the EU, and I think that the common EU should be opposed. And regardless of who is currently getting here, it loses on a long-term basis, in a way, this has the impact of instability and of the Member States, and if this has an impact on, of course, the impact on stability and the economic and social and political Member States themselves. The third are climate change, so we are all more or less aware that these climate change exists. We do not necessarily agree on the causes of these climate change, but they are here clearly, the EU and I agree, should be and may be a global leader when it comes to climate change, but what I personally think should not be at the expense of our own competitiveness and our own economy. The EU today has as the single largest market in the globe if it wants enough power and power to bring first and foremost the largest polluters such as China to order. So it's impossible to fight only from one small continent or subcontinent with global climate change and to the harm of its own economy. And at the end of the fourth, different topics are Brexit, Turkey, enlargement. The decision was therefore taken until 31.1.2020 by the UK member of the EU. A week before the decision was taken for the first time, the British Parliament gave support to so-called. The law of withdrawal. It all came down in the end, i.e. the key problem left to solve, which I hope is now resolved, and that's the question of Northern Ireland, it's quite logical, so there was a problem behind the Union on the one hand, Northern Ireland and, on the other hand, the issue remained problematic for the UK. It has been resolved to apply European and British customs regulations for the next 4 years, so once in the approach time. Once these 4 years have elapsed, then the Northern Ireland Assembly has the right to make a decision depending on which majority, whether the qualified majority or half majority to 4 or even 8 years to extend the same regime. As this whole story ends in the end, whether the Brexit saga is over, we'll know, of course, after the outcome of the British elections that are in a few weeks. When it comes to Turkey, Turkey is an ally within the NATO alliance, a strategic partner, a potential member, so it is officially still on the EU membership candidate list. However, if we call Turkey a partner, then we will agree that partners cannot make voluntary actions are those in Cyprus and around Cyprus, are those in Syria or anywhere else, then if you are with a partner, it implies that you co-ordinate actions and various activities with it. It also cannot include, therefore, this partnership cannot include Mr. Erdogan and Vukic drawing maps of railways, railways, highways, anything, so in general infrastructure across neighbouring BiH, this partnership cannot function that way. And the last topic is enlargement, I think it is more or less I think we will agree that it is a shameful decision, that accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania have not been opened, especially with Northern Macedonia because 18 years ago in the same country, Macedonians and Albanians have been at war, today trying to co-operate with the same institutions in Macedonia to join the NATO alliance and join the EU. So not to recognize it actually shows one complete, some politicians not all, all three countries have rejected it, but above all France, the misunderstandings here. Or it's just a job, for example. in the case of France on local elections where Macron has a problem with Le Pen. But it simply seems very difficult for me to be a leader in both the EU and France and southern France. In some ways, I think politicians will have to decide what they want and at which level they want to manage and lead. This more when we talk about Northern Macedonia and Albania remains what I think we need to stress every one like the Union and guaranteed in the Western Balkans on a European perspective, if we agree on an individual approach to each of these countries, then it would be nothing more normal than to start negotiations with both Northern Macedonia and Albania because these negotiations will take 7, 8, 10 and more years, and the message that the first thing to do is to solve what the future EU will look like and what it will look like in the future of the EU much faster than those 5, 7, 8, 10 or more years will take all these negotiations. The EU's credibility is international, so we don't even talk. So it's pretty hard to have global credibility, and we're not able to solve the issue in BiH. So to discuss with the Chinese about Africa and African countries and compete there economically and in any other way geopolitically, and not to be able to solve the problem and relations in BiH for the benefit of all three peoples in particular, given that we are at least numerous there and given the demographic trends of the past 20 and more years then, of course, we are particularly concerned here in the Croatian Parliament. So, if the EU wants to restore credibility, then together with us, all together, it will have to start to find solutions not only for BiH, but for many of the events that are happening today throughout this so-called. Western Balkan space, regardless of being surrounded by Member States and NATO alliances and the EU. I sincerely hope that across the EU there is awareness, as far as I am able as the head of the Committee on European Affairs when I travel to explain it, these are not only national Croatian interests, these are not only the interests of Member States such as Hungary, Slovenia and neighbouring countries, what is happening in this area that we are talking about, and in particular, the issue of the whole EU, and I hope that, in the spring of next year, at this conference on the Western Balkans and the EU, we will find a real solution and start implementing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175229	We are going to a second debate, the club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists and is first a colleague of Bulj, after him a colleague of Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175230	Thank you very much. Here's when we talk about this report, and I'm sorry it's not the prime minister here right now, so I guess he's somewhere in the assembly, and here's the minister and his associates. I believe that when we talk about this report, and otherwise about the EU, our prime minister is like a little kitten when it comes to chicken, to anyone who is critical of the EU. Even so when we talk about Croatia critically within Croatia, it is so boned, but it is really boned like a little kitten on a chicken when anything negative is mentioned in the context of European institutions. I don't think it's a good thing that we should look out of the real light, the light of life, the light of that area, how to live, not from the light of Brussels or from the light of this constituency. I just spoke and mentioned the problem of the migrant crisis which has a major impact on the Republic of Croatia and we must not look at it with our eyes closed. Currently in the area here is where I come from in the Dalmatian mountains, here is the Vrgorak area of great damage to people from the transition from BiH to illegal migrants. People feel, respected ministers and prime ministers feel insecure. We have police who do their job, but obviously insufficient number of police officers because it's not good for people in that area like Vrgorački end, Cetinski end all the way to the Neretva valley, so here towards Gorski Kotar and Lica, to feel insecure. If someone steals your car in the evening at 2:00 from the garage and the police call you at 2:00 a.m., then you, that car was found somewhere inverted, it's a very insecure area. For this reason, I would once again invite the prime minister and you respected ministers to see the legal possibility. In 2016, it was passed legally that the military could be helped, so we legally passed the law in this assembly in 2016, where the military could help the police. Therefore, nothing is illegal, and that is our constitutional obligation, the Prime Minister, and there is nothing to cost him. As far as I'm concerned, here's the prime minister's statement of enlargement, I will once again say, as far as enlargement is concerned, I must again address here that in 2016, the government's foreign minister has to call on the Committee of Ministers for Monitoring the implementation of Serbian criteria in Chapters 23 and 24 on Serbia's accession to the EU annually. Only once during Oreskovic's government, then Kovač was called in, but neither Stier nor you nor Stier nor Pejcinović Buric, nor you, you violate that valid decision. You never called on that committee to follow Serbia. At the same time, that, of course, compensation for the aggression committed by the Republic of Croatia and the missing, at the same time Vukic, I do not blame him for mocking us, opens a record to a criminal in Serbia who slaughtered in Vukovar, of course he is a Chetnik, although the penitent wants to be, but he is a Chetnik Vukic, but you are in the same political family. However, you have the law, you have the commission, you cannot be above the law because Serbia is monitored on 23rd and 24th. A chapter on approach. Instead of following this to protect Croatia, you are opening Serbia's chapters. You open chapters to a man who mocks the Republic of Croatia who was kneeling in front of Vukic at Pantovčak and in Mark's square and agreed that no great Serb aggression should be mentioned. So please be nice, so we can't let that happen to one of the brushes who's trying to be a penitent, Alexander Wolf. He is in your political family, but you ministers should resign for this reason, for five months you have not called a single session, neither before the commission nor the Stier, nor Pejcinovic Buric, the only one in the government of Tihomir Oreskovic was adopted. I'm sorry that he's not the minister here, that he's not the prime minister, that we can talk about this one more time. However, I would only say here before my colleague Dobrović, I would agree, these are questions meaning climate issues of environmentalism, I can only say that the good prime minister said that Slaven Dobrović is, I would not agree that he is the best parliamentary representative of the Most High but the best parliamentary representative in the Parliament. And if Minister Djoric had listened to him and the government listened to him and the prime minister today would have had waste management as it should be, waste management would have been composing and sorting and separation without having a waste management centre pushing on Lečevica, would not have transported 120km from Vrgorec to Sinj waste, would not have had a problem of waste in Brac, would not have closed in mind 27 random, insanely, 27 dumps to praise European officials, thereby jeopardising people living in that area and collecting waste and essentially damaging our climate, i.e. our environment. As for the meaning of the waste itself, a colleague of Dobrović will speak more about it, and I repeat again, I regret that these words when he praised the best parliamentary representative Slaven Dobovic in this assembly, what he did not listen to and what he did not do and did not listen to Ćorić who made a mess that respects absolutely nothing. I would say once again when we talk about EU equality, it comes to me from the field, I wonder how many European funds we have withdrawn, Croatia is at the bottom, at the bottom of the money withdrawn. When it comes to cohesion funds, how much we pulled it back, what, stop, what the Prime Minister is talking about. He's saying we have cohesion funds, balancing, okay, everything. But Croatia is at the bottom of withdrawing funds from the EU and that is a fact. That's a fact. And when he talks about the EU's presidency, here's the president of the parliament who didn't even know who was chaired by the EU last year, which state. When asked, he doesn't know, he doesn't know, he doesn't know, it's so important. It's so important for our citizens' lives here. It's so important. Our people are interested in what's going on with the transport infrastructure so they can say my Dalmatian Zagora dates on the Ravca-Drvenik highway, the survival of the people in the area. What about farmers since 2020? We'll be able to sell land. Foreigners will be able to buy. In Hungary, Croats can't buy such things, and they're interested. Which is why we have not declared an exclusive economic belt, which is why in a foreign trade chain that is the same in Croatia 3, 5x has a higher salary for cashiers than in Croatia. Which is why teleoperators have 100% higher profits in the Republic of Croatia and are breaking all the laws and is suitable for teleoperators who have huge margins and do not have that in Germany where they come from either. Why? Because the dependent political elites on these teleopers are on these institutions, which is why today 2/3 of Croatia is empty. That's why they're 2/3 of Croatia. Because Croatia is not an equal country in the EU. It's not even. No cashier, no farmer, no worker, no fisherman because we don't have the strength and the courage to fight for our man. Now, Mr. Dobrović will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175231	Thank you very much. Now the respected representative Dobrović will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175232	Thank you very much, Vice President. I warmly welcome, the Prime Minister is gone, but I welcome him anyway and his team and, of course, all his colleagues and colleagues. A little while ago, we didn't quite understand when I made an observation in the replica that I didn't see good coordination between our internal, domestic and European policies because the Prime Minister said that there was a high coordination of all the bodies that therefore appear in the European Commission, of course that makes sense. I would much prefer that there is a very strong coordination and coherence of internal policy, so concrete in Croatia and those for which we build together in Brussels. So in terms of environmental policy, green policy, climate change, we see that these are unforgivable topics and we need to know that this is all very expensive. But how serious we are in this is best to look at how we behave in terms of the use of current funds, so the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, '13/'20. and in '14/'20, respectively. Half a billion kuna is available to improve the waste management system that we all know we've all assumed a very serious 50% recycling obligation is one of them by 2020. For three and a half years, we have been able to spend these money in accordance with the measures we have taken in the plan of managing the waste of the Republic of Croatia in January 2017. But other than recycling yards, it's a public call that opened in March 2017, so for the former minister, we have nothing left. So the euro cent is not spent on that infrastructure that can only help cities and municipalities move towards meeting these objectives. That's what I'm talking about and such knowledge, that fact is disastrous. So the money for the wrong projects is being spent, so big centres like the two that we already know are being negotiated, here we can do an analysis of who is interested, so they move to Croatia very little or minimal in terms of meeting the goals. And instead of building sorters, composts, reuse centers, I've said it a lot here and I don't want to be boring. It's not there, I don't know why it's not there. So the only argument that makes sense to me is that this system is not run by a minister or he is not interested or directed but is one clientelistic elite, a string in which various people participate, who like to spend those half a billion kunas on something else. And yet the minister is not inactive, so he's making some of his policies and he's actually making crazy policies of the type of closure dump. What reason is there in the decision to close the dump when you haven't offered the city and the municipality an alternative, let's explain it to me, is it possible to explain it, it's not possible and it's connected to what we're talking about today because green politics, here the Finns are about it, I remember because as a minister I talked to an ambassador then, since then, since then, so even before 2 years ago. They started to create plans, they insisted on a new package of legislative own resources, so using waste as their own resource, it can't be without going in that direction, and we didn't even go because we didn't spend the eurocent, so in what we still have little time, so we don't move, we don't strengthen in that direction, and it's actually a disaster, so I don't know how to describe the policy in the fund that's responsible for it, the Environmental Protection Fund, so clientelism is a weak word for, for that, it's something at the chickening level, I, I don't know, it's not a very nice word from this place, but what word exists for, for there, for that practice and for that result to buy vessels, millions of pieces of vessels for a separate collection, and that they don't, I don't know, it't really, is a nice word from the sorting and composting, it't go to buy this kind of money for our car, and we's going to the way that we're going to buy our cars. So I don't know what can be expected, how we're going to distribute it in terms of green policies when we're at it, when we don't understand basics. We are adopting a regulation, the Government has adopted a regulation that prescribes that the category of household in one service area can only have one unique price that does not depend at all on the size, on volume, on the number of persons, on the surface, so this is an absurd provision for which here tomorrow there will be discussions on the issue of constitutionality on the environment, because it really engulfs some other guaranteed rights because these are the units of local self-government that the system must organise in a way that it is effective and they are responsible for the result, they will pay the penalty because they will certainly pay for the prime minister, so that minister will lower the cost of pensionisation to the units of local self-government according to their statistics. But, I don't know, we're acting crazy, so based on these regulations, it's really possible that certain cities and municipalities get rid of it and say, so this is, you've, you've brought us into an absurd situation, we're in a country of absurdity about this particular waste management policy, which is a very important part of climate policies and green policies, because recycling reduces energy consumption and thus reduces emissions, so it's all connected and I pray you don't understand these topics as some kind of absurd and unproven, here are the facts very clear and requires responsible behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175233	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175234	Dear colleagues, the Council of Europe's report, were some key questions raised here, we did not get any concrete answer to these questions, the template answers of course that are formulated in diplomatic language, etc. a drop in peak diplomatic language that... It doesn't mean anything. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have heard the words as enlargement, digitisation, so we are now chairing soon in this Council of Europe, the EU, and how we can do it, what standards we set ourselves here in this country when it comes to order and security 26 of, I think, 130, 113 countries, 35th index of rule of law, 52nd in the implementation of the rules of the young gentleman who spoke here about the ecologicality of this policy, 52nd by implementation. Why does it work, why does it work in Germany, not in the Republic of Croatia? One question, anthropologically, and the other is humane. Here's an example, 5 countries we enforce laws, we talk about security, these words digitization, security, 5% land books in the Republic of Croatia are properly recorded, 5% books, these are the consequences of what? I'm talking immigration, the latest data shows that 16,000 new workers are here for... 16000 from the Philippines to Syria, that you have Syrian taxi drivers here for the Uber,... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] immigration has increased 10%. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Demography, we heard from someone, the question of EU demographics that new 200 kindergartens were built based on EU competitions, is that, is that correct data? What is further, the question of whether the Europeans, this question is not asked, will the EU live as a financial union, some kind of republic with independent states? Expansion, what kind of expansion? Italy, safety 132% is a public debt this only Italy, we are talking about the expansion of Northern Macedonia etc. Energy efficiency, what about the Paris Climate Treaty, where is the Republic of Croatia, how we do it, and how we translate, how we're going to implement, we're going to do, we're a country less than the suburbs of New York, how are we going to do this, this one to that green energy? But I have a disappointment for you, the world isn't going in that direction, it's going in a completely different direction because for countries like China, America where you have 300 million inhabitants in America, you'll never cross from the hydrocarbons of these... etc. Oil, Nan, is it, it's inexhaustible in our, maybe, maybe for 1,000, for 500 years. You'll never see it, and you'll never see how much it takes for most of India, China, and America, it's just fairy tales, it's totally going in the other direction, it's going in the other direction. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU is financing coal, open coals down in Greece so as not to lose jobs. Also, renewable energy has to be reliable and cheap, and you don't have it with wind or sun, plates last for 25 years, then go down to Africa because it's also a waste. Who's talking about nuclear energy, nobody, but what's gonna happen? And we have one comprehensive energy strategy at all, I'm not sure about that. Here, next, let's move on, the world more today is more of an economic problem, is the new crisis around the corner we're ready for this global crisis. The world is more in charge today than before, than before the financial crisis. I asked Mr. Plenkovic about foreign policy, independent foreign policy, who is now reading these messages, is everything okay, foreign policy.../incomprehensible/... I ask for the Middle East, drills all over the Middle East. Syria there by some, not my data, but this World Bank that's where the reconstruction is going to cost $285 billion, I'm asking again where we are? If we still have these oil fields out there, we've got it safe. We'll be waiting for political solutions for some things, that's what I said before. Cyprus, Cyprus has been waiting for a political solution since 1984, there is still a trade war between China and America, where we are, that should be known by the Croatian tax collector. Now that's where the Peljek Bridge.../incomprehensible... When we talk about security, Croatia is not Liechtenstein, we are surrounded by Balkan krkans even though we are not in the Balkans. Serbia's Annex D returns not only to archives but war damages and returns billions of dollars from the former state that belongs to all states, but to fight for it, and we pay 10,000 pensions in Serbia. I don't understand that at all. Now the question for ours, I don't think they're thinking about it.../incomprehensible/... coming up with a monitoring organisation for financial transactions related to EU funds. We're ready for that, because I know we've been since '91. invest 100 billion kuna in agriculture, how that money is spent. I mean, it's a rhetorical question, some planted two plums, pulled the money, but it's going back to the home side. Here's to implementing regulations 52 of the 113 countries, which means this is still the land of the Prince of Trpislava. We have extraordinary laws, but implementation in the end is not what it should be at tactical level. And in the end, I would say this, we selectively implement all these EU laws and standards proposed by the EU, it can be easily proven when it comes to the return of violently seized property. It goes back to 5% of the land books properly recorded. We had two pilots of the project Pozega and this Zadar, it's not over yet, it's all digitized but not solved property-legal relations. That is why we still suffer from post-Communist sclerosis and if we ever look at the staff of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the staff, I have a list of some former co-workers of this secret service who would never pass security service in any other country and work at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. That's scandalous to me, and their file is in Belgrade, too. Let them visit us every day, not every day, but it is unimaginable in other countries that have implemented these laws, for example. Poland has removed all diplomats who have graduated from the Diplomatic School in Moscow, and with us all heads have returned and the gray eminence of Croatian diplomacy is Mr. Budo Lončar, the head of the underwater battle from Ugljan, who threw people into the sea with a camera around his neck. That's scandalous, that's a moral question, there's no mention of morality and ethics, and that's where we are, until we solve these fundamental issues, people are looking for, not these patterns of answers because people are looking outside right now, but they're looking for concrete answers to these questions. And so long as we don't get it, and until we're ready for these challenges that are coming, I hope we have mechanisms, mechanisms that will get involved if there's a financial crisis, we can't prevent it, nor can the EU. Until then, we must have these examples, these mechanisms, they must be in place. Until then, this remains the phantom stories of the birdies, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175235	Thank you very much. The next Club is the representative of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Josko Klisovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175236	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome the Prime Minister, the foreign minister and the associates who are abandoning us but will return. In his speech today, the Prime Minister said that today the European Commission is rightly confirmed. The SDP's representatives in the European Parliament voted in favour of the commission, which does not automatically mean that the same thing would have been done to vote individually on each commissioner or member of the commission. The Commission has been confirmed and the SDP voted for it for reasons of obvious responsibility that we feel that as soon as the commission begins to work, given that its start of work was not quite as smooth. There have been many problems, from Commissioners who have been rejected in the European Parliament to the fact that the President of the European Commission has not been one of the candidates of the main political groups within the EU or the European Parliament, which has given a strong blow and the system of pitted candidates. I am interested, of course, in whether this system will survive, what our Government thinks of it, because it was one system where all citizens of Europe could follow the debate of the main, main political groups in the European Parliament and in this way feel Europeans, thus developing European identity and European unity and somehow creating one climate and atmosphere to one day and this questionable candidate, or president of the Commission, be elected by the citizens of Europe themselves. It would certainly be an additional unity, a contribution to Europe's unity. I say the SDP's MPs voted for the commission as a whole, but that doesn't mean we're satisfied with those answers offered by our Commissioner, Mrs Shuica, and these answers concern primarily the origin of her property, as well as her political work in the European Parliament so far. We are primarily referring to its positions on the Polish report when the European Parliament condemned non-democratic practices in Poland, when it condemned a breach of democratic values in Poland, when it condemned a violation of the rule of law in Poland. The same thing is also the report for Hungary where similar or similar things were also the subject of a European Parliament's condemnation, which unfortunately our current Commissioner did not vote for. We can also mention reports of gender equality for which she did not vote in the European Parliament, a report that required equal pay for women and men, a report that fought against stereotypes against women, and on the grounds that they wanted to push abortions and reproductive rights, which is not really true. The report on Poland, the report on Hungary as well as the report on gender equality actually contains the foundation of democratic values for which it will be just as Commissioner for Democracy and Democracy. So she didn't come from the best positions in her new job. But we supported the Commission as a whole because we think we should start work, for a month has already passed since they were not working. The second issue that is important is the multiannual financial framework. The Prime Minister said that it would be one of the main if not the first one, means the first priority of our presidency, and it really has legitimate reasons if it is. There is talk about the level of the budget, the SDP thinks it should rise, and I understand that the government also supports raising the European budget, which is good. We also need to talk about the so-called. EU own resources to fill such a budget. It was interesting to listen to representatives of the HDZ club today in a debate that said he was not very happy and did not support the tax on financial transactions as a form of filling the European budget through his own resources. As I understand in this report that the prime minister has submitted to us, it says that the prime minister has shown openness to this proposal, so I can see that there has been a discrepancy between the HDZ Club and the Prime Minister and the Government. In any case, the SDP is open to discussing the increase in EU own resources and through an increase in the tax on financial transactions as well as through the tax on unrecycled plastic waste, as well as digital services and digital giants, etc. Therefore, these are important issues that we need to discuss, and we would do well to have a united attitude in the country as well. When we talk about European funds or about funds that are also important for our state budget and financing public needs, when we had a budget debate, I am the prime minister of why we are the last to be paid off in the EU. So, the prime minister is very often commended that we are good at negotiating funds with the EU about funds, but what matters most is that we are the last in the EU at paid-offs. Why is that? And Mrs Miletic here in the Parliament confirmed that we were last, the prime minister did not hear that statement at the time, but I think he was informed about it. And I am still wondering why is Croatia the last of all EU member states to be paid for? What's the reason for that? Because these are the only funds and the only criteria by which people can track our success in withdrawing money from European funds because that is the money that is paid for concrete projects, that money spent on building bridges, roads, waste dumps or for science, education, environmental protection and other purposes for which it is intended. So, Croatia is not the last one, it is the last one to be paid off by EU funds, which is actually one big disaster. Another topic discussed on the European Council is enlargement. I think we have common ground here that this was a big mistake that did not allow North Macedonia and Albania to open negotiations, regardless of how it will justify it, I do not think they are justified reasons and that the EU has significantly violated its credibility there. She violated it because everything she asked Northern Macedonia and Albania to get, they delivered, they are all the conditions they were set to meet, and on the other hand, the EU has proved unprepared to make a decision to open negotiations from the two countries. This is a well-infringed EU credibility, and this must be done. However, the French argument cannot be ignored either, so the argument that the whole enlargement process should be done a little bit and that the EU itself must be consolidated before opening its doors to the new members. The French are not lonely in such an argument and in such an attitude. Many politicians in this chain of decision-making in the early European countries share these French views, even though their countries may also support opening negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. Therefore, the French proposals must nevertheless become part of our debate, regardless of what we can agree on, that a good part of them has already been absorbed through the current framework of the negotiating, negotiating process and reversibility and the possibility of stopping at any time and the need to strictly respect all the conditions that are set out in the negotiations for candidate countries. We already have all of this in the pre-accession process, but we cannot simply reject France and other members seeking to review the enlargement process because it will not be a way out of this situation. We'll just be afraid to add to the irritation in those countries that will continue to block the whole process. What seems to us in the SDP is that the next European Council should be used to decide on opening negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. If there is no agreement on determining the start date of the negotiations well, but the decision to open negotiations itself is already a political signal that is very important. In the meantime, the European Commission can really be in charge of making a proposal for a new methodology based on these French proposals, and this can be discussed all together until the Zagreb Summit. It would be very nice to use the Zagreb Summit for two important decisions. One would be about the new methodology and revision of the enlargement process and the other on the dates of the start of negotiations with these two countries. So the first signal could be sent to the next council in December and then to open negotiations, so a decision would be taken to open negotiations and then, during the Zagreb summit, to make a decision on the start of negotiations, i.e. a new enlargement methodology. Some EU countries, as far as I am aware, have a similar or similar position to that which we have somehow developed in the SDP, so I hope that the Croatian government will also understand the scale of this position and support what we have said here on behalf of the SDP club. Another question I'd like to open is the Schengen issue. So Croatia is ready for Schengen. It has met all technical requirements, the European Commission has confirmed this, many Croatian governments have worked on it and should thank them all as well as all those who have participated in all technical conditions at a professional level. But since we are faced with the de facto political blockade of Slovenia which will benefit I do not know what all excuses and through technical argument try to convince the European public and the European and the Council of Ministers that Croatia has not met all the conditions, I am interested in how the government will now set itself up towards Slovenia and also in the context of this new report on the work of their intelligence service. Do we have any ideas how we will pacifise Slovenia and how we will get the green light from Slovenia to get Croatia into Schengen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175237	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the independent youth list on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175238	Thank you very much. Speaking of the report itself, when we look at all of the nine pages, we have received something through clarifications, so in a meeting that took place over 2 days we expect that, in some ways, we see this progress. All together, the whole document at all the points in which it was spoken shows that there has been a significant stalemate, a stalemate, and that creates uncertainty and practically all decisions are transferred to some future period. If we look at the presidency of members who have been present as Finland for a long time, they have failed to find an agreement suddenly to move to the presidency of the Republic of Croatia, a terrible responsibility. A terrible responsibility where somehow everyone expects to find the key culprit for maybe all those agreements that will be compromiseable and that will be at the expense of anyone. So here it is in some way seeing what I've looked at. From Brexit, it is waiting for the UK elections to take place, that they make that final decision, that they have political consent. And then after that, OK, you've solved it, it's a clean situation, you've made some political withdrawal that the European Commission can say the same thing, which is a proposal that matches that of the Republic of Croatia during your presidency, and you should carry out key negotiations, which I think is one big challenge, a diplomatic challenge if we look at for years that the diplomatic challenge of the EU and the many countries that chaired it, and now we should once again shift it to all our capacities where we have to say as a smaller state that we can't deal with the most difficult challenges. So this is from the very part that applied to Brexit clearly. The multiannual financial framework, of course, that speaking of it in 2021, is very close. Bringing consensus that should harmonize various interests is something that is the key that could even format a framework to know the limits. And here I can welcome the position that we have taken that it is that cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy are not touched because we are aware that as a newer member, these are policies that give us the opportunity to bring our development into line with members who have been in the EU for a long time and actually try to reach them through these policies, any reduction of rights will slow us down that path. And this situation that we currently have in the Republic of Croatia actually extend in some way this agony that requires rapid, decisive measures, financial strong measures, politically strong measures where the source of financial resources in the good part should be the EU. In the end, it should be painted through these policies right now. However, it is clear from all of this, this is what I followed, Plenkovic, from Prime Minister Plenkovic, his statement is difficult to read what is a clear point of view. He's talking about a balanced proposal. So if we represent on the one hand don't, we don't want to touch the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy on the other hand we're saying we're representing a balanced proposal then it's clear that it's already a compromise. The compromise is in the head of those who will represent our interests. And it is likely to be expected on the basis of this report that there will be a reduction in these rights if we are key to the formation of that policy that awaits us. Of course, the common agricultural policy as one of the most prominent should significantly help the Republic of Croatia, the agriculture sector and rural development to keep any step in keeping this depopulation going on in rural areas or reducing agricultural production, especially that part of the processing work is compensated through the financing of numerous investments that something of course of great interest and the Croatian public, although we can often say that agriculture as an economic branch does not have enough attention, but great expectations are. All of us as citizens when we need a quality healthy diet are very sensitive to something coming from any other EU Member State or countries outside the EU, so when there is no quality that we expect to call for domestic production, and we see that domestic production is currently the most burdened with our EU membership and goods that cross the Croatian border very easily which is practically non-existent for goods and which then causes imbalances on our market. It is often mentioned now that the example of apples coming from Poland at significantly lower prices, and here the prime minister probably also followed that the inscriptions have recently been cut down by orchard plantings, is there no longer economic cost-effectiveness. It is very difficult for us in this EU policy to find space where we should be competitive. How will we become competitive if it comes down to Germany reprocessing all our sugar tails, if all the products will be produced in Poland or in another country where our competitiveness is? Our competitiveness can only come from EU policy which significantly helps and encourages development in areas that are underdeveloped. It can't happen that in one balanced policy that's equal to all of us, we get the conditions to be competitive. As long as we do not have the need for any multinational company based in the EU or acting significantly, to have its own drive in Croatia or what would be more desirable or in some less developed area of the Republic of Croatia, we will not feel that grace. Because currently building a significant investment in infrastructure allows our people, our workforce, our primary products very easily to find a way towards destinations in the central part of the EU in developed countries where these people in better paid jobs will process our raw materials that are coming. And the profit that comes into it is small, we can't base our development on being a raw base, that's what we've long established. We do not need to repeat, but we are only talking about that simply European policy must recognise such problems and allow for a balanced development of all its members. Of course, by following new policies, it is very evident that the developed members talk a lot about green policies to prevent negative climate change and target the budget according to the items, the budget items precisely in order to make it more productive. We're like a small country where there's no significant production plants that certainly with all its industry, with all our transport system we're polluting relatively little. We in these policies will find very little space for our entrepreneurs and competition will be great, and our potential will be small as it actually shows and all other aspects of the modernisation of the budget that direct as much resources as possible to something where our businesses will not have enough competitiveness and the draw-up rate, especially in budgetary policies relating to the availability of all members will be small. In this context, it is important to point out exactly how Member States are considering their participation in the revenue side, if we only see that there has been a division, to countries called cohesion friends and states that have called the Club of Scribblings, then it is talking about the need to promote their composition. The stings are those who have achieved their development to have an overstandard view of us and they are about for the common policy and agricultural policy and the financial framework to be smaller, because they do not feel that they need to finance more development, but they keep forgetting that they are also based their development on markets above their countries. Find me a more significant German company that had its development exclusively on the German market. We know very well here many German companies, numerous French, English companies and others who in many other markets have far greater financial effects of their products than in the domicillical ones where they have the most competition. Therefore, if they make their incomes in other countries, then they should understand that these other countries should also have benefits from their action, and through the investment of their home countries is the most transparent. Therefore, on behalf of the club, we will support precisely the efforts that the issue should be pictured by the possibility that some countries have and that those most developed should not now run away. But here I would say that Britain is a classic example of running away from responsibility the moment they became a net payer. There's also an open question about the expansion here through today's debate. I know it would be a political success for all of us together if Northern Macedonia and Albania were to get a date for accession negotiations during our presidency. Prime Minister Plenkovic here made it clear that there must be a perspective, if we have promised someone something then we should stick to it. If these countries are promised to have a perspective of entering the EU to have certain dynamics, if they have achieved a certain level of reform level, they should actually be opened up by a new.../incomprehensible/... with a classic date. But if we go back to our present, when we look at what the promise means, then if we look not so long ago at holidays, when we're promised to buy back the INA, then we need to be suspicious and in the position of those states because they suspect, then you promise us something, but it's not done. Or be executed with a delay that is endless. It means promise, crazy joy. It'll be one day, when? We don't know. Maybe once there's an INA going through some accidents and it stops being valuable, then maybe the Croatian state will say okay, let's go buy something out, so here's a promise to keep. But it is necessary to understand the position of these states, that the promise is not only an open one dimension but that it must have its own reach in which it is realistic, and not that it happens that their governments ultimately resign and consider the political failure that the expectations have failed, and they should promise their citizens. Now you know what political responsibility is when you promise citizens, let's change the name of the state. Let's do something to finally take a step forward and then those who promised to support you, they deny you that, deny you the promise, and then we all get disappointed together. So we learn on these examples, we don't need to promise what you can't keep. It is still a question of Schengen which certainly is something that we all think we should feel almost, that perhaps there were no questions about this migrant crisis, and our borders would already be open, but we cannot really figure out whether it is our technical willingness to protect the border, the EU's external border or whether it is a political issue. If it's a technical readiness, I think we should actually talk about it, what do we have? What kind of people do we have, what technique do we have, how do we do things, is that consistent? To get the commission to confirm that it is, that's how it is. I understood their last recommendation that it is exactly like that, that we are technically ready, that we can take responsibility for protecting the EU's external border. That even the most developed part of the EU that is deep beyond these borders will feel safe, that we guarantee that security, but if we are talking about that political aspect, then we should ask ourselves, what are the friends of the Republic of Croatia? What are the friends of Prime Minister Plenkovic holding us on ice? Is it really any country that can do all this together, what the efforts are, what we're talking about our foreign policy successes undo? Is really one Republic of Slovenia able to say, everything Prime Minister Plenkovic has done with his international action, it is not worth anything because we veto. Then I wonder, who are our friends? Who are we to declare as those who support us, who are pushing us, who of them has the courage to say, here, it is either that country or that statesman, he is your enemy because he does not want to give you the benefit that all EU Member States have, all EU citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175239	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175240	Thank you very much. Here I will say once again, I am sorry that it is also.../incomprehensible/... Prime Minister Plenkovic that he has few representatives from his party, meaning that they do not show any interest in the report of the President of the Croatian Government on the report of the European Council, however, I have lost my patience, and I often leave this, but there has remained a minister, I would once again say that all of these topics that have been given, of course, since the enlargement of the EU, are very important for the Republic of Croatia, especially, I will mention it once again, it is very important and I will say it, for years I have been saying it here in HS, of course that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Incubator that has the most influence of Budimir Lončar and of course they will not listen to me, it is so controlled, something Mate Granic, something Ivo Sanader, something Ivo Sanader, it is so hidden, it is very few people who will listen to this. Serbia, we have a 2016 commission during Oreshkovic's Government, which as a follow-up of Serbia said to the EU, of course it is chapter 23 and 24 where Croatian defenders are essentially left as, in Serbia was given a small Hague,.../incomprehensible/... little Hague, however, the chapter is open, but the Commission is not meeting and neither, only during Oreshkovic's Government it was once met during the Minister of Kovac while he was Minister, after neither Stier nor Pejcinović-Burić nor today's minister, nor.../incomprehensible/... 5 months, 4 times a year must be assembled, 4 times, meaning you already had an obligation to call this council, but you consciously that commission, you are aware of this commission, at the same time as I said a mini issue with Croatia, while together with our president, I have already had an obligation to call this council, but you are in the same way when you're calming in terms with the EU, but you're not sure that you'll be calmed in the key, but you's. When he mentions within the Republic of Croatia, Croatia's imbalances and after the withdrawal of funds, we are last according to this financial framework, but it is important that he has one, two of his EU officials, Pejcinović-Burić and now that he has a Commissioner for Democracy and this demography, means those two things by which Croatia is recognized. I asked the prime minister today, he didn't give me an answer, he moved out of Croatia, those are the problems, when we joined the EU, so we moved out of Croatia. 5% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia is from foreign credits. That's what happened during the '60s. So they send foreign exchanges, so they send our foreign currency to their families and that's that GDP and it's not good, 2/3 of Croatia we have empty and I think that it should be heard, I know that he loves European diplomacy, that he's a magistrate, that he's a long-standing diplomacy, but you ministers respect the law, follow the Republic of Serbia, don't open chapters daily, and that Chetnik Vukic opens up criminals who have been slaughtered by Vukovar, opens monuments and mocks. I know it's a little bit of a problem, that he's in your same party, the general party, the strangers, that you have this problem of cooperating with Vucica, but I think you should look at it, as much as you look at it. As far as climate change is concerned and Croatia's possibilities are concerned, everything is said by fellow Dobrovic who said that bad things are managed by our waste, waste management centres are created which affect both the damage and drinking water, and we are rich in drinking water, we are not protected because we have a waste management centre such as Mariščina where people rebel or a problem like Minister Coric made where 100 km of transport from the same sanitary conditions to another from Vrgorec to Sinj or Brač's problem, 27 random closed dumps, without any preparation. So we're not protecting, just that over the.../incomprehensible/... oil burns in the path of fossil fuels what you're chasing waste 100 km, the more expensive it is, the more it affects the air, but don't worry about Minister Coric, don't worry about it the prime minister, we've had climate change. I know he's over 4, 5 years old, I didn't have the possibility of being in diplomacy at the time, I was in a trench at the time, of course we can't even watch him do this, but life's topics interest me. I want to know why we don't have in the Republic of Croatia, at least we've withdrawn funds from these European funds, and we're talking about the '21 period here. - '27, so seven years old, and so far, we've at least withdrawn the funds, 10% of the assets we've withdrawn, and we haven't built infrastructure or traffic, and we haven't instructed agricultural land on the highway. Croatia has 700,000 hectares of raw agricultural land. For example, here is the Sinjsko polje, I always mention Sinjsko, I come from Sinj, the Sinjsko polje is not watered down, Cetina river clear, the srid field goes by srid polje and the liti cover I see in the Free, the drought in Sinjsko polje, the 21st century, and from the EU funds we did not withdraw. So we're trying to get back to reality and that's why people are leaving, which is why since 2020 I'd like to talk about whether the moratorium has been solved, i.e. I have personally directed a ban law, a ban on selling land to foreign natural and legal persons, when Hungarians, if we are equal in the EU, if we call so much on the EU, on EU values, why can Hungarians buy then in Croatia agricultural land, any other legal or physical person, if they can't, and if we can't, our man in Hungary. I'm sorry we didn't protect the exclusive economic belt, declared it in full application of the exclusive economic belt, not some hybrid, like you bought a car without a wheel, without a car, without a hood, that's what we got today. So we didn't protect this exclusive economic belt, but that's our territory. As far as the migrant crisis is concerned, i.e. I went to Vrgorac in my area, how people live in fear of their property and their safety. And we have a 2016 law where the military can help the police guard the border, the police are doing as much as possible, but there are only 6,000 police officers, it's a little bit on this line. People are exhausted, illegal migrants are coming in and doing damages to our citizens, they don't feel safe, we don't know where that illegal migrants came from, and who's going to answer eventually for all the damage that has been done to our people, or what's stealing their vehicle, or I don't know, so it's breaking or something like that. Therefore, we have a lot of problems, but the main problem is the EU which the Croat is not equal, is not equal. I can't imagine that we here are going to sell milk, I'm sorry that Tolusic isn't here, that we're going to export milk to the Chinese when they were Chinese, and 10% less we produced milk last year than we did a year ago. So we won't have our own needs, and we've moved Slavonia out so that now foreigners can buy agricultural land. Therefore, we do not protect our farmer, our fisherman, our farmer in any sense. So it's just that these cohesion funds aren't being used, and otherwise the funds aren't being used. Therefore, we did not create conditions for a competitive farmer and, above all, economics. And that's why I'm saying, the first league is, I see that everyone's calling for the first league, says the prime minister that the first league was here when it was EPP, the first league is the ones who moved out, they can't even vote because there's no electronic vote in Ireland, Germany, and they're sending over the money. They're the first league, and not Junker, not Tusk, not everyone who was, I have no idea who was there, you're the first league. So we must fight to ensure that our citizens are equal in the EU, not a cashier in the same trade chain in Austria has 10 times more income than in my Sinj in the same centre. Of course he'll leave. How, is this the EU, is that equality, is that equality? I want the Prime Minister to talk about it in the European Council, not that our cashier is moving because there are 10 times, and their products that are imported here, and everything we do imports, other than what we export people, our brains and our people who work hard abroad, in Ireland, produce potatoes that are not fertile soil, and Slavonia is fertile soil, there is no one to plant potatoes. Why is this happening, why are we not equal in the EU? It's a question of all the questions. Croatians are unequal in this EU If we don't fight for it then it doesn't make sense for the EU. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175241	We have one replica of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175242	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, you've devoted a good part of your debate to Serbia. So I'm wondering if you think that the country's president, candidate in the presidential elections and co-creator of foreign policy is leading a good policy towards Serbia together with the government or a bad policy towards Serbia. That's one. And number two, do you think it is better for Croatia to be in the EU or not in the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175243	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175244	The Croatian president, together with the prime minister, is leading a disastrous policy towards the Republic of Serbia because they open chapters and Serbia and Vucic, who leads and is not the problem of Serbia as a country, our neighbouring country, but is the problem of Vucica, who was both a Chetnik and who is, wants to show his remorse, but Seselj's student. And I think the disgraced behaviour of the President of the Republic until they've been passed, so our missing as one key question, all gone to the last name, until war damage was paid and all obligations to victims and campers were respected. Talk to them at all, it's not a problem for Serbia, it's not a problem for Serbia as it is Serbia, but the problem of Serbia's great Serb, Chetnik, Aleksandar Vucic, but of course our policy is a disastrous, mostly president of the Republic who swore not to mention large-scale Serbian aggression, that's what Aleksandar Vucic said, but the great-serb aggression was a fact, and of that fact, Croatian politics must not... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175245	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic, he is not there, he is losing his right to debate and the next debate will be a respected representative of Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175246	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's to continue with a few questions I've been saying on behalf of the club. So one question is the multiannual financial framework. In several of his presentations, the prime minister said and I think he wrote in a report that he submitted to us to balance the funding of traditional policies with those of new and new challenges. That phrase sounds very nice, but what does it mean exactly? Traditional policies are politics, I don't know agriculture, financing agriculture or cohesion policy. Now, the balance between this policy and investment policy in science, innovation and artificial technology, in the management of climate change or the security challenges under the EU. Does this balance mean more money for cohesion policy or less money for cohesion policy? Does this balance mean equal money for cohesion policy in the next financial 7-year period. That's what we really want to hear, phrases sound nice but behind them lies content that we don't understand until the end. The Croatian interest can only be more money for cohesion policy, but that doesn't mean anything to us if we are the last to be paid off by eu funds than all EU countries. Therefore, we cannot boast that we are good when we are last because, as I have pointed out before, the latter is certainly not a category of success. Until we correct the withdrawal of money from the EU, or until we measure our success through paid funds in the EU, we will only actually manipulate the Croatian public who does not understand what contracted funds mean and what that means. The funds paid are the only funds to be counted and from which citizens have concrete benefits. As for our intentions during the presidency, one good intention is to further encourage the EU's strength at global level. It is something that we are all dealing with in our thinking and we are simply witnessing the weakening of the EU's influence in global relations. We are currently on the scene of Turkey's intervention in Syria. They took 30km to create a tampon zone and solved their long-crowded problems with Kurds or with neighbors. Turkey is a candidate country for EU accession and, as such, should co-ordinate its foreign policy, security policy with the EU or even follow a common European, foreign and security policy. But does Turkey do that? It's clear to everyone that it's not working. Even when Turkey's deputy foreign minister visited the Croatian Parliament, he made it clear that Turkey would not follow European policy but would ask Europe to follow Turkish politics. So he also said that Turkish or European, for example, peace units will be welcome in this 30km zone only if Europe agrees to push against the Kurdish state or if it treats Kurdish forces as a terrorist organisation. Now, Europe has no regrets in this dispute. America is also withdrawing at least military, thus losing the political power it had while its military troops were present on the ground. The Russian influence is certainly stronger. Saudi Arabia is trying to absolutely establish itself as the leading regional player. Where the EU is, what I think Croatia will do during the Presidency to show that the EU is still a respectable international player and that it is not just a player when it is necessary to pay bills made by others but when it has a clear stance and clear policy and means to implement such policies. As we intend to label Croatia as, or not Croatia, but as we intend to act as a Croatian state within the EU in order to strengthen the EU's status and influence in the world. As for once again in the Western Balkans, I say it is also our historic task to help our neighbours enter the EU, meet all the conditions and, of course, to open negotiations for those who have not opened up, the Republic of Croatia is in the interest that it has around it a zone of equal legal regime, equal values, so states and governments with which it will be able to address all open issues in one democratic, European way. Anything less than that is not in the interest of the state, so when we speak, we talked about Serbia a moment ago, a democratic, European Serbia that will enter the EU is certainly more in favour of the Republic of Croatia than a regressive nationalist Serbia that will only create problems for the Republic of Croatia and the rest of the world. Therefore, we must remain absolutely committed to the entry of these countries into the EU and closing negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania without neglecting the arguments presented by President Macron and some other country that Europe is not at this time ready for further enlargement because it is simply not consolidated enough, and any new member who enters is increasing the complexity of decision-making in the EU. It is not the same if the 27 or 27 de facto decisions or 30, 35 or more countries are going to make new complexity, and this is the way the decision-making system in Europe is not effective, so if we really want to speed up the accession of the Western Balkans to the EU, it must work very hard on reforms within the EU, these are two parallel processes, one should not wait for the other, and it should be advocated that we go to reform within the EU of things that are not working, but parallel to the fact that the enlargement process is going to negotiate with the candidate countries and those who need to become the ones who are also going to be able to catch the reform rhythm, rather than ultimately not to be ready to join the EU again. However, it is tax-based to hear that Northern Macedonia and Albania are ready to negotiate, and that Europe is not ready to negotiate, and that is, in fact, the message we received from the last European Council where no decision has been taken to start negotiations with these two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175247	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175248	I thank Mr. Klisovic, the message that French President Macron sent is, if you ask me, below all levels and although he rarely agrees with the President of the Croatian Government, his messages to our neighbours regarding EU accession and the fact that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the enlargement of the EU for so many reasons that we cannot count them, of course, I must support them. However, what I cannot support with the president of the Croatian Government who swears to be a great European and who is better equipped with European and foreign affairs is the silence on the fact that the General Consul of the Republic of Croatia participated in a party meeting of the HDZ at which the election promotion was held for the president of the Republic of Croatia. I can't support it, and I don't understand why it wasn't obvious to me, and I don't understand why the gentleman in question didn't react to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175249	Dear Representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175250	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grbin, you are absolutely right, Croatian diplomacy, every Croatian diplomat, and especially the head of a representative must implement a state policy established in accordance with the Constitution of the Government and the President, must not implement a party policy. Agitive for one of the candidates in the presidential elections is an absolute party work that comes out of the context of what, which is responsible for Croatian diplomacy and is actually punishable, so we expect the minister and government to take certain steps and steps towards the Croatian consul in Stuttgart in order to bring his work into legal work, and the Law on Foreign Affairs clearly states that he must protect the Croatian interests and interests of Croatian citizens, not party interests or the interests of a particular candidate in the elections for the president of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175251	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175252	Thank you very much. A colleague of Klisovic, you are also from diplomatic circles, so he would ask you to give me your grade. In 2016, the government's decision, according to which the foreign minister must convene four meetings of the government's Committee for the Monitoring and Implementation of Serbian criteria in Chapters 23 and 24 on Serbia's accession to the EU, is in force. So far, only one has been held in 2016 during Oreshkovic's government, one and none since. Is that a violation of the law? Minister, do you approve that the foreign minister is not one meeting, as Stier later neither Pejcinovic-Buric nor the current one holds any meeting by understanding their policy, the policy that they are in the same Prussian party, but cannot accept why so much protection is being given to Serbia that we would have to block until it meets all conditions mainly missing, war damage and problem with the campers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175253	Dear Representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175254	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Bulj, in the rule of law, the democratic state of the law is respected, if such a thing as an obligation stands in the law then there is no diplomatic experience or interpretation that you can obtain, the law must be respected, the obligations of the law must simply be respected. But I'm not surprised that HDZ governments don't do it, so look at how they violate the authority of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest when they don't deliver those documents that the commission is looking for, that's how Croatian institutions collapse, just as they politicise their work. A moment ago, we mentioned a consul in Stuttgart who began to act partyically, not in line with state interests. The police list union representatives who organise the strike, and what it is, rather than intimidation of the unions, politicisation of police work, all of these are things that bring down the Croatian state, destroy Croatian institutions and fight against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175255	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that today we are discussing a lot of meetings of the Prime Minister within the European Council and that we are doing so here in the Parliament with yet a solid number of representatives here in the Croatian Parliament. I will only talk about one subject, I will not talk about Brexit, about the multiannual financial framework, about climate change but only about enlargement and what happened about Northern Macedonia and Albania. I've heard a lot of reactions that have been scandalous, but I'd say it's not that bad. If we look at what happened to us 14 years ago when we were in the process of starting negotiations and we were blocked. Croatia was blocked in early 2005, we were due to start negotiations in the spring, but because of our co-operation with The Hague court we were delayed and we had just launched negotiations on 3 October 2005. Therefore, it is nothing new, so it is also nothing new for colleagues in northern Macedonia and Albania. But I also believe that this decision of France, although very often perceived negatively, is essentially a contribution to better visibility of what is currently in the EU, is not good enough, which is the EU's effectiveness on a global scale and enlargement policy. In essence, Mr. Macron helped raise the issue of enlargement to a higher level and usually discuss it. When you live outside the Republic of Croatia in some other EU member states, enlargement is not a very popular topic. Enlargement is not particularly discussed in Germany or France, and if it had not been for that decision, Mr. Macron would not have discussed it at all. So let us accept this as some kind of wake-up call for all of us that, unfortunately, the EU is not effective enough when it comes to global policy. The EU is an economic giant, Mr Trump has received Mr Juncker as president of the European Commission when he was to negotiate the possible introduction of taxes on cars, but unfortunately, on the EU's political plan does not show what is on the agenda of the economy, it is a kind of dwarf and it is not good and it needs to be changed and this can change on the plan of the common foreign security policy and, of course, on the enlargement policy plan. Only enlargement as such is something to mean, we have a European perspective for all these member states, but it is not our place to do work for colleagues in neighbouring the Western Balkans, it is work that must be done by candidate countries, it is their job. But what must the EU do? The EU needs some kind of Monroe doctrine, so it should be made clear that in Europe for security and stability the EU is in charge of as a fundamental factor, we must achieve this. So there is no awareness when it comes to these countries, we are the ones who have to deal with the issue of stability in the Western Balkans, and not leave it to, say, Russia, China or some third country that has legitimately its own interests and its vision of solving the problem. We must be the main factor, I say, and Croatia as part of the EU. And when we see that our colleagues in the larger member states on that plan show some kind of impeccableness, then we have to warn them. I personally did it in the French Senate and elsewhere when I said it was wrong, that it was bad, that it should not be done so. When it comes to meeting the criteria here, it is clear as a day that the criteria should be met, it is absolutely true for both colleagues and Serbia, the rule of law comes first. And there are no special newly invented criteria that anyone thinks should apply. There are our criteria, the EU criteria that must be accepted there in those candidate countries and have to live and that is the only indication, that is the only way towards possible membership. We do not have to be afraid that some third country will be more attractive than the EU. They're stories for little kids. When I hear a story that Serbia may be inclined to an alliance with Russia, and to an alliance or to join the EU, it's stories for small children, there's nothing there. All we need to do is look at the most economically co-operated numbers, so it's obvious that, of course, when it comes to Serbia who thinks that maybe there's some special way of being wrong, that there's not one of those concepts of regional forces that reminds us of some medieval concepts like the Germans had when it comes to German knight order or when we remember that our neighbors also had some kind of delusion, so they talked about the Roman Empire in some special territories. These are concepts that are past, which have no place in the EU anymore. It is also up to us to help them or if they want to hear that there is no future with such a policy. As for BiH, we see in particular how inefficient the EU is. It is a country, a country in the Western Balkans, but there are no real moves by the EU itself. There is some kind of lack of interest and this is very bad, although the EU is one of the witnesses of the Dayton Peace Agreements or the agreement in one. It is very bad, and yet there is our role to warn our colleagues in a smart way that if we are not the EU on this plan, we react effectively to threaten what is already happening, but a little harder, which is that this area is some kind of game polygon for the destabilisation of the EU. And that's what's happening. In this area, third-country games happen, there are these games in the EU itself, except that these EU member states are more stable, so they don't feel that way, but in the area where countries are fragile, they're not efficient enough because the structures are weak, and then these games feel like that. In the long term, if there is no EU and if Croatia is not within the EU, it warns its colleagues about this danger, threatens us to have a long-term poor Balkans, not only do we have today the poored south of the EU, Italy, South Italy, Greece, Spain, Portugal, relative to the rich north, but we also have another area that would be long-term poor, which is this Western Balkans, which is our neighbourhood. So it is in our interest not to be long-term border guards, not to spend our money on protecting the EU's external borders and not having an area that is poor but to have an area and economies that work, which have the right workforce that we will also be able to use for our economy. That's the way to think. You today have a problem with the EU itself in the East, Central Europe with labour. In Slovakia, they urge high school students not to go to college, but to work in the automotive industry, they need labour. Less and fewer member states have a labour problem. Why has Romania been more successful than some other developing countries have increased by 15% in the last 10 years, a large country, a great potential, full labour force. So it's up to us to warn our colleagues about what's going wrong, and I'm going to end up with something about not just that expansion of the Western Balkans, which is demographics. We must impose a theme of demographic imbalances. There are macroeconomic imbalances, so this is being followed intensively, now Dubravka Shuica has been elected vice president, we need to monitor the EU's demographic imbalances due to the stability of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175257	Thank you, and for your exposure, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175258	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Kovač, you were the minister of diplomacy, so one similar issue to your previous speaker, means under the auspices of Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Grlic-Radman, as well as his predecessors Stier and Pejcinovic-Buric violate the government's current decision that the Serbian Supervisory Commission must meet and propose decisions to fully fulfil Serbia's obligation to compensate for the victims of Serbian aggression 4 times a year. In the last three years, for three years neither foreign minister has called the meeting. Not once. So they're breaking a valid decision. What is your comment on the violation of this decision on the commission, on calling a committee on Serbia's accession monitoring means.../incomprehensible/... 23rd and 24th chapters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175259	Dear Representative Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just going to say something about the mandate of my little one under the previous HDZ government. She was taking the lead, and I'm glad she keeps it up. A self-aware Croatian foreign policy was conducted. Self-aware Croatian foreign policy, emancipated Croatia on the foreign agenda, and I will be a little immodest, you will not blame me. We have shown that we can as a smaller state encourage colleagues to change the criteria in Chapter 23. We have done this without any consequences, and for this reason, colleagues in Serbia today must meet things like resolving compensation issues for our campers, they will have to solve the issue of our Croatian minority in Serbia in the long term, all of these things we did in 2016 under Chapter 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175261	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175262	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Kovac. The EU Council did not decide to open negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, primarily because of France, which opposed. Meanwhile, France has come out with a proposal to modernise, revitalise the enlargement process programme and has even formalised it, it has sent to Member States. Do you think it is best for the French to say that everything you propose is already contained in the concept and methodology of the enlargement process and that we should not discuss it or that some different Croatian policy might be easier to open negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175263	Dear Representative Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175264	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Klisovic, you are talking to a person who has succeeded within their own, whether it is a duty to impose on colleagues a Croatian view. So the other way around... It is the first thing, and the second thing, as far as negotiations with Macedonia, Northern Macedonia and Albania are concerned, we will be the ones who will be positives, I think of Croatia because we will open negotiations under our presidency so that we will have one plus on this plan, I think of Croatia, where it will be open at that time, that is my assessment, my modest assessment that the negotiations will be open next year in the spring with Northern Macedonia and Albania, and we would then at that summit in May give one incentive to apply to that enlargement policy and how does this enlargement policy depend on how the EU looks at the global plan are we a dwarf or we are a giant? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175265	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175266	Thank you very much. Here, I'm glad the prime minister is here, I know how much the EU means to him, anything when it's said critically to the EU he's like that kitten to the chicken when it's a little sharp, you can't say the words against the EU. I think you should listen to how people live. Like what? I was counting, you weren't here, for example. A cashier who works in the same trade chain as Austria and their products, they're much more expensive with us, has one 10-fold less salary. So the EU must be equal. So all you've said about expansion and climate change, how we're going to guard the prime minister's climate change when Minister Ćoric remembers to close 27, 27 waste dumps that have the same sanitary conditions, absolutely the same to chase waste from one 100km to the other, how much fossil fuels in the air, which came to mind. Because if in the middle of Lečevica you do the waste management center where drinking water is, that's why the water has to enter the Constitution. Of course people are interested in how our farmer lives. You mention funds, mention funds, but we're at the bottom of a fund withdrawal. You mention '21/'27. The financial period and ok should be mentioned, but we are at the bottom. So the Croatian administration has at least withdrawn funds from the eu funds and that's the problem, the huge problem. We don't have my Sinj field irrigated. I'm glad when you come to Sinj to open up, my proposal that I made, Mark Happy, so remember me to insult, it's okay, it's nice to see you, when it was bust Mark Happy you came and I'm glad, I'm glad when you come to Alka, I'm glad that you all come but not one project that calls for eu funds, the EU, a number of billions that are mentioned inside or cohesion or eu funds that can be found in any other way, there are no projects. And that's the reality. It's hard for me to tell the Prime Minister when you say no, our police force, that our police are doing their job, 6 thousand people, but it's small but we have the law, so that means that we brought in this House 206, we voted here where the Croatian Army is helping the police because we have to worry about the safety of our fellow citizens down in that area. We also need the security of their assets and personal security. Who's going to pay people for the damage, so who's going to live in these areas? We need to talk about problems, real problems. When we talk here, I didn't think 5x I mentioned your minister, about enlargement, of course now you should say no to Serbia you will be blocked until you pay, until first you give all the missing, until you pay war damage and not paint on Pantovich to mock us, he brought some cadastrian books, what did he bring up, mock us, instead of bringing our dead to the last letter. He should not have entered Croatia, that Chetnik prime minister, was not allowed in. The Chetnik, who wishes to be a penitent but was a Chestnik, Cheseliu, was not allowed in, let alone to enter the government, the Bane Dvor or to enter Pantovčak to have the Croatian army lined up, must not enter as long as it is at the head of Serbia. He can't come in. I'm younger than you are for a few years, and I know the reasons why I'm saying you can't come in here. Because he was hoarding people of Serbian nationality at the great borders and great Serbia. Because he's guilty of crimes. And there is no debate here, blocking Serbia as long as this Chetnik Vukic does not meet the requirements of all, all, at least these three key, missing, war damage and campers' problem. And I'd like you to listen to it a little bit, I know that under lights or Brussels or here Parliament, we're thinking differently. But the fact is that we are not equal in the EU, that we do not have the strength to protect our fisherman, that we do not have the strength to declare to the Prime Minister the full application of the exclusive economic belt. It is our right as it is the right to protect our citizens. It's our right and you need to hear it. You can't, you can come out here now and insult that I absolutely don't care, absolutely but I know there's a people down there in fear, that people are leaving. So 5% of GDP to the prime minister, 5% of GDP is from our Croats evicted from 2/3 of Croatia. Agricultural land, it is anything solved that in 2020 is not sold, it is discussed, that foreigners cannot buy our field that has been emptied, our Slavonia. My Sinjsko polje, which is not irrigated, I said, in 2020, Cetina no longer casts out the water source in one day than all the sources in Israel, is not irrigated Sinjsko polje and we have funds in the EU, i.e. in funds for that. We haven't done our homework well. And I beg you, hear this, hear for this people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175267	Thank you very much, thank you. The final word will be taken by the esteemed Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175268	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the end of today's debate, I would like to thank you for the constructive positions of a number of clubs and representatives who have analysed the main topics we are discussing on the European Council. I think the special value of this debate for all of us is that this is practically as far as I can see from the script of the Croatian Parliament's work, the last debate of this kind before Croatia formally takes over the presidency. So I hope that this exercise that is taking place now 7 practically quarter has sensitized additional Croatian representatives and the public on these most important topics, we will discuss them together during the 6th month of the first half of 2020. I expect a significant and important contribution from MPs in various forums where, as will be done by the Government at Council level, you will play a leading and leading role in interparliamentary cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175269	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175270	Now let's go to the vote on the debated points. The first is the Report on meetings of the European Council and of the European Council (Art. 50.) held in Brussels on 17 and 18 October 2019. Comrade Bernardic, are you picking up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175271	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for a break of awareness of the situation and the chaos that is happening in the Republic of Croatia, aware of the situation that children are still not in our country in school benches. A vast majority of teachers rejected the Prime Minister's offer in their referendum. In this way, they directly said what they thought of him and what they thought of his offer to humiliate them again and belittle them. The teachers told you that people are not goods and they told you that they could not be bought as bought by this congregation majority. For the failure of educational reform, for the strike of teachers and for children still not going to school in Croatia, the most responsible is Prime Minister and then Resort Minister Blaženka Divjak. Therefore, we require that the union's demands be met urgently. to get the kids back to the school bench as soon as possible. [[Intruder president: colleague Bernardić.]] And we demand that you leave... [[Invader President: Comrade Bernardić, please stop for a moment just to tell you something.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175272	My colleague Bernardic, let me tell you something, I'll turn on the microphone and you don't yell. ... Wait a minute, let me say something, just a minute. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, a recess can be sought in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the item of the agenda to be voted on, I ask you to link your request to this point because otherwise it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. I'm just warning you, you've got another minute to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175273	Absolutely, yes, the European Council report is on the vote, a point on the European Council's report here the other day, which was reported by the Prime Minister but while he was reporting and on the European Council, a strike took place in Croatia. And that's why I'm looking for this break right now, right now before the vote for that point to warn that for the failure of educational reform, for the teacher strike and for children not yet in the benches, is exactly the most responsible Prime Minister and his resolute minister, Blaženka Divjak. And therefore, we demand that the union's demands be met as quickly as possible in order for the children to return to school benches as soon as possible and we demand that Blaženka Divjak leave the post of Minister of Education because he is responsible for all the problems in that system. If these demands do not meet, we will demand the departure of the entire government of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the government of Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175274	Thank you. Stanka approves, of course. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175275	However, Your Honor, you have reacted, but my colleague Bernardic has righted himself, it seems to me that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a subject, and I would ask my colleagues from the SDP not to be paralysing on the strike because they have just taken the odds, teachers, teachers and teachers to fight for their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175276	Yes, this is on the verge of the Rules of Procedure's injury because you've withdrawn well, so we won't give a warning. Okay, is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 12 o'clock and 35 minutes. MEETING IN 12,24 HOURS Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work as I have announced the first item on which we vote is the European Council and European Council Meetings Report (Article 50) held in Brussels on 17 and 18 October 2019. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.36 HOURS]] The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Clubs, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the National Minority Representatives' Club, the Labour Party's Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, and I am voting on the next conclusion. Report of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on meetings of the European Council and of the European Council (Article 50) is hereby adopted. which took place on 17 and 18 October 2019 in Brussels. Please, let's vote. I find that with 76 votes for and 1 abstention and 29 votes against the adopted and accepted report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175278	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to the next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Decorations and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 795. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of the motionary-respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Administration of Ms. Joseph Roman gives us an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175279	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Draft draft law supplementing the Law on Fines and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for a law. This year ends the 20th anniversary of the death of the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman. It is an opportunity for the Republic of France to establish the high medals of the President of the Republic of Franjo Tuđman by which the founder of the democratic, sovereign and independent Croatian state and the Supreme Croatian Army in the Homeland War will be placed in the ranks of the highest Croatian heads of state and thus will permanently express the gratitude of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens to its historical merits. Franjo Tudjman belongs to the most responsible persons in the creation of a modern, independent democratic Croatia. In its state visionary period and in the time of the collapse of the communist totalitarian system in late 20th century, he introduced Croatia to the order of the free world, along with his associates and the entire Croatian people, and the Croatian people to the order of the people who decide their own fate. Thanks to President Tudjman's courageous and thoughtful actions in adverse circumstances, during the first years of Croatian independence during the period of aggression in Croatia and the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia has come out of war as a winning state with a clear vision of further achievements of strategic state interests, especially those related to the accession of Euro-Atlantic integration, the North Atlantic Alliance and the EU. Because of the ideas of Croatian freedom, independence and independence to which he completely devoted his life and work, Dr. Franjo Tudjman belongs to the order of the most important Croatian state chiefs. In memory of the permanent memory, with the expressions of sincere gratitude to the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, it is proposed that this law determine the award of the Duke of the President of the Republic of Franjo Tudjman with the Lent and Danica, which would be awarded every year following the anniversary of his death to Croatian citizens as an expression of the highest recognition of the Republic of Croatia for the promotion of Croatian, state and national interests in the country and abroad, particularly for the promotion of civil unity, national unity, statehood, spiritual values of the Croatian people. In accordance with Art. 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure and the entry into force of the first day of publication in the National Journal in order to be able to access the decoration of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Franjo Tudjman and to be able to carry out the appropriate procedure for the award of medals in order to allow the first award of medals to be awarded on 10 December 2019 on the 20th anniversary of death of Dr. Francis Tudjman. On behalf of the promoter, I propose the adoption of this final draft of the law and I declare myself on the subject of the amendment of the Legislative Committee to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175280	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of the final draft law. We have replicas, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175281	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State of Rome, you said and asked for the law to be passed by emergency procedure. Now, what are these reasons for the Law of Features being passed by emergency procedure? Usually emergency situations are resolved in an emergency procedure. What is so urgent in this situation that it is for the benefit of the people and the citizens of the country itself? So, just one thing seems to be happening right now, which is why this law is being passed, and that's the presidential campaign, it's an attempt to stimulate, in the presidential campaign of the HDZ candidate and in this way, to help her organise one activity that will gather the sympathy of a certain number of people. Well, you see, laws are not passed to promote the interests of individual candidates in the presidential campaign, but to solve citizens' problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175282	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175283	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you said that this year is 20 years old and that this opportunity is actually due to the amendment and addition of this law, or the very high order of President Franjo Tuđman with Lent and Danica. The occasion was 10 years ago, so 10 years ago, it could have been done, but then the head of state was a man who, when you mentioned the name of Franjo Tudjman, had been experiencing factions and that was actually why it wasn't brought. It's a shame, it's such a shame that at the time it was talked about the father of the modern Croatian state, the only thing the president could have done was tell certain jokes that only loved those who didn't like or wanted the Republic of Croatia, and that's why it happened. For this reason, praise to you and to all those who were in the task force and on the occasion of this 20th anniversary, have passed such a bill of law, which I warmly welcome, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175284	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ esteemed colleague, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, academician Željko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175285	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, as counterpart Babic said in his replica, it could have been brought before and should have been brought before, but that is no reason not to bring now when we mark the 20th anniversary, which will be on December 10th of this year when we mark the 20th anniversary of the death of the first Croatian president. Why does he deserve to be called the most Croatian medal by his name? After a series of centuries of longing for their own, independent, independent state led by Dr. Francis Tudjman was finally created. And today, even those who have not agreed with him in all their lives do not dispute that he is undoubtedly the largest state in Croatia’s recent history, that is, the last few centuries. We had big politicians who stood up and dreamed of a free, independent Croatian state from Eugen Kvaternik, Ante Starčević, the Radic brothers and others, but he was the only one who did it. We all know that the creation of a state was part of a large number of Croatian citizens who defended Croatia from Serb aggression, but just under its leadership, a wise and thoughtful policy, determined when it was meant to be determined, and wise when it was meant to be wise to go after the preservation of human lives and the achievement of Croatia's independence, this country was created and the possibility was created for us to debate here today. I must stress that something that is not often mentioned, that Croatians were not only involved in the defence of Croatia under its leadership. There were many Serbs and the Czechs, and the Slovaks, and the Hungarians, and the Russian and members of other minorities, all those who felt Croatia with their homeland, which was at that time very threatened. But it wasn't his only goal, and the only thing he succeeded in, to defend the state from Serb aggression and the state, was to create it, but also to democratisation society and the market economy, to introduce a different social system. No other country in transition is in transition to the market economy and a change in the social system has simultaneously had a terrible aggressive war in which 15 thousand people died in which tens of thousands of people remained permanently damaged in which 260,000 houses, churches, hospitals that all had to be restored. The realization of democracy under such difficult conditions was indeed a huge undertaking that was once again made under the leadership of Dr. Francis Tudjman. He wanted Croatia not only to be an independent state, but to be a democratic state, to be a state where there will be a market economy, to be a modern, medium-European state, to connect Croatia's homeland with the evicted Croatian community around the world and to insist on it all the time. One of his great achievements is the peaceful reintegration of the Poduna. It is one of the most successful peacekeeping operations in the history of the UN that surrounds Croatia's territorial integrity. By including Croatia, he gives a peaceful route to the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia, creating the basis for the process of reconciliation, co-existence, integration and can serve as an example, as a model of peaceful conflict resolution in similar situations. The retired American general, former UNTAES Transition Manager for Croatian Podunavlje Jacques Klein, said in 2013, when he said how many problems he and President Tudjman met and all the resistances were being given to this peaceful reintegration, but thanks to his tenacity and his diplomatic skills, it was done and the goal came without violence, that no one suffered. It took a lot of time to think, negotiate and work, but it paid off, and it achieved its goal, which is the territorial unity of the Republic of Croatia. We must not forget that he was the initiator and creator of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which prevented the creation of a new Yugoslav community without the will of the people, and there were such tendencies, there was pressure to establish the possibility of association in the Western Balkans, etc. etc. His foreign policy achievements are very important for the Republic of Croatia, we have been talking about the Republic of Croatia in the EU all afternoon, so the Republic of Croatia would not have been if it hadn't been for him and his leadership and all those who followed him in the defence of the Republic of Croatia and in the creation of the Croatian state, let alone the Republic of Croatia in the EU, but that was his goal at first. First, the first goal of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia on 15 January '92. Despite opposition from the International Community for the Creation of an Independent Republic, those younger who do not remember it should be told by the International Community that, if it did not want an independent Republic, it wanted to preserve some form of Yugoslavia, the UN gave its decision on the arms embargo to the Serb aggressor because they thought they would quickly conquer the Republic of Croatia. Tudjman kept working on the diplomatic plan at the end of '91. He succeeded in obtaining support from the Holy See, Austria, Germany and several other states, and then came a joint EU recognition on 15 January 1992. Thanks to him, the Republic of Croatia became a member of the UN on 22 May '92, something that we could only dream of for years, it became a member of the Council of Europe on 6 November 1996, again a huge step towards integration which he had been seeking since the beginning of the Euro-Atlantic, the Republic of Croatia, in Euro-Atlantic integration, it was his initial programme and it came true. His first programme recognised the Republic of Croatia in a community of free democratic European states, which today is the EU, with a clear shift from the political weights that the Republic of Croatia has moved from the world of Western European countries and tried to keep it in an environment in which it did not want to be. The foundations of his policy were, among other things, the unification of all Croats regardless of ideological orientation. Re-entry into the Central European Civilian Circle and debalkanisation of the Republic of Croatia in that peorative sense, I think, when I mention the Balkans, here are neither in the geographical, political, renewal of the repressed and stigmatised Croatian traditions, culture, language and history. He led this country's people with state wisdom and determination in the last decade at the most difficult time, the time of his struggle for survival and freedom, and under his leadership, the Republic of Croatia has achieved all its goals. In all these difficult circumstances, Franjo Tudjman managed to form some of the components needed to defend the Republic of Croatia, the first Croatian combat force, the first Croatian director, later ZNG, brilliantly fought a war diplomatic battle in 1990 and '91. By balancing between the necessary conflict and diplomatic activity for the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia and under its leadership, the Republic of Croatia has defended 70% of its territory from a powerfully armed brutal aggressor, and later by peaceful integration, it has achieved 100% control over its country. Between 1991 and '95. Franjo Tudjman organized with his associates the training of HV which carried out a series of free action that was the principles of the enemy's morals, and then at great risk to the Liberation Actions Flash and Storm HV beat the aggressor to the feet in front of the whole world and it was indeed the highlight of his political and military doctrine where everyone expressed admiration. The idea of national reconciliation with the unity of the country's evicted Republic of Croatia to the 3rd pillar of its doctrine, which is the idea of Croatian national law, the rights of Croatian people to their country, which has been encouraged by Ante Starcevic, the peacemaking of Stjepan Radić and the state-owned Croatian left with the social justice programme, on the basis of these 3 principles Franjo Tudjman has succeeded what many, many have dreamed of, created for the first time in modern history an independent democratic Croatian state, and this is an impenetrable credit for the first Croatian president. The aim is also to reconcile the children of Ustasha and Partisan, thinking that we can preserve the free and independent Republic of Croatia from today's perspective, 20. After his death, we look at his policy, we see how visionary it was, and we see how much it was really needed, if it wasn't for who to do so to end the aggression against the Republic, who knows if we would be able to even discuss today whether we are very important in the EU or to some less important in the EU, whether we are part of NATO or only dream about NATO, etc. etc. The state's art was particularly demonstrated when it succeeded within 6 months of June of '91. until January '92. Turning the international community's negative stance and agreeing to Croatia's international recognition. He kept talking, negotiating, and as he said for Croatia he would swallow green frogs and negotiate with the black devil only to achieve a peaceful solution for Croatian occupied areas. He offered a permanent arm of reconciliation, at first it was not accepted and had to be achieved by fighting some, some goals but peaceful reintegration of the Podunov proved also to be one of his successes. He had the support of most Croatian people as no politician after him, nor before him. President Tudjman strongly opposed all those who wanted to reintegrate free and independent Croatia into a community of Southern peoples, etc. The Western Balkans' strategies, which were very strong. And he managed to resist all this. So he certainly deserves to be named after his name. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175286	I thank my colleague Reiner. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, this morning during a debate on the agenda, I said something about the daily political reasons why this law is being passed. That part I'm going to fill in at the very beginning of this debate on behalf of the club, and it's not about the president of dr. Franje Tudjman, concerning President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. The way she's been dealing with governmental traits lately, and especially the features of the President of the Republic, specifically the flag of the President of the Republic, and the general way in which she behaves, it seems to me it would be very dangerous to give her a name, which bears the name of President Franjo Tudjman more for the protection of the dignity and dignity of Franjo Tudjman, but if you decide to bring it to me in this we cannot prevent you. As regards the reasons for the emergency procedure, it says that the emergency procedure is being brought in view of the 20th anniversary of the death of the first Croatian president in order to approach the making of the medal and to allow the first assignment to be presented on 10 December 2019 on the 20th anniversary of the death of Franjo Tudjman. That the 20th anniversary of Franjo Tuđman's death will be known for exactly 20 years, something less, therefore the government is who has already initiated the passing of this short law, with this it is at least 2, 3 months late to then be in normal procedure, not in a way that we discuss in the evening and that is otherwise used, which is very rare for the law to enter into force on the first day of the day of publication in the National Journal. So this one would end up in a daily way with regard to the technical part. The president will do with what she thinks she should do, and there's one story about throwing pearls, but she has a very offensive ending, so unfortunately I can't finish it, but that reminds me of it. As far as the SDP's relationship with the first Croatian president is concerned, Franji Tudjman was told by the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia 18 or 19 years ago by Franji Tudjman, who, during the anniversary of his death in Mirogoja, who could, who said: We will remember him for good, and we will make mistakes. However, we only had two times, 1.5 times because he said it in half a term, an opportunity to fix mistakes so we couldn't quite fix them, and the opportunity to remember it for good, we have very often because today's HDZ and before that HDZ is far below the level that was president of Dr. Francis Tudjman, so from that aspect very rarely we have a chance to say something, bad to say about him. In this regard, those who came after him were far worse, especially some. Mr. Reiner, on behalf of the HDZ Club, mostly stuck to this first one, we'll remember it for the good, and the fact that you've listed with some different expression wouldn't be a problem for me either. I've also listed six things that need to be put down for him regardless of what it's not to the extent that minus how much you could give him plus. In fact, you could actually compare our relationship with President Tudjman, the kind of President Tudjman we have to Marshal Tito, and that was generally positive with certain remarks. He also proved this by holding his bust all the time in Pantovac, and it also proves SDP when an international airport named after Franji Tudjman during his government. So maybe the best way to describe it would be to describe it. So, in those minuses you would definitely count him by the end of the '90s. It led to an isolation from which, from which Racan's government only directed the path towards European integration and NATO. It's signed, we entered a partnership for peace, and we signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement first, and then we got candidate status. Certainly insufficient treatment or sponsorship of conversion and privatisation, the attitude towards political opponents in which the most is most, the most can describe his sentence, the green, yellow and red devils and the fact that he did not give the 4 mayors today from HSLS to make the will of the citizens, or the assembly become mayors, and, of course, as Heidukovac, I hold him as neutrally as he did not allow Dinamo to be called Dinamo despite the will of citizens, fans, etc. But I'm saying, that's no reason for the general assessment to be negative right now, but it's just to be clear that we mention these things too. The fact is that they also do, at least according to the latest studies of 20 years of Dr. Franje Tudjman, most of the citizens, experience him more positively compared to other historical figures, the closest he came to him is that he was particularly dear to me again, Ivica Racan in this comparison of how citizens compare them, however, it is generally irrelevant. So, unfortunately, the SDP club will vote against this law because of the context and time in which it is brought, we do not want to be part of the HDZ pre-election campaign for President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and nor do we want to take the risk of our vote by Mrs. The president gets into her hands something with which she could violate the dignity and medals she would assign and especially the first Croatian president in the way she did with the flag of the President of the Republic by putting on birthday cakes and singing along the way as one other person in history, though, she sang to the President and this is the President. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175288	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Stevo Culej, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175289	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, after this debate, I can say in principle that in some things, you might even wonderly agree with my colleague, Bauk, but whenever I prepare for the debate, something always moves me to turn away from that lead I've prepared and the schemes, so I'm going to have to do it this time. There was only one word he used, and I got it in my head. Don't throw the pearls in front of the pigs. I know what's about, but once upon a time, someone threw pearls in front of some pigs who couldn't appreciate it because they weren't up to that role they were acting on, not the time or space they lived in, and possibly, it might be better if they never were born. Less damage would be done. Or that they were born in another time, so we wouldn't at least be in the future, so we never knew about them, but I doubt that the purpose of the campaign is to propose this law. In principle, in principle, I agree with this bill because it is extremely good because if anything, it will at least contribute to something better, more advanced and that this award will be greater than the one given by the president of two mandates, Mesic. Why am I saying that? Velered King Tomislav with a flax and a great Dane. It is the greatest medal in Croatia ever received. And imagine, he gets the Mesic. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Pusic, she's not here, there's no Stazic, there's no coat of arms, there's no Jovanovic, I wouldn't be happy to have them here. In 2000, when the red two-headed dragon rode Croatia with the Red Party's party and with the same president in two terms, they proposed the president as Croatia's greatest medal. They're proposing a man, a witness liar. A man when he's buzzing, he's lying. He doesn't sing Ustasha wakes in Australia but he does something else in Australia, he collects checks. He collects Australian dollars to help Croatia. And what's he doing? He's not only lying, he's stealing. It was these days that the verdict was made in Split that he stole checks in Australia from our Croats who the late President Tudjman managed to mobilize all for Croatia, all for one idea, Croatia above all. Croatia was only a shortcut to some, and some were filled with a pair of bags. And so Mesic yawning at Ustasha wakes in Australia, he puts those checks and dollars in his pockets and promises I carry it to our Croatia, all for Croatia, for nothing, I will do it in the right things, but these checks never came to Croatia, they were lost in some of his movements. I don't know what's wrong with him moving, it looks like a man is dealing with some concepts that honest people can say even a little bit. The same Mesic, a witness liar, is now a thief, and has yet another quality of such a president, yet he was chosen by Tito's Croats for two terms. This same, he succeeds in becoming a false witness in The Hague and therefore, if someone is a witness and if someone delivers documents of special importance to their state to the Hague tribunal or to the enemies of Croatia, what he may be, he can only be a traitor. So the three qualities of one president were needed and he saw them fulfilled, and thus he got the highest medal. That's why it's good for this medal to be above it, so I believe Mesic won't win it because we still don't know what the fourth quality he owns is, to get this one, this medal. This is where the MPs sit. Now they don't sit because they know exactly what would wait for them to sit here. When a man says of the first Croatian president that he allowed crimes, that he was an accomplice to crimes even, imagine, and that says the greatest man HS, he is as big as that pillar, and he seems to have so much knowledge of certain things, this man forgets that the distinction for another service could be called the distinction of the killer of the Government of the coat of arms, the bloody Croat from Pula who killed two Croatian soldiers on his back and he dares to call the first Croatian president almost a criminal, so isn't that a shame? In this empty HS it will not defend its kinky, nakaradic, not Croatian, anti-Croatian, traitorous Judas words. What do you call a medal? Maybe after his uncle or maybe a medal by Stephen Mesic, 30 silver pieces of Judah, traitors, liars, thieves, and we don't know how yet. There's no gentleman here who says the winners are '45. They've done their job in a sloppy way, is that a representative in the Croatian home? The one who calls for the completion of the crime of the totalitarian system that we don't hear here mention that, that the European Parliament has brought anything about it, is not talking about it, and he calls for the completion of the call of the same bloody work, the one who was hiding like a sloth rat to call someone, the rat, all those war years have been silent, you haven't played a voice, and now in the democracy that the first Croatian president made possible and through reconciliation when you saw through your fingers all the crimes you've committed for the greater things, and that's the Croatian state, again you're talking to me, and I see you here and I see you when I see you as '91. To the Storm. The shameful steps that I have to listen to here on behalf of the Croatian people, on behalf of all Croatian defenders, and I cannot adequately respond because it is not the time, as he says, is not finished, what if the Croatian defenders were thinking in this way when they came from the Storm, what if they had thought to finish the job, with whom, with the taxes, with Tito's Croats, so what would you want, some of your Croatians, you couldn't have it, you had it in the dungeon of Yugoslavia, because then the RH was just yours and catastrian and property, you had the whole RH for yourself. To deny President Tudjman and his role in this home can only be a man like that first traitor, thief, fraud, liar, only such people can speak of the first Croatian president, the first one, so he is not the last one, so he was not the second and third one as I mention him, he was the first. Our Croatian children will learn about their Croatian President Franji Tudjman, and those who are after him Let those two forget. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175290	...respected colleague Cule. We have replicas, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175291	I will stick to this first part of President Mesic, I will tell you, I will read to you, this is the most Croatian distinction granted only to state heads of state, Stjepan Mesic awarded with a sign of recognition for his exceptional merits for promoting the Republic of Croatia and its reputation abroad as a country that promotes ideals and equality and security and stability, such political work makes an exceptional contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, and Croatian citizens of Stjepan Mesic have given great confidence twice by voting for him in the elections, he said you know who and you know when. President of HS Vladimir Seks, Vladimir Seks, on July 13, 2005. HDZ was then in power, followed by December 2008. Stjepan Mesic Šeksu awarded the award of Velered King Peter Krešimir IV with Lent and Danica for outstanding contributions to the independence and integrity of the Republic of Croatia, construction and progress of the Republic of Croatia, and for personal changes to the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to other countries and peoples. After all, in the '90s, the first day Franjo Tudjman was elected president, Stjepan Mesic was elected prime minister, therefore in this side of the Assembly about Mesic. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175292	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Hey, buddy Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175293	Comrade Bauk, when you mention Shakespeare to me or anyone from the past with such a role, don't expect me to blush on his behalf, I don't want to, I wasn't there, because if I was there, that's the thing. And my colleague Mesic, a colleague with coffee, is proof of how much he contributed to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world and in the country, and most of all in Australia among our emigrants. I'm just wondering if we're going to take away his medals if he's acquired them in an unholy way, with a mold, whether he'll return the money and medals like he knew to take away Zagorac and Norac for some misdeeds and it's an emergency, not even waiting for a court sentence, whether or not he'll get his medals taken away, which is exactly what I'm going to write tomorrow because I don't have time for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175294	Thank you, colleague Culey, for your reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175295	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culey, when you said that you were in agreement with Mr. Bauk, I was stoned, I was shocked, I thought it was possible after his speech on behalf of the club where he was so distraught about some of the ephemeral things that F. Tudjman might have done and in these circumstances, that's the question now, that's actually the question, but then I realized that you were sarcastic and that you only said so at the same time that you would fill your debate in the name of the club. The fact is that Croats glorify other people's statesmen from Schuman, De Gasperi, De Gaulle, I don't know, Gandhi, Solzhenjin, but when they talk about F. Tudjman, then always with some restraint. However, the more history and time goes on, the more F. Tudjman grows and the better the statesman, and we'll actually understand his role. In 2009, he couldn't bring it because he was terrified of F. Tudjman but was supposed to suggest A. Bauk who was then head of the Ministry of Administration because he couldn't do it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175296	Thank you, colleague Babic. Answer, colleague Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175297	My friend Grandma, an old saying goes differently, but I will translate it in my own way. When the Croat doesn't recognize the Croat as his brother, then he'll get a Serb as his master.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175298	Thank you. We move to the final word, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. academician Željko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say a few words to once again expose some false myths that are created and that are then perpetuated every so much when they want to reduce the value and key role of our greatest as I said, statesman in the recent history of Dr. F. Tudjman. The first is the story of privatisation. So Tudjman was not involved in the conversion but rather in state affairs, defence, freeing the country from Serb aggression, international status of Croatia, etc. The privatisation was carried out by communist personnel who remained in the SDP and some switched to HDZ but did not take care of either SDP or HDZ but exclusively of their own interests. On the other hand, lagging technology, a poor organisation of work, a self-management that didn't work, could not survive in new world market relations. In no communist country, privatisation was really good or just. The situation in Croatia was particularly specific because Croatia was on the one hand defending itself against the aggressors, 25% of Croatia was occupied, worried about between 600,000 and up to a million refugees and exiles and privatisations were in the other plan and some war profiteers took advantage of it. However, it is clear that only 13% of the Croatian economy has been privatised in the 1990s. Let's stop lying about that when some big theft happened, and all of it, it reminds me of the statements of someone they mentioned before, who talked about billions he knew had gone abroad, when he came into a position to get them back, nothing more than these billions, not a cent came back. People were sold propaganda that companies were sold for 1 kuna but with the mandatory release of allegations of buying and accumulated company debt. The largest number of companies privatised were actually losers, communist mastodons who had nothing to look for in a real game on the global market. Another myth that Croatia was in international isolation during Tudjman and in front of UN sanctions, the mantra is a common lie. That lie follows the second mantra that in 2000, the third government of January and President Mesic were rescued from international isolation. It's enough to see a memorial held in the UN on December 15th, '99. Mr. To realize that it's just a lie. The ceremony was addressed by prominent statesmen, representatives of different groups of countries, representatives of African countries, Asian countries, Eastern European countries, Latin-American countries, Western countries and Richard Holbrooke as a representative of the United States and all spoke exclusively in positive tones about President Tudjman. So, international isolation, no, it's the invention of those who have not endured the creator of the modern Croatian state because they did not give such speeches in the UN, those who were not appreciated internationally. And one more thing is about the Dinamo Club. I'm a Dinamian, and I know the Hajduks might think a little differently, but let's remember the whole story. So, Dinamo, NK Dinamo is a follower of the NK Civilian who was violently disbanded in 1945 when communists were ruthless in their revenge, burned down a rich club archive and founded a club with a new similar name Dinamo. However, the club continued to live of course, it was a symbol of Croatia, of course, as Hajduk was also a symbol of some, but the fact is that the name was imposed, without the consent of fans and supporters of the club and that it was worn by clubs exclusively from Eastern then communist Europe. And then when we look at the date of establishment of the club, it is taken on April 26, 1911, when the NK Civilian was founded, which in itself proves that Dr. Tudjman wasn't wrong when he claimed that the history of Dinam didn't begin in '45. 30 years later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175300	I thank my colleague Reiner. We have a final word from a esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, here's your colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175301	Thank you. It's not bad to open some topics as one discussion and remember. So, as far as privatisation is concerned, I'm going to read another phonogram of what I said, but I thought I said, I believe I did, and I said, I resented his sin of failure, and for this other one I didn't have any proof, that's what Mr. Rainer confirmed because you said he wasn't involved, maybe if he did, maybe it would be better and maybe he wouldn't, who knows. Secondly, as far as international isolation is concerned, Croatia is its Euro-Atlantic way if it has not already started the right word, but it has certainly continued after the 2000 elections, because of certain political circumstances that it was then, so have we forgotten that we were in power or in opposition, each time waiting for what Carla Del Ponte will say to the UN, and then whether she will receive us into Europe or not, she will open one chapter or not. After all, we know what happened in 2005 when General Gotovina was arrested because then President Sanader did not. Celebrated as a victory, that continued the path and that we got the date of the negotiations. ... This absolutely has to do with because the policy which, according to this part of the relationship, has turned to the international community Sanader from Tudjman's policy, it was very exact. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, if we remember correctly, the entire family of President Tudjman left HDZ during Sanader, right? Miroslav Tudjman was a candidate in the 2010 election for the country's president during Jadranka Kosor. So that story about Tudjman and HDZ wasn't exactly the straight and uniform thing all the time, so we remember that. As for the memorial, I remember and there was a memorial in the SDP, no one said a bad word at the time, otherwise I remember that memorial because I had to buy a suit for her, it was one expense to me, and at the end of the day when I was shopping, I was late for her. I didn't hear anyone say anything bad at the memorial, but when you mentioned that part, we remember how many presidents were at one funeral and how many were at the other, they were Ante Jelavic and it seems to me that Suleyman Demirel and there were, they wouldn't care, come on, they would care in the hall but a little less. So it's the same kind of thing, but it all comes together from today's perspective, it doesn't matter. So F. Tudjman, as it says in the explanation, says he's one of the most responsible, right? So he's the most deserved, you don't have to write one of the most deserved, it's so, it's a historical fact, so he was the first president, he won the elections every time he ran, right, what to say, if he lost, he'd feel bad, he didn't even know how to carry it in Zagreb, but well, it's on this local, it was like that. He said that we would not allow the opposition situation, it was not exactly in line with these parliamentary and other things, we had a few more of these minor statements that we could quote, but it certainly wasn't my intention to reduce because, after all, I said nicely, and that is that we have come to the situation many times to regret the former president because those who came, in the HDZ after him, are constantly far below his level, and besides, in my office, I had his picture in my office, too, so I was the last one who would be really wood and stones on him, so this was one to say, since he was once in the party, a friend review, and there he would remain. So if that's the problem today without praise, I don't think that's the problem, I don't think that everything that was doing was good and I don't think that everything that was doing was bad, we can just argue but more eventually as an academic debate, whether it's more of it or more, but the moment the HDZ wants to bring it into the day policy, then we have the right to object, so it's not, voting against not going to be against F. Tudjman but against K. Grabar Kitarović, and we have made it clear and emphasized what it is, as it is, as the reason why this law is now and by an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175302	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Final word on behalf of the motionary, Ms. Secretary of State. Josepha Rimac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175303	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. I would like to thank you on behalf of the promoter for the constructive debate and remind you once again that this final proposal of the law means establishing a high distinction of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Tudjman and I must say that we must be proud that we have witnessed this recent Croatian history that has taught us that there is no power that can conquer us while the hearts of our hearts are filled with faith in God and love for our country. Such a heart until the last moment was just the first Croatian President Dr. F. Tudjman and all Croatian defenders who gave their lives that today we have an independent and sovereign Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175304	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of this final bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda scheduled for today, we continue our work tomorrow morning at 9:30 with a set of 9 tax laws. Have a nice rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 7:33 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-27-0.u175305	Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Decorations and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 795. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representatives accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 75 for and 27 against the Law on Supplements to the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia.
