ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138673	The esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the council. I am opening the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the 11th session of HS have been received by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 11th session of HS in the proposed text. We are now moving to set the agenda for the session, with a call for the session you have also received a proposal for the agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included 3 new points under regular numbers 17, 18, 19, that is: -The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, -the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Encouraging Building and - a proposal for a law on private protection. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure will be decided on a bill proposed by the Proposer to adopt in an emergency procedure. This is point 16. of the final draft agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EC Regulation. No. 850/2004 on persistent organic pollutants with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 632. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? We'll do that later, just a little bit. [[Incursion from the Assembly: I have an observation on the agenda]] If there are no objections, I shall establish that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. Article 225(3) of the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly may be submitted in writing only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. In the absence of a written objection to points which did not contain a proposal for a agenda, this article shall be accompanied by a call for a meeting and those items shall be included in the agenda of the 12th session. Here's a colleague of the bush, you said something.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138674	Dear President, 31 opposition MPs have signed a signature to discuss our proposal for a declaration exclusively in the economic belt. You put that point today after the current morning, 3 points before and then that point, it shows that you want to move the public's focus from this important topic of expanding the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia to our part of the Adriatic. I'm asking you to be reasonable and put it on Thursday morning or be the first point after, meaning, the current morning. I think this is a very important question. I know you're in good relations with Mr. Tajani. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Croatia's Istria and Dalmatia, but I demand that this point be in one reasonable... [[Intruder: Comrade Grumo, please sit down]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138675	Comrade Grmoy, your request was entered the first day after you submitted the request, so, the first day, so the fourth point is quite a good point and it has nothing to do with what you said has nothing to do with the rules that exist in HS. So I'm extremely correct, the first day I put your point, so I reject this objection of yours. So, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established in accordance with Article. 228th century 1. Rules of Procedure. I should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner, however, since it is very long, not to read it fully, let me announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. So, tomorrow we will begin with the work, the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018, the first point was the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017 on the application of the Ombudsman, its point of discussion will be the first and second, it will be second in the agenda. Also, as for Thursday, we will make a replacement and the first item will be the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2018 and the second point of the proposal of the Private Protection Act, we have also replaced them with places. Now we're going to start on today's agenda. Here you go, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138677	Your Honor, the breach is the Rules of Procedure and the plea. So Article 142 has been injured because Minister Pejcinović Buric has not been answering my parliamentary question for months as to what is called the signator of the travel orders to the former secretary-general of the ministry by the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic in November? [[The incursion of President: Mr. Grmo.]] I repeat the persistent question with the tables, I ask for concrete answers, I don't feel like answering that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138678	Comrade Grmoy, you are very perfiduous, deliberately violating the Rules of Procedure. You had a 5-minute debate, you could discuss it, there's nothing alive about breaking the Rules of Procedure here, I've been talking about the agenda, and you get involved with something that's bothering you, you could say anything now based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure, invent any topic, you could talk about anything now, I'm giving you a warning now, here after...... Because after the third time you hurt the Rules of Procedure, you certainly deserve one warning now. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] ... By making you... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You want another warning? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here, then you get another warning and the next would be the loss of the right speech. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138681	Good morning, all colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European You received the proposal to supplement the agenda by electronic means, all of them, Article 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 1 of the proposal for a agricultural list law 2020 with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 648. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal has been included in the agenda, in accordance with the urgent procedure. And how in accordance with Article 225 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the remaining points of the Proposal for an Supplement to the Agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 12th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138682	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to suspend the debate on the Amendment Law proposal and the addition of the HBOR Act and we will join the vote. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Article 227 The rules of procedure are laid down firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the Act under points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendment? That's one. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645. 2. Proposal for an amending Act supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 643. The promoter is legislator Silvano Hrelja. Any objections? In the absence of any comments, the proposal to implement the emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items are included in the agenda as you received the information by electronic means. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we join the vote, please just welcome the members and members of the Youth Initiative for Human Rights from Zagreb who are with us today. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] Welcome. ... In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 226 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose the first addition of the agenda of the 12th session with 28 new points. [[Applause.]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents, if requested by the Proposer, and are not voted on. This is point 1 of the proposed supplement, Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on credit institutions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 660. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. The Rules of Procedure found that this legislative proposal was included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the emergency proceedings in the context of the adoption of the law under review. 2. The proposed additions, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 654. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In the absence of any comments, a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 12th session. Also, I would like to inform you that I have left out 9 points from the agenda of the 12th session, which was proposed by the Representatives' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, who no longer exists by leaving the two MPs and no longer has a proposal. A review of the items left out has been sent to you by electronic means, so 9 laws are no longer in the agenda. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138684	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the The proposal for a supplement has been submitted by electronic means. In accordance with Article 225(4), The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal for an amendment to the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 12th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138685	Thank you. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2 Rules of Procedure, I will propose the addition of the agenda of the 12th session with one new point, i.e.: a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President, the Vice-President and part of the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and (b) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the part of the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda were not available, i.e. the proposed item was included in the agenda of the 12th session. I'll also inform you that we'll discuss the above point tomorrow as the fifth item of the agenda. We are now moving to present the position of representatives' clubs, and the first is the respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, independent of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138687	Here, thank you, but now peace has come, so Col. Glasovic will be able to speak on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138688	Dear colleagues, colleagues, lots of questions, answers, we'll see, we'll analyze it all for 10 years. After the question of where we came from, on these critical issues important to the state. Here, the EU elections, even though we know this isn't an ad for the EU elections, we have this Mr Maras who advertises himself. But what about hundreds of thousands of Croats who have double citizenship? How many do they vote? We see from the exit of the Croats in BiH who are a constituent people, outside the country, outside the country's Republic of Croatia, numbers below 10,000, is not many people, and that is, of course, intentional sabotage. Speaking of which, here's Easter, another week less than eternity, when we talk about eternity, what about the law, the new citizenship law, how long are we gonna wait? We've witnessed years of sabotage, we've seen thousands of cases of unsolved citizenship and other cases in Chile alone, not to mention other consulates, bureaucratic obstacles. The best example, here's a man looking for 32 months doesn't get citizenship, has to fly, young man 26. ... only the best example of this, and the insane bureaucracy, the brain has to stat, it has to fly from western Canada to Toronto, complete the Croatian language test, then send it to Petrinjska, from Petrinjska to Črnomerac and so on in the circle. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When he gets there to the officer of one, that clerk with the seal looks at him as a suicide bomber and still has to wait and so on in the circle. Here, a man born in the suburbs of Sydney, Australia, is seeking citizenship and making little mistakes, since he was born in one, in the suburbs of Sabord, not Sydney, a mistake, a correction of that little thing must wait six months, bureaucracy. Now I know that there was resistance from the Croats of Yugoslav religion, but it's standard procedure, that sabotage has long been proven, now they've opened two other consulates, one consulate in Knights and in Livn because before all the people were stampede down to Mostar. As it will now be, but third-world countries have a lettering vote, of course again sabotage, we know that it's intentional sabotage that I mentioned, of course, from the so-called so-called. The Croats of the Yugoslav religion. Well, I would now congratulate them after the Easter, the believers there painted eggs etc., and now coming, I would congratulate these Croats of Yugoslav religion who did not celebrate Easter, but something else, coming on May 1st, that's your day, then I would congratulate you on what they called the Easter of course, atheists militants, painted eggs on May 1st, you know, first, my grandfather called them first, first of all, first of all, first of all, you'll paint eggs, then what you'll get for the 91st, wants to be sick and a hammer on the eggs, five-pointed, we don't know, but I have to congratulate you on that, it's coming from, human it's all and when, what you've got to fight for the Croatian state independent, independent Croatian state, but now you see that the red nobility has come to you've got the wheel and now you'll get the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, money from that former regime, but do not despair, on May 1st comes peas, in nature you can iron peas for free and it will in nature, of course, it will iron, you get peas and you get at the cultural level of Radu Sherbedji in Brijuni, and you can't even come there because the red nobility there flies, with how many EUR 8 per day, and you will enjoy beans, and these red chambers down there will iron by the most expensive, most expensive, orgy by Brijuni, and you've got peas in nature. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138689	Here's your colleague, Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138690	Dear colleagues I hope will not interrupt the transfer of now HRT, I know that I am a fan of the media, but I often feel like those characters of Orwell Animal Farm where they say that all animals are equal, and some are more equal than others. That's why I hope HTV, that this won't be closed, but that people can hear what I can say about 11. Election units. Yesterday we talked about the Croatian diaspora when the transfer that brings a minimum of 16.5 billion kuna was interrupted, and twice as much as unregistered, and we hear from the Ministry of this regional development, the European funds, that this has come from the beginning since we joined the EU, that we are at 14.4 billion kuna in plus, as it were. And that means that we have received these 14.4 billion kunas since joining the EU, and twice every year we get that, the minimum of that from the Croatian diaspora that is not even here. Tourism, Croatia's largest branch of the economy, will look like this season. Turkey subsidises 50% of the travel arrangements in Antalya where their tourist centre is the region and what they do with airline flights, what we do. In Germany we see, Germany, which has 85 million inhabitants a huge market for tourism, you see every 10-1 commercial on prime terms between films, soaps, competition from Greece, Turkey, Spain, Croatia, where there is a Croatian relationship is 10-1. How can I subsidise, Turkey can subsidize these, these shops, how can it? And our failed socialist system here, where are our powerful economists that we haven't been able to do it? Now here we have strawberries here, here we have strawberries that we're not, which is where the peasants went with 100 billion kuna subsidies, where that's all, thieving and first order, mate. It's an anthropological question. Because Turkey is run by national-aware people and governments, that's the problem. Antalya 40% of the region is plastics, where the peasant produces its subsidisation, he does not live from the state, as a parasite as they worked in the former state and now in this country, every honour to individuals and those who grow these strawberries down there, they do not receive garbage from others, from the EU, but only their products. There's no customs, there's no bribes, there's no bribes, there's no bribes... And that's why they're doing it down there. The Croats slowly understand the truth of what happened here and who led them to the state. We've been having these discussions all the time, and why the villagers haven't made with those 100 billion of these kunas, where they're so strong.../incomprehensible/... OPGs, bribes, corruption and that's the problem. But the Croats will understand the truth, and the truth of that solution as holy water. Again, the culture of cheating where does that come from? You can't come to Canada with a fake degree. You had it in Split, for example. One law school dean you had at law school had a fake degree. What will be the results of this season's tourist season, we'll see, but what the Turks are doing should have been some sort of example for us here at least, to see how that money is spent. And we still have a system that hasn't been built, and there's no control and surveillance system, that's the problem. This guy takes the money, plants three plums and nothing, scary. It can't be done out there because we have legal systems that work, we have law and enforcement. In the end, you would say this, this one to come to this truth and those who have studied that plan's economy, which has completely disintegrated, until we get rid of such people in the ministries, the bully and the fallen, the experiments of that called Yugoslavia, will always be like this, and we will watch only this, we will look at this kind of strawberries, and this other thing that should be produced in Slavonia is empty. Why is it empty, Slavonia? Because you drove away all the Folksdojchers who were down there in the spine of agriculture, and you brought who, those heads with the papans who were growing chickens in the piano.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138691	Thank you. We continue, Comrade Bunjac, here you are, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGE Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138692	Thank you very much Vice-President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues here while the study debates are being held throughout the morning at the Live Wall Club daily, I would like to read to you a letter of this kind, given that I now have the opportunity to speak freely. Dear Mr Branimir Bunjac, first of all I want to congratulate your family and wish you a happy Easter and wish you a lot of health and a lot of God's blessing. I am Antun Kamanjarin born in Komiža on the island of Vis where I live all the time. When I was young, I graduated from high school, but they wouldn't hire me anywhere because I wasn't politically decent. That's why I accepted vineyarding. I'm 81 years old, I'm alone, I've got a agricultural pension of $1.200,00, I can't work, I can't do it because I'm seriously ill. I've had about 200 liters of wine and 20 liters of alcohol in my tavern since I was older. I decided to sell it to tourists. This was the summer of 2017. I wrote on a piece of cardboard that I was selling, and my goal was to make about £2,000 to buy bread and medicine. This tavern is located on the periphery of Komiže. One day two people came and they introduced themselves to be customs. I told them to sit down and I took them in nicely. In a silent voice, they told me that some of the money I would sell to them and that no one would know about it, and that they should not know about it. Apparently, they asked me for a bribe. I just watched them and kept quiet. When they saw that I didn't give them bribes, they turned into wild beasts. Meanwhile, a third came, I guess, the same customs officer. They turned everything around, and the one who was the most likely was standing at the stable door, and he laughed at me all the time, enjoying that hoard like I was a criminal. I don't know how my heart lasted because I've been like a severe heart disease for the last 3 years. He was hospitalized four times in a Split hospital. I was taken by a helicopter to the hospital immediately. I could get a license to sell that alcohol with great procedures, but as the tavern should be properly arranged, I would have to spend 100,000.00 kn. I'm old and powerless, for me it's all over, I'm in a grave up to my throat, I'm stressed and I expect death every moment, as I've already written 81 years old. No matter what, strict penalties followed, they sent me a fine of £1.500,00, and then again €6.00, another €55.00 a month ago, and among other things, they threatened to spill everything on me and that I would have to bear the costs. And I didn't even know I couldn't sell it because since I've known about myself, we've always been allowed to sell it, like oil, honey and other things. God bless you and receive a lot of greetings and I wish you every good. So, you have heard such a story that has very interesting and unpleasant connotations, which is the first thing that people who are seriously ill, and who do not have drugs and bread, are harassed with beastly punishments in a humiliating way, with extreme abuse of authority and, moreover, that requires bribes to be left alone, it is our Croatian state. I call upon all competent institutions, primarily the IRS, customs, the Ministry of Finance and others to verify whether it is true that their employees are seeking bribes to forgive people's sentences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138693	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138694	The next one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, the respected representative Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138695	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. European elections, candidates flying there, buzzing in squares, villages, cities, as flies around frozen.../The speaker does not understand. You have former personnel, socialists, former self-government anarchists, Tito Jugend, etc., their successors, redesigned communists, but good. But what are they telling you? Again with smoke curtains, it's just pre-election cosmetics, which is ignored at these gatherings, two key things and in mainstream media. The first two EU resolutions one for decommunisation, lustration laws implemented by Poland, the Czech Republic, all other countries imposed by Bolshevik Satanism, Bolshevik but it was a domestic brand, it is still here, it is ignored. Second, diaspora. We have heard recently from the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds that it has come here since we joined the EU 14.5 billion kuna. Is that so? Yes, but three times as many comes here a year under an outside Croatian homeland. Why didn't we hire them to build this country, the economy, the institutions, restructure the judiciary. These people are waiting to come here, but no, we chose the people who ran the failed South economy. That's not what you're talking about. There's still people here. You have an example. Mr. Mark Franovic, who in half, man has earned a hundred lives, he has his own company, he rises at half past five in the morning, he doesn't run Monte Carlo's lifestyle, but man works, works man, people like that aren't wanted here. You have Borislav Miksic. He made you two companies here and you didn't want him to be president, we got a joke of maherra and homoopseletus mystery, we know who. In 1988, there were 1720 terminations of work and in shipyards, but you were not allowed to say strike because the strike was illegal until '89. For years, you couldn't speak that word and then what did they do to union? Shut up. And today we have no idea about labour rights. 388 thousand street workers, '88. It's not ancient history but these remains of mastodon, the one-party system are still here, it can be proven, you have empirical evidence in the Croatian economy. You remember who's going to pay me so little, no one can pay me as little as I can work. That was one of 10 orders in the former South. And then we have South Korea that took over 50% of the world's shipyard. Why? They became two generations of the fourth largest force in Asia, economic. They had less GDP than... In the '60s, where they are today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? New technology, education, law, respect for family tradition. And we have a mental set that's been destroyed, and that's the problem, all from the former South. You won't hear it from these former Yugoslavs, some sitting in the Parliament, many of them aren't here today but what we're going to say. But you shouldn't, you don't have to despair. Even though we're left with kumnism... some like... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Karma has hope, the Chinese are coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Chinese are coming and you will soon have a Kumrovac where you will be able to watch these former shots together like old times. Like Walter defends Sarajevo, Walter defends Sarajevo. You're singing that, Comrade Tito, we swear to you. You can quote the lyrics from Ma's red book, everything will be fine. But there's something good about the Chinese, and also the Chinese, of course, for corruption have prescribed, certain amounts, there's a death penalty. Shanghai Stadium 50, 60 poor people shot in the head and immediately organ transplanted. Imagine if you transplanted the organs of some of the characters from this Croatian state, if some of them got liver or heart, what would happen immediately in the exam, we know where it would go, it wouldn't go to transplant, it would go to garbage and so on. But don't despair too, you have new technologies if agriculture doesn't work now, we can always clone Milka Planinc Malado to have her come to you here and establish a system as it was in the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138696	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138697	Let's move on, now the Advocacy Club for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138698	Dear colleagues, colleagues... You say there you can do it out there later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU festival, a festival of democracy, is it so, outside of Croatia, 6 hours must fly to vote, have double citizenship, only ask for money, but this comes to an end, because the diaspora will no longer suffer chicanisation, outside of the country's Croatia. The Festival of Democracy is for some in the media, and for some total media blockade, media manipulation, how the media works in Croatia, whether they are even Croatian, media. The Croatian people, the filter, which prevents the flow of critical information and it is a filter, from the real world and the human brain, is only going through what these former journalists want, from... , their heirs and agitpropovists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all have to, we all have to look for facts-based information, not a show. We all need to establish a wake-up call, a foolization of the Croatian state and not of the Tudjmanization. An example is now a hack of media, against the Independents for Croatia. Split was expensive, full of halls, all the media were invited and no one came. And now a loon from the Evening List, says, what kind of plan and program, flag and move a bloody locksmith, so that's what you've imposed on us, you. You don't care, plan or program at all, that's none of your business. I was asked by a local media hack, said Glasovic, not interested in national security, illustration, he is interested in Glasovic. Because maybe this is the most beautiful government yet? Look at that now, here's the foolization of the Croatian state, just fun. Why hasn't someone asked so far, why isn't a strategic thinking group from the diaspora created? You've got people there, qualified, that's not there. Why don't they ask those questions? Why don't they ask questions about hard privatisation and conversion and retroactive requirements. Why haven't they been spent? And some feudals and presidents, they have heavy money out there on bank accounts. Is that selective justice? Why don't they say they've completely taken up our cultural space, these Balkan, these fools, the heads of the former system, I think we live out there in the '70s. Last century. The bank bluffs that represent us outside, they took the cultural space. Here, if we were to watch Croatian products outside, movies, read books, we would think that people in Face in general with pigs, eat from the same bowl where they make a big emergency, that's our cultural space. And who's the only one parading there? Seducets, snitches and characters, but also people who father hear who need to be heard, you won't hear anything from them, that's it, a culture of cheating, so what are you surprised about these fake diplomas now, the standard procedure in the former state was, you go to lamb, beer and there you can buy in every restaurant for 500 marks, and the same heads run by the state, the same characters, there are some doctors laughing here, and he knows how it used to work, bribes, envelopes, etc. And today it's done. Why, what our JAZU, HAZU has done, why they haven't done this so far have written the official history of World War II, but our heads are also hit by pumpkins, juzomboids, hybrids, Serbs and zinc tribes. Why isn't it done, they have 132 members? Why is there not a center for reconciliation and truth formed, as in Slovenia, where those who took away the property... The property of the 45th year and the property returns, none of it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is that, why is everybody quiet? We know why they're silent because the Republic of Croatia stayed and was, and yet this is the Ukrainian communist Caliphate, the Caliphate, and if Christ had been born in the Republic, we'd be celebrating the last breakfast, not the last dinner, but they'd have knocked him to breakfast, according to that, there'd be history... The Western world, but these people who sold themselves for Judas's pucks in 10, 20, 30 years. We shall all know who they are, and when they die, when they go over the pond, they shall be buried there in the potter's field as Judah. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138699	The club of MPs is the independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138700	Dear colleagues and colleagues, looking at these personal disabilities today, this personal currency, I would say, if we had a thorn, a speck of courage, which they have daily and if they had a purity of the spirit, as a small Mila Rončević, we would do much better to solve even faster problems in Croatia, not to fall here, on lies, delusions, and to cover up in Croatia the root of the problem, and only to deal with symptoms. Today, 8 / 45 They came in with a trologous cap, a tripod, you know that five-pointer, I'm wearing a three-horn hat, I'm fighting God, you got typhoons into the City of Zagreb, and today, after that monster, what happened over us after '45. Liberation for some juzomboids, release, because they profited well from it all and their heirs, and others got a bullet and a wire in the eight. Today we're watching... these criminal organizations, privileged liars, evil ignorants and some comedians, some Willy Matolo himself, watched, wasn't he a comedian, I don't know what he is, but keep up... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the real one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Evidence, witnesses, you only have two Srebrenicas in Macele, three in a heavy, proven, bones don't lie, but no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened to us after '45? And it's a nonstop cover-up in... To the media, this cause of everything we see today, that Croatia is the only post-Communist country that has never carried out the illustration and that fundamental three steps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, people should know what was going on. It's covered up like a snake's foot, it's covered up, like that agreement... A pact of Nazis and communists, that's not too much to talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First NKVD trained Ozna, NKVD is Russian... The police, and Ozna, the Yugoslav secret police, were working on the same pattern, cleaning, 10% of the population should be killed first, when it was done, then the memory was erased and no one had anything to do with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's because the Croats today have no idea who he is... Shagic, Judevit Jurak, who is Andrija... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who sang the claggers, who entered the Belarusian Ozna, and perhaps she could ask that minister, what's the name of the Dark One, the Dark One isn't here today, the construction industry, which charged 1700 euros per square square in Gunja up there, set up jobs, etc. She's not here today, but they are, she's a typical example of the rest of the former personnel, I think Dark Taritash. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the second step is snitching, snitching was showing, proving... regimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, some of them got involved on a party base, I got this list, they loved that country, they were texting neighbors, friends, here's some... The names, the empirical evidence, there's some here in the Parliament, the best, the lottery, the honey, that's the honey radio and one Fred, not this Fred, but there's similarities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fred, it was the third one, the kidnapping, half of Zagreb was killed, not only the microcosm of Croatia is Zagreb, you have mass graves as much as you want, it doesn't shake anyone out or kidnap anyone. This is why today in Croatia, only 5% of the land, grant and cadastre is right, because of the abduction of rationalization. Who were they killing? They killed Grandpa, he ended up in the pit by Zlatko Hasanbegovic, they stole everything and stole our other neighbor here... The road, my grandfather was alive then, his neighbor hit him, he was a dentist, fixing his teeth... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The kidnapper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the three Oznas were doing, headed by the government... Judge, and today he has, this mass murderer has a poster in this on Jarun, where he writes a sports worker, from a mass murderer to a sports employee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happens today, what happens to police prisoners, Josip Bilusic, the man, I know him, 11 years in prison, nothing, gets 3.5 thousand kuna, those who convicted him today are in power and in the judiciary. What is celebrated today in the city, where the mention of the day in Zagreb today, that all trams are decorated with flags, is it put this pea master, pea master, this, which is today marked, of course, this genocide,... is a mass murder against the Croats, but their cross is a symbol, a cross is a symbol of Christianity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the cross of these... Satanist, is a wire of eight and that butcher's apron, because with it they killed people, when they were on their knees, thousands, thousands from Slovenia to Boka Kotarska, so they wouldn't have their brains sprayed, etc. But they shall eat themselves, for they are jujumbooids; it is an autoimmune disease, like Ebola, and they shall eat their own cheeks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138701	The presentation of the position of the Advocacy Club for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138702	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we see a lot of people working on their initiative. We have an example. The parishioner at the Oscaria elementary school in Ogulin where the verb is studied, I have that calendar, they do well, our children do it, it should be standard procedure in each school. I'm giving this calendar to our vice president, Mr. Brkic, you can give it to you as what can be done, it's beautiful children, we still have tradition, it's being nurtured, it's a good thing. Here's the main theme 8.5. Bruno Esih spoke about Croatia's still ongoing occupation. The Southzomboids, the pea masters and other characters immediately appeared, I will hear these adjectives, shockingly, criminally, etc., but we know that the demons are the most savage, the demons come out and go crazy when they're telling the truth. About this, after that we saw some march, a march of the immortal Partisan squad, from there from square to square, but the only thing immortally left of that squad of Partisan pensions were their pensions, seized property, social dwellings and grant pensions, pensions they got because they lived on 3 sources of funding, German compensation, Croatian diaspora and American Western credits, here we see a picture of the Pope because they are mostly militant atheists, to them not the Trinity Council is Marks, Lenin and other characters and Stalin of course, march immortals. There was somehow a stray Russian ambassador, his Excellency Azimov, Russia, the Russians are a proud people, they cultivate tradition and faith, and perhaps he has strayed with these atheists militants who convinced him that he represents the Soviet Union, not Russia today, these Yugoslavs, etc. Here, we forgive him everything, he's a real man, like Russia is a real nation. Now, what happens is, let's do this if they spit on tens of thousands of Croatian victims and other victims of 100,000, as Serbia passed under a sickle and a hammer, you have the title of Srdjan Cvetkovic, they killed those who replaced this five-point stake by entering Belgrade in '44. The years of September killed 10,000 Belgrade citizens, the same thing repeated there. And they don't care about the juzomboids about our Serbian brothers, they only care about propaganda and agitprop. They killed more, in fact more Serbs, than the Nazis killed Kragujevec, and no one killed them, and in the 44th to 45th, they killed 75,000 Serbs, Hungarians, Germans. What about raped women, nobody's talking about it? 2 million women were raped in the area of the Red Army, and this is what these villains with the three-armed five-pointed, they don't talk about it, they keep our hot feminists quiet about it, they keep quiet about it. Now here until 77th year, sodomy, homosexuality was, there was a crime in Yugoslavia, but now I wonder if Mr. Stazic, Arsen Bauk and others that they, they were homophobias after defending that system where homosexuals closed down, it was a crime. I'm surprised what these NGOs think about gender equality when they defend that system that could only survive on a start-up, these hot democracies of ours now, it was a crime, sodomy and they defend that system. What about later, what can we say to the former descendants of the militiamen, the bailiffs, the Communist party, but about it all was written by this baroque poet Junija Palmotic, the song is called Gomnaida, and she's talking about feces and this said, "Your words are shit, they're your work," which is why we don't need to talk much more, we continued here with baroque poetry, but in action, in practice we remember a journalist who got a bucket of shit in Split, so much about a system that he could survive only on the start-up and Yugoslavs and their descendants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138703	I thank my colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138704	We continue to work with a view of clubs, or independent representatives. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.02 HOURS]] The first asked for a word as an independent representative...... Like a club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Like a club or an independent agent? ... Mr. Zeljko Glasnović, please. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, it says "independent agent," and I read what it says. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138705	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you to those who have had the endurance to stay here after a great celebration and champagne. As a result, the democracy festival, a festival of 156 thousand registered voters outside the country, half of which came from Australia to Canada, may have registered less than 156 thousand, half of which 7.5 thousand voted. As possible, you can get more of this, more people will come to the match Gracani-Markusevic than it went to the election. How do we know why that is, and those people had to fly three and five hours to the polls, yet there's no correspondence vote. Not only that, but we had problems at consulates that were reported to the DIP, one example was, people come, they drive 3 hours in Stuttgart, consulate and there see and if they have everything, neatly, that they are not on the list and they get instructions from consulates to vote for Germans, for this German option in Stuttgart. In other countries it's simple, you have the address, the one... Actually... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] JMBG, number 9, you have more than 9 numbers and you vote immediately, you prove, you are a citizen of that state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only that, it wasn't a problem in that campaign, you had a total media blockade from the mainstream media. I'm just going to give an example here, he came to the secretary of Croatia... National, national gathering, it's the Marine Le Pen party that won in France for these European elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wasn't even in the frame when the press conference was called and it was a party winner in France, what it says about our mainstream media. When we talk about the media, I'll just read to you who's out there representing us in the outside world and what are those names. Just let me read, these are the most influential media global: Deutsche Welle, correspondents: Jovan Vukosavljevic, Allgemine Zeitung, Stevo Krinokuća, Le Monde Nikola Vukobratić, Liberation known Sandy Blaznić, The Guardian Alexander Holiga, Switzerland's News Zeljko Peratović-Dildo, I don't know why he got the name Dildo and perhaps has some connotations with references to some, Associated Press the largest and oldest news agency Dusan Stojanović, El Pais Svetlana Milosavljevic, BBC Srboljub Živoinović, CNN Petar Stefanić, politics Vojislav famous Mazzocco, New York Times Dean Jović, Tv France. Ivo Goldstein, Washington Post Light Pohovski and ART Hrvoje Zovko under the pseudonym. We have, of course, Corriere della Sera Slovenska Drakulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138706	... All of it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138707	Yes, Slavenka Drakulić, Collier Delasera. And these are the people who What? .../Intruder Radin: What would be the meaning of that... [[Intruder Radin: What would be the meaning of all this?]] ?/... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they create the perception of Croatia from the outside. And I see, if you see by names of course, by ideological indication that there is no, there is no objective at all, I will not talk about portals. I'll just mention that these people create perceptions about us outside, the truth comes out. I'm not gonna talk about portals like... Report, etc., because you'd be here all day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would recommend, I would recommend to the media in Croatia at least to come to Westin on 3 June, where there will be an initiative to pass information disclosure laws, so-called. The lustration that, this is one action, the initiative of the Conrad-Adenauer Foundation and come there, don't block it. And I would call these Internet, these trolls on the Internet, I've downloaded 70 of them that get 200 kunas per head from the Faculty of Philosophy and on the further, which work, wider disinformation and distortions on the Internet, I've downloaded about 70 from my pages, let them come to Klinka Sela 8.6 at Thompson's concert, I'm waiting for you there and join the state forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138708	The next Club of Representatives is the independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Glasovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138709	Dear colleagues, colleagues, former systems and every communist had 3 foundations, and these foundations were,... They were an abolization. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first abolition of the family is like a natural community, we see today, the abolization of the faith, all the religious communities, most Christian and third abolitions of private property, we see it today, and who doesn't realize it, lives, maybe the beginning of a river or from Mars or some other planet. The surface analysis will show that this is just a sequel to what we're looking at today's former failed experiment called SFRY, it can be proven, the empirical evidence, you have 5% of the land books that are correct, the 19th century catastra. We read in the paper today, you read some land malversions every day, you read today, a man usurped 15000 m2 at the cemetery, up at Mirogoy, nothing. Here's an example of one, totally, settlement not only of justice, but of historical truth, over historical truth violence, you have Zrin, Zrin settlement, burned in 1943, Croatian settlement, it was burned by forest bandits in 1943, of the 851 inhabitants killed 291, only 16 men older than 18. Survived, the youngest victim had 15 days, 15 days. The real owners have been erased from land books, property has been confiscated and it is forbidden to return these people to this day, the country has been given to someone else, another minority whose representatives are sitting here today in this HS. The action was launched, that action to bring Zrina back and the return of their land to Zrin was launched by the Croatian Syllabic Initiative, whose president is Slavica Bučko. For months now, they have been looking for an answer to who is responsible for the return of those people, the return of property, the restitution, whether BUSKOK, dudes, local authorities, the Trust Fund for the Compensation of Assets, so far has no answer to these questions. I'll just point out that Zrin is just a microcosm of Croatian settlements that have experienced the same fate in Lika, for example. and other places and that people can go back to their grandfathers, which is theirs. If I wasn't talking about a German minority that's completely gone missing in that former state, no one's talking about it, we're just spinning around in circles. Slovenia has launched the return of illegally seized property, it has and the commission of 60,000 Slavena will get back violently seized property. What about Croatia? But not the comrades of all governments have blocked this information from the end of the Homeland War to this day, the debates in the Parliament, of course in accordance with circles in Croatian, not Croatian media, not only have they erased our collective memory, that they erased the truth but have wiped out the private property that is the foundation of every normal state. And we're talking about democracy today. Comrades and friends, some of whom I saw yesterday at the celebration, when I saw them, today I am sick with the smell of their souls. That's what I'm going to mention, it was supposed to put a clutch on the nostril for those characters of someone I saw yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138710	Representatives' club Independent for Croatia also reported for a statement of view. Representative Zeljko Glasnovic will speak for them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138711	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Access information. What is allowed in the media, what is not allowed in the media? Is the fundamental human right, the right to the truth? Why does it keep blocking in the mainstream media? For example, I spoke last week, the secretary of the party who brought 10 million votes to France for the EU elections, beat the elections and the EU parliament, no one spoke to them in Croatia. It's a media blockade. Here's another example. The Croatian Orthodox Church holds a symposium in Rijeka, no one comes from the mainstream media again. In the Treasury of Croatian Science in the State Archives, the promotion of the book of Stjepan Loza, a full treasurery there, this, things of the reading room, hundreds of people topics of ideology and propaganda of the Serbian genocide over the Croats, the cause and source of this all by the mainstream media none. And... does not say that someone is waging a psychological war against Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's that? When I read that report briefly, I received posttraumatic stress. Hotel Westin two days ago, the Association of widows of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War, the Symposium on opening archives and data protection, asked the Government for an answer, the Advocate General, the Parliament so far, no answer. The round table was organised by the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, which is their third project, which deals with lustration laws, which is a taboo topic in Croatia, there is no answer. But the cause of all these social anomalies lies in our roots. So that's where the people who worked for KOS, in this Parliament, the people who were co-workers of the marriage, some of them beat us in the Homeland War. And today they're running some committees, and they're keeping quiet about it. It's of course in the mainstream media all silenced. Poland, Poland has established the Institute of Memories and Resolutions for the Disclosure of Information. And what information? The origin of the property, the origin of the property, where the money came from, you had a bike now you have five apartments. Tito Jugend, ex-SCOY-Evies, these unions, etc., not to speak. Well, Poland has experienced, not just economic growth, but moral and legal boom. And where are we? Where we are, where we were in the early '80s because Croatia is run by unlustrated personnel and their successors and all of this is being kept silent in the mainstream media. And who's the target when you say this? You're a target, black propaganda, slander campaign, not to mention how many hybrid trolls you have, not only in the mainstream media, but on the internet that are harassing and blocking all of this in the mainstream media. Only Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia have not brought these, have not implemented those laws. And it's totally preventing... The remains of the former regime, some sitting here today, and we're being played by Democrats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here they are, they didn't run outside, their sons and daughters, they created another generation of emigrants, they never saw the shovel, but here they are with us playing cosmopolitans and Democrats. They tried to stop that law change, Perkovic, Mustac, remember that? That's the blockade, and it's going on today. The freedom of the media in Croatia is just one illusion, an illusion and I would say about the rebranding of Croatia, I would suggest that Pamela Andersen come here to the stage from Baywatch, from the rescue service and let her pose with Mr. Manulić, there together, it would be a good poster, welcome, welcome to Ubodland.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138712	Mr. Željko Glasnović will present the position of the Independent Club for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138713	Dear colleagues, colleagues who are here, we've talked a little bit about agricultural land, let's talk a little bit about agriculture. What is the strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia in the last 25 years?? What have you spent 100 billion kuna on in agriculture, where are these results? And some iron on Glasnovic, but Glasnovic was not in power. Any left, right wing of the party, 100 billion kuna spent. As far as the results are concerned, I could say freely that all these ministers should be in jail by now like these oiled-up oilheads. They're also supposed to put these fensium tractors in jail, fensium tractors, what did they spend their money on? Here they gave incentives to people to plant cultures that had a state-owned, state-owned incentive. Where are the other exotic fruits, vegetables? You can send it to Italy right away and you can sell it right away. Does the Ministry, today, have agriculture at least some... Development of the agricultural strategy? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much is invested in fruit processing facilities, vegetables? How much is the storage of these products? What are we talking about here? Fish farms, how much danger is fish farms? In some places on a global scale, fish farms are cheaper than these traditional, for pigs and for cattle. I'm looking for questions about those answers. New markets are opening, where are the new markets? Africa, the Far East, people come here. What's new technology, robotics, biometrics, sensors? You have global companies like Agrorobiotics, they work at that level, on a higher level they're up, and we're still here at the time of collectiveization, before Stalin's agricultural policy that advocates some of them sitting here on my left. And what are we gonna do about it, what? So you have land books, they're not arranged, you have a 19th-century cadastre, it's your fault, these tractors fandy over there and your hero Ali Sirotanović there, who's been loading there, it's yours, your national hero, and there's yours, Bernardic was sitting here, Mr Bernardic, and he praises the 45th-year collectiveization, and you're going to talk about agriculture. Well, there's one joke, I'd like to make it easy for you a little day today, says Russia has Vladimir Putin, Dalibor Sincic has Vladimir Palfi, so you have, we have here, Russia has Stalin, we have Davor Bernardic has, who advocates the 45-year collectiveization, it's all the same. Remember when you sang what “we will plant grain from the sky, let hungry England and America watch”, and Slavonia is empty, and you are here in power from 45, left, right wing, and where is this grain? People walk out of here when they see your heads, that's why they're going to Ireland, because they slipped you. And now here's the future, the innovation, here's the young man Company Matijević, making the most quality bee poison, looking for a buyer, but he can't come to a buyer, what's this Ministry of Agriculture gonna do? Here, product one here extraordinary, that young man does, and nonstop talking about the matre young, educated, and it's just one mat to keep your sync and buttocks, you don't care about the Croats here, you proved it by working and your ties to the agricultural mafia, it would have long solved those land books, and we're back in the 19th. And as long as we're ruled by the rollers of the communists and where more importantly in the state that it doesn't matter what you know, but who you know, that's how it will be until we get rid of you, and maybe the worst scenario, this is the same joke, don't interrupt me, maybe the worst scenario here would be the one... In the '70s. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138714	I want to see this box, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138715	So you need a product?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138716	A box to see. Yeah, me, me, let me see...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138717	Here, I give you... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138718	No, no, you have, you have, you have a warning for propaganda, economic propaganda from this pay phone. Here's a warning. Mr. Glasnović, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138719	And another censorship...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138720	You have a second warning because you have abused, abused this pay phone, two warnings from Mr. Glasovic. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, first I thought something that might cheer you up a little bit and make you laugh because this one, but in the end, 238 was hurt. Mr. Glasnovic mentioned a military junta in South America that killed thousands and thousands of people as a solution to the Republic of Croatia. You didn't react to that at all. So, talking like that about your political opponents is an outcry of hate, intolerance and an invitation to violence, so, I'm asking you to be in the future. Yes [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're reacting to that in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138722	Thank you very much. The third warning would mean getting out of HS, and I've never done it in my life.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138723	So you killed half a billion people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138724	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138725	The next Club of Representatives is the one independent of Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Glasovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138726	Dear colleagues, after today's debate, I have only one question, is a certain part of the Croats, politicians, academics, journalists, are they vaccinated against the truth? Today we've been listening to this debate about land books, but why is it blocking that truth in... The media. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth has no ideological sign. We were listening today about the kidnapped country of World War II, it was never returned, Mr. Culej, Mr. Zekanovic, we talked about the kidnapped property, never returned, did Glasnović write resolution 1096 about facing the past, in fact about the decommissioning of the former system, the remains of the former system, but someone else wrote it. Where's the field trip? It's a current question, not a question of the past. I'm just going to give you one example of compensation, which doesn't go public at all, and these people are never going to be compensated, they were victims of pure genocide, it's a German minority who disappeared here by 1948, half a million of them disappeared, 66,000 women, children, old people in camps. These Germans have been taken away from 3,000 km2 of land that will never be returned. Of the 100,000 that were in Slavonia, these Germans had stayed up, what would have been with Slovenia, were the most valuable minority, the village of Germans had 1905 street lighting, they were taken away by hundreds of thousands of agricultural tools, tens of thousands of farms, crafts, this property today worth 20, 20, to 20 billion dollars is an estimate of that property. You have a return of property, 135 municipal goods asked for the return of the Jewish community, they got 10%, and they didn't get it back. What about tens of thousands of Croats? You have 20 thousand Croats have received a return, a restitution for seized property, and each has received $15,000 per head for land and buildings in the center of Zagreb that are worth millions and millions of kuna today. Is that justice? And these other Croats who have been killed, driven away, and here today hide some of this truth, the cause of the problem today, i.e. This is Croatia's legal and moral problem today, not yesterday, some real excuses, live in a culture of denial and justify the former one-party criminal regime. Some sit here, some peasants, God forbid. I think Radic is spinning in the grave. It's for me and such similar moral criminals. What do you got? You have, for example, heard words today as a commission for usurpation, military-punished courts were running around Zagreb, led by a head of OZNA, Vlado Ranogajac, head of OZNA. They were killing people to take away their property. He's got a poster there today as a sports employee on Jarun. That Chief OZNA. And that's where the sports employee writes. People were killed and then ex post facto after the murder was tried. We just know why. It's a clean robbery. Speaking of these land books today. Where are the control mechanisms? Did it take us 30 years to figure out, if there's no minimum level of control on the ground, in the county, in the cities, where they've been harassing these national-aware criminals. You have a case where the homeless took the card and bought someone else's land with his ID. This is unimaginable in Western some states that are founded on law. If you must obey the law, you do not have to follow the legislator quickly. And some of these legislators today live in other people's apartments in the center of Zagreb, the most exclusive neighborhoods, and we talk about justice, and we have no word from the lustration. Here and until that happens, there will be no catharsis or social peace that has been bought for half a century.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138727	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138728	Let's go to 4. Representatives' club Independent for Croatia and respected counterpart Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138729	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the key word this morning is not only drinking water, but how we manage in Croatia with resources, water resources. 40% of the world's population suffers from water shortages, thousands of children, most children die daily from polluted water, and we all say for years that water is a strategic resource. And how do we treat our resources in Croatia with water? We heard about the concessions this morning, we know now that Jamnica, the source of Jamnica until 2029, was given to a Dutch company that is being drained until then, according to some data, 280 million liters of water, also sold to the source of Cetina, was also given in concession to the American company for 50 years. We heard that Slovenia put water under state administration. And whatever the Slovenes are and the best part got away there in '45. in Korushka and they still have some kind of national consciousness and here we see what's going on and we talk about water and strategic resources. 90% of the population of Croatia is connected to the water line, a water network but less than 30 minutes from Split you have villages in Dalmatia up in a mountain with no water. They live as they lived there 100 years ago, where they carried water on their backs from the spring. And 50% of Croats are connected to the sewerage, which is higher worrying information because we know what's going on on the Adriatic coast when these septic pits are illegally empty where it's going, we know where it's going, into the sea. What does Croatian water do with the money it receives? We heard that about a year ago they announced 35 water management projects worth about 1.7 billion euros from the Sava dam from Dracenovac to Nova Gradiška. But a year ago, I was saying that hundreds, hundreds of hydropower plants are being built on the Balkan Peninsula, and what consequences this will have on Croatia, the environment and the entire region when it comes to water. The biggest problem, the worrying problem is the loss, the loss of 50% of water through an outdated system and an outdated network. That's what you've been talking about for years, and what's been done about it? How much water do we lose today? Growth at global level will increase here in the coming years by 2.3% every year since the 1980s, increase will be 50% for the general use and 400% for the industry. Where are we? What about Dalmatia, where there is a problem with water, collecting rainwater, using water for other things, you have places on the ground where water is filtered twice for agriculture and other shops, how we, and where control mechanisms are, how many people are connected illegally to the water supply. We've got a crease down there that's stopped in Mosor, stopped the whole village from supplying water. That means we have a lot of experts, today there's going to be a conversation, a longer discussion about water management, about the law, but we have a lot of experts, I'd say they're like a sex therapist who knows all the love positions but never had a girlfriend, and in fact has a rubber doll for a mistress. These are the strategists of the salon, without control and control, none of these water managements will be done properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138730	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. Based on an article. We're moving 249a to take a stand on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not present. On behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138731	Dear colleagues and colleagues who stayed. Two protests today in front of the Parliament, one bitter worker from Meiso d.d. Goric from Međimurje, wanted to be replaced by their director, Snježana Dominic, who did a good job, the second term expired, and now it looks like the company is before bankruptcy, the CERP owns 80% of the shares, people may be on the street, asking for intervention from the Ministry of Finance, he was also called by other ministries. At least this mayor Posavac reported, the situation is uncertain, of course, the old Croatian story. That's where some princes of the Dripish stole the money, some ended up in jail. One Miroslav Luksha, 6 months of Zvonimir Horvat for a year, standard procedure and the state should see that these people do not stay on the street. The second protest, the school's book, scary, that I've been reading some passages from this booklet. Whoever picks that reads, they're 14-year-olds. You have a book called the Norwegian Forest where the 31st anniversary of a teacher actually describes how she was raped by a 13-year-old, super, 14-year-old kid. Black mother country, paedophile shops, football coach rapes an old man for 10 years, and there he describes as erasing his penis excrement, great. An angel in the asphalt, some other untalented critters, this one speaks of a girl cut with a chain saw, defenders, meat-fishing from dead Chetniks, etc. So what do we wonder? We're surprised here. These heads belong to a psychiatric or federal prison there, Karakas, Matanic, cultural space, who took over the cultural space in Croatia. Kino Lika, a woman in general with a pig, who are they trying to shock? Who are these characters written for, these genetic anarchists and these employees of Frankfurt school? That's scary. It's just one imitation of an organic decade that appears in the West, they think they're some sort of, they imagine themselves to be some kind of avant-garde, and they're actually self-loving and moral freaks without talent and ordinary critters, not even for.../incomprehensible/... stories. I wonder, who chooses that, it's scary who chooses these titles to read children for 14 years. I'd think it's people, not only are moral freaks, but I'd say they're mental coprophases, we should study it, and who allows it is a moral crime against children, an educational system, and it needs to end and that inappropriate lecture.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138732	I thank my colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138733	We're going to another debate. Club Independent for Croatia, esteemed colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138734	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Every day we witness a new phenomenon of corruption in local self-government, there county, higher levels. The greatest challenge of this century, not just with us, will be globally formed by the states. What these countries will look like, what a state apparatus will look like. To make the states modern and efficient. We have a state bureaucratic apparatus with more clerks than he had... during Romania there, cowardice there in Romania, under the communist regime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since law enforcement we are 35 of 38 countries when it comes to law enforcement. For years, we have been talking about a comprehensive public administration reform. What are we waiting for? What about the system of estimating the responsibilities of staff working in these institutions, administrations. We remember the tax administration, the tax administration scandal, corruption, HZ, Sisak roads, and now we have a problem in Virovitica, a problem in Kopački rit, so of course you have social frustration when they see these cases not being solved and all this is going too slowly. What about equality of prescribed laws, you have prescribed laws and in practice failures. You have in some countries, you have a five-year loss actually incarceration for officials involved in corruption and loss of pension. Simple, simple law, simple implementation. Croatia has 19 countries' data for bank accounts abroad, what is waiting for? Where's the money? What about the grey economy, which is double the standard in Europe, is twice as standard as the gray economy in Europe. What about the hundreds of millions of euros we lose every year at illegal gambling? How can this go unpunished? And taboo topics are, of course, this index of corruption, perceptions in Europe, and at the bottom are all the former communist countries except for one which is Greece, which remains on the Balkan gourds, you have EUROSTAT, biggest defaults, not paid to workers, no taxes, etc. According to some data, Croatia and Greece, taboo topics and what to expect when the former system has brought out morally maimed persons and today you have people sitting in the Parliament here, who propose the Law on the Origin of Property, who defends the system, which has been depraved in themselves, so what I expect here, there are these people. We saw the Law on Land Books, that 5% of land books were properly recorded and what was the root of it all? And the root and solution is always at the source. And what's the source of that, that we haven't gotten out of this one party system yet that some are defending this system here today, and what can we expect further? That's total irony. In some countries, you have laws, for example. Sheriatic corruption law, right hand goes. Imagine what it would look like to vote in the Zagreb Assembly, in the Parliament when the right hand goes, it was done with an axe, with a sword, now it's done with a surgical procedure in Saudi Arabia, if we voted here, perhaps in the assembly of Zagreb and local self-government, just to raise the legs there, etc. You've got corruption in China and the Chinese are coming here and everyone's licking themselves with the Chinese so great, our brothers from the communist country are coming and there you have for a certain part of the thieving, you've got a death sentence, Shanghai... An eight wire, a bullet to the head, organ transplant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And some are already ready for organ transplants in China, of course, and here you have people... It remains the same mental circuit, maybe the brains can transplant there, not talk about the livers, what would be there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138735	The third debate of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138736	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will speak of the unbearable ease of making public promises by our ministers. Namely, if you remember when you co-ordinated your pension in September last year, the coordination was 2.7%, Minister Pavić because tens of thousands of people had been given 20, 30 kn more per month because they had become bonds to pay for the supplemental health insurance policy, he promised because of such a large number of people that the problem would be resolved very quickly along with Minister Kujundzic, so in September of last year, a public promise fell to what should be asked by the parliamentary representatives to deposit it with the public notary to sign it, to verify such a promise or should be made in front of people and people, we cannot or do not know how or what we will do? Why am I saying this today? So because of the 1.7th basis of the Law on Amendments and Retirements of the Pension Insurance Act, of the 1.7 with payment in August, there is an increase in pensions of 3.13% and again there will be many tens of thousands of citizens who will not change because of the concessions from supplementary health insurance which are older than 2004, amounting to 1516 per member of the family, respectively, if the person lives as alone, so 15 years have not changed, and again more than tens of thousands of citizens will get 50 and lose 70 kn per month. It is the lowest pensions that are averaged somewhere at a level of 1600 kn and the largest number of pensions are included in that category. I remind you colleagues and colleagues, that Minister Pavić, when defending the law here in his second reading, said that this 3.13% increase in the lowest pensions is due to the social sensitivity of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the intention to help the most socially vulnerable. And now see what kind of help that's gonna be for tens of thousands of people. I give you 50, I take 70, or I won't take 70 if you don't get an extra health insurance policy, but then you're gonna have to when you come to the hospital or for a specialist examination to pay for the participation. It's very simple. Don't save this country on big taps where it leaks, this country saves on small and poor citizens so I publicly protest such an unbearable ease of making promises that someone will solve something and not solve it, not for months and almost a year. I also publicly protest because of the ease of making a promise that we will make a request for European money to install elevators into multi-story residential buildings, I did not notice that the minister of the stinger sent this request to the European Commission, at least I did not notice in public, but it sounds nice to make and keep citizens in false, false promises and false hopes. What matters is that they're in false promises and false hopes as they vote, and then it doesn't matter. Such practice should forever be stopped in this Croatian society even though I am fat aware that although we have been hard to get state and bloody, it will be much harder to create a fair, social, socially just society. Just so you know, on Friday, on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, my law was introduced by an emergency procedure that discusses increasing the censorship for additional health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138737	Let's move on, Mr. Zeljko Glasnović in front of the Independent Club for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138738	Dear colleagues, colleagues this morning have been called a press conference on the matter of national security, of course no one has come, it has less to do with my relationships with the media than with another word, and that word is censorship. Some things are taboo topics in Croatian media space. Of course, internal threats were discussed, such as corruption, weak institutions, detachment of the south from the north, not only at ideological this level but at other levels, were discussed about the RBA group and money outside, The Hague group of money outside, foreign accounts, and we primarily talked about the candidates of people running for state functions and in public life. Do you need a security check for these people here? Of course you should. What is in the archives of Serbia and BIA, their BIA below, is this agency, the news agency in Serbia, we know that a collection of microfilms down there, a large collection of microfilms and that the entire microfilm party left the Cube in May 90th, went to Belgrade. This means that some people on that list, microfilm, are co-workers, that they are a threat to national security. In this House, such persons were spoken of, Mr. Culey held a press conference a few months ago on a matter of a person sitting in the Parliament, code name Odysseus, the media totally ignored him. I also have documents that, of course, are a matter of national security because the moles remain, in England moles from the Soviet Union haven't been discovered until 60 years, that's 30 after they've been hired. I hold in my hand a document saying that the secret service of the BiH Army has infiltrated the Croatian Army and our other layers of society, and I am handing this document over to our Vice President for review, so you don't have to return it. I have other documents, e.g. where some journalists worked for AIDS. And AIDS is a documentation research agency, which is SOA, SIS, CIA BiH. That means that some journalists deliberately placed misinformation from enemies into the media, is that a crime? A rhetorical question. And we know the code name, I have the name, the file of that man, the code name Kvarner, too. They infiltrated not only the judicial and these executive authorities but they infiltrated religious communities as well. Third document, code name of Secretary who proves that all Croatian, all Croatian in the diaspora organization were infiltrated by UDBA. That's the current question today, these people are still here. We have an example. One gentleman, code name Secretary responsible for what 6 Croats received 15 years of detention set up by UDBA that they tried to poison the water line in Sydney. There was no restitution, you have exactly who he was sending documents to, who he was working with in the Australian police, that's all there is, that's not interested in the mysteries of the media in Croatia because we know which one of these media mysteries has been working for today. You have in France, code name Pierre, infiltrated the HOP, if he knows anything about it, Mr. President Stjepan Mesic, there he was at the same time. You have in Canada, you remember the betrayal of Antun Kikas, in his close proximity he had two men who ratted him out and we remember what happened to those weapons that came here from Africa and what was on Dance, those are the current questions because treason doesn't get old, like murder. Here you have Canada again, infiltrated the Croatian state movement, code name Luka etc. You have at the highest levels of women who studied at Sorbonne, Sorbonne studied, people chose not only by loyalty to this regime but by education, etc., they can read another 3 years here. The trust of the diaspora, now one has run, I think Mr Milanovic's name is, remember Lex Perkovic? And more charges will come here for another murder in Germany. These are current issues, these are crimes against the Republic of Croatia, which are based on Article 347, and we know what that is, telling secrets is 3 years, more advantageous, these people have been blackmailed by some 10 years in prison, where is the reaction of the media and the official authorities?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138739	We will move to the conclusion of the club's position on the basis of Article 249a of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138740	Dear colleagues, how, some of them stayed today, we remember today the Belgrade Assembly, I have 3.4 parties coming to me every day, but when you take these people, when you walk from here to Ban Jelačić Square, you have to open your eyes a little bit, and we all need to go down to that tactical level where the battle is being fought for the Croatian state. Where does this social frustration come from? You have taxi drivers, you don't have the same standards. One... They drive taxis, tariffs are lower and others have special rates where tariffs shake like you're somewhere in America, in New York you have tourist guides, I watch them every day and every day I get new attacks of post-traumatic stress because some speak English like that Tonto, that movie Lonely Avenger, Western, terror, there's no standard of any, of course, some honest end course, come up some characters and take away their job, there's no standard but why, not just at that tactical level, you have a cover-up of the cause of the present state, and this is all one smoke curtain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where the sectarians, not the parties, are sitting in this House, there were sectarians, some parties are falling apart, sectarians, they're not parties. You've got covered genetic anarchists, south-centralists and it's just a smoke screen, it doesn't have a "d" of democracy, it's an acting one, they talk about topics, from archaeology to zoology, about... They're talking about digitisation, robotics and actually the mental set has never changed, but I'm wondering this, if the policy is about human policy, how can these same people from the former system modernize the Croatian state today, that's where they sit today, this is just a continuation of the former state, that's what I said 50 times here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you expect from these people who can't change the mental circuit, you have one Hindu... The saying says, "For the first 30 years, a man creates his habits, the next 30 create him," how can you expect people who have buried their careers in UDBA, the Communist Party and other systems, to modernize our country today, they can't do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't do that, of course. Today, of course, we stand in the position of Belgrade's victims carefully, when we stand in the spotlight, it's not an ideological question for dozens of murders from UDBA, the political assassinations of Croats outside? That's what I was talking about yesterday and it was blocked by the mainstream media, which, of course, they don't care, they don't care that the intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia was pierced like Swiss cheese and that... The states of the military service of other countries, they don't care, no one came yesterday, they're interested in a candidate coming from Glavica, a small Moscow, when a child is born, there are some waves, he immediately got his name, if the male was Lenin and Stalin, today they're called Stanko and Lenko, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a character comes and he'll modernise the state, he can't rehabilitate himself, how will he for the state? Here, if we have to obey the laws, first we have to obey the legislators. What system rules here, the legal system? That's what I said 30 times. If all our people are from the former system, how will they introduce new norms, simple laws and mechanisms to implement these laws, a rhetorical question. We have, of course, saints in the Catholic Church, my favorite, the real man, not much in Croatia, Saint Thomas Morko lost his head for principle and the saints here are of course Mr Machiavelli, the one from the 15th century, the goal justifies the means and there is all ok and the main motto too you have one Satanist, Aleister Crowley who said this, there is the law in Croatia, on the strategic... The law level does whatever you want without consequences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a recent hero from the ruling party who I don't know has a million-dollar real estate, and they run the state, there's nothing there. For the sake of this social frustration and my slight post-traumatic stress, I can announce here that I am seriously thinking about running for president of the state and I'm going to move them all with an iron broom, if anything, I'm going to get at least five minutes at... HTV on Open Close. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138741	We're going to five hearings. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović, Advocacy Club independent of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138742	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we know that some topics in Croatia are taboo topics for the media, it is not transmitted, most moral-ethic issues, anthropological issues and this prevents this information from spreading outside, we still have this government still homojugoslavnikus, now one of me has just spoken, this mental set is the same. What about individual responsibility, it's the lever of every healthy society? Where are the laws? Every law and punishment is a rematch of society to the perpetrator. You kill someone, you go to an electric chair or somewhere else. You steal back what you've done. Simple. What are these ecofeminists, etc.? They used to keep quiet about black spots on the Adriatic coast, from Rijeka to Omis the most beautiful bays were polluted. You've got 110,000 of these asbestos plates in Karlovac alone, 1,000 meters of gravel you have radioactive from the former system you have there in Kambelovac. They built in the most beautiful coves the grey industry, and the mastodons all failed and where they were ecophemists. And what's going on today? We have to cut to '25. Year this municipal waste, as much as 50%, one Dane 1% of this dumps its waste, ends up on municipal waste in garbage, average Croat 78%. What's going on here? If we can't force ourselves into individual responsibility, how are we going to force others to take responsibility? Here in Bucharest last year was the summit of the Balkan Petroleum Energy Summit, 8 will be now October 10th in Montenegro. What's recorded there is nothing we've heard about this data, about the pollution of the Adriatic. You have points in the Adriatic, there in the Central Adriatic oil stains from 9 to 108 km long, 6 oil stains are in ZERP, in our ZERP. What about international shipping is the 6 biggest contaminants, it's being dumped at night, where our countermeasures are, where that garbage that comes out here every year to Mljet, Dubrovnik from dysfunctional states that are more I would say mafia states, they look more like Honduras, Guatemala and this Alvador than functional states. So much for environmental pollution. What about metal pollution? Here, Statehood Day, so we've been looking up at Pantovack for 30 years, the head of a former UN criminal organisation formed by the NKVD, the secret police of Stalinov and Leninov, watching DJ Manolic up there, plays DJ Manolić every year and other characters, nothing. Well, we are sick people, I would, you know, have those cheese days, dance days, we need one day of Croatian masochism. Here's the 6th month who remembers Ljudevit Jurak, a pathologist, a man with an international commission going to Ukraine in '43. In the years, they made a record of 2,000 killed by these Ukrainian peasants, the Katyn Forest, the typhoids of '45. in Zagreb he will not withdraw his report, they will kill him, and he who was killed by Vlado Ranogajac, the head of the criminal court in Zagreb, and later he was president of the Football Federation, he may well have managed today, today in the Croatian Football Federation, Vlado Ranogajec who shot 100 people around Zagreb, he has a record on Jarun, Jarun writes a sports worker, and Ljudevit Jurak has a record as a victim of the regime on Gundulić's street. I don't know what else to say, first we celebrated the absence of these uprisings, now we're going to have another masochistic uprising, a Chetnik party in Serbs to celebrate. What do we have to look for when we celebrate the slaughter of our own people? It's not an ideological question, it's a question of this environmental mind and what to say, but we need to understand that these juzomboids they can't change their mental composition. You don't have to argue with them at all because they've proven they're incorrigible, they can't rehabilitate, they're like pedophiles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138743	We are now going to the Independent Club for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138744	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, it has been many years since the EU formed, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, if anyone is making an analysis to see which model for us is closest to this model and what countries are successful. We must not compare ourselves with Western countries if we weren't there, we were in the Balkans and under one party satrapi, and that mental assembly is still here. We heard today Mr. Scybol as the River looks, and we have a population, most of us may be London, Berlin, only Berlin has one mayor, and we have thousands of fel marshals down there, each having their own private feed looks. I'd like to maybe look up, not to those former ones, actually some other trabant economies that are successful. Poland is the sixth largest economy in the EU, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, GDP has increased by 176%, it has grown. They got rid of these mastadones, the shipyards because they realized that technology was obsolete, and we're building ships here, for 32 million, for example, EUR, and we're selling for 22 million to buy social and social peace, and that all happened before in the former state, and that country has failed and lived in 3 sources of financing, German compensation, gaster money and loans mostly from the West, and we imitate that failed economy and we wonder why we're so dibs today. Poland also took advantage of its geostrategic position because it exports 80% of its imports, exports actually go to the European market. Poland gave the most workers in the EU, I think. If you want a plumber in London, you need to know Polish, there they are, and there they will stay and after Brexit. But they're not whining, the demographic monster, they're working. Why are they successful? I said that before, they don't mimic former failed systems like we do here. Secondly, their education model is successful. They don't have millions of economists,... Politologists, sociologists rather than work on crafts, and they are somewhere placed 30 out of 157 countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, foreign direct investment. There's an appropriate climate. What are we talking about here? They made investments in 2016 worth $186 billion for 2016 alone, and the increase in 2017 is 10%. And why is that? Because in Poland, all segments of so-called The lustration and again, every day we hear a mantra here about the past. So we live in the past. We live by the pattern of the old model. That's what a gentleman here in Istria said, so you're imitating that former failed system and you're moaning about why we're where we are. The second thing is that Poland is not an EU sage. Poland refused that proposal that they, no one interfered with the Polish judiciary. Whoever was a judge in the former state, they removed not only that, but they tried those judges who condemned people for three, four years for reading the newspaper. And that's the right thing to do, and with us, everything's done in the opposite direction. Our judges are mostly from the former system. And we're surprised. And that's where the hidden antifas are sitting, the people who are... We have the same thing we had 30 years ago, just new clothes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing, whoever graduated from the diplomatic school in Moscow because Russia was an enemy for centuries in Poland, they removed from diplomatic circles. So we got an ex-Yugodiplomation. We have more honorable consulates than China and nothing. What about economic diplomacy? We know where we are. I won't talk about the worldview, I've talked about it before, it's for some dogs and themes, and the Poles have won a cultural war. They're Catholics, they're not ashamed to say they're against abortion and that the penis has no place in a man's digestive tract.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138745	On behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, respected counterpart Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138746	Dear colleagues, colleagues of the sad news from Mostar, the bridge aluminum is about to be shut down, if production is stopped there will be more damage, 10 million euros will still be thrown into the wind, as production there depends on the supply of electricity. What happens to 900 workers, 12% of the shares are held by this Aluminium is held by the Republic of Croatia, 44% of the BiH government and the rest of the 40th and some percent are held by these shareholders, etc. What's it gonna be? We've seen the Sibenik TLM that depends on aluminium longer, for many years there has been solved successfully by that bankruptcy, they have a new owner and nearly 500 jobs have been saved, but I would only say that the aluminum mirror of this country is now not working at all. It's one parade of republics, as well as a picture of the former Socialist Republic, there unemployment was in that former South, that republic 35-40% of BiH, today it's more than 20% plus that nobody knows because there's a gray economy, there's only this whole industry has failed because it's out of date, it couldn't be maintained, there's only working consumption. We have bureaucracy, the most complex electoral system in mankind's history I think and I would say that there the authority of the emperor stops at the village fence. How long will it be, what will it be? 50% of GDP in that country, which is a symptom of all the former states in the former system communist, the state apparatus is being spent 50% of GDP on the state apparatus. BiH has the worst business environment in this part of Europe, not to mention transport networks. There privates are real heroes, not politicians, but privates who can work in such a business environment. There are these brave people, but every day they face growing challenges, high taxes, etc. How do you stop that negativity spiral? How long will this take place until the social implosion of that state comes, and the parade of the Republic? 2016 The International Monetary Fund refused this loan granted to that state because they could not meet any obligations. There the government functions like these in Guatemala, here military junte, there's nothing known, there's no telling who's drinking, who's paying. What can be done? Of course, he must... integration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the state will survive as a state. BiH's membership in the world trade organisation should also be accelerated. Of course, it's about... public administration reform because it's unsustainable for 50% of people to work there in a state apparatus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have in Croatia so-called program... which supports the EU, they pay, we have the plan drawn up by 2022, could help BiH, and could also help at an economic, macroeconomic level to open jobs there because they are free to invest in infrastructure projects if people are out of work, everyone will go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Free and schooling, etc. There is one black propaganda led by Croats in BiH, and every year in a hundred million euros with Croats, trade in Croats in BiH, and of course, we must not forget these people, but there has been some new ultra-conservative form of Islam, how to solve the problem with aluminium, if Saudi Arabia can invest tens of millions of dollars, if Dubai can invest, Dubai, two billion euros in tourist settlements, we have there 2,000 were, hotels and 2 hospitals, etc., can certainly solve these Sunni states, they may be able to solve the problem with aluminum. That these people don't lose their jobs. A new owner can be found. There is no time, but we need to take care of culture, but neither burek nor carpets nor gangs nor geese will save BiH unless we have a functioning state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138747	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138748	Here's a colleague of Glasnović's, you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138749	When you say so, I'm ready. My colleagues and colleagues here I must commend the Board of Appeals and Presentations to the Croatian Assembly they receive thousands of items from each year almost, people complain to the majority about the legal system, not to speak and phone calls again the problem, the legal system dispute of the legal system, unresolved property legal relations that prove that we did not live in medieval darkness but in one Stalinist darkness that took away private property, killed hundreds of thousands of people and we talk about Nikola, no one is talking about hundreds of churches destroyed in the Homeland War, nor is it saying, I was in Gospić when you talk about this monument, when the whole Gospić was bombed, when there was no glass left in the city, in the center of town, in shops, churches and when the hotel Leika was brought down by your beloved JNA, from your party, your beloved party and your national party, which was mostly led by Serbian personnel. Now on the main subject, the world that loses morale busol needs, of course, not only the world but everyone, a strong judicial system and a mechanism to implement it. Not all countries in Europe have the same standards, for example. Life imprisonment in Norway for 21 years, not the same in the EU, Poland has a different system, but although we have not yet become a northern triangle, a black hole like those three countries in Central America, it is Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras where 5.6 people are killed every day, where gangs have taken control of the government in power, we must slowly not look at this terrible thing happening in Croatia. One child has been tortured recently, two years old someone has been shutting down their uncles, breaking hands, and what, where there's synergy between ministries, institutions. One psychopath killed now in Slavonski Brod, killed a social worker, every other day, threatened them every day, not to talk about this hospital staff. These are people without any moral bus, sociopaths, psychopaths, most of them, I would say that most of the spoiled children of these former red camels, the juzomboids who had this parasitic relationship with the state. They didn't just give anything. That's what needs to be done. Like where's the prevention? Let's say someone tortured small animals and wet into bed up to 16 years old and if a pyromaniac you can still see that these are some of these signals that this man is already, that he might become a mass murderer, these are partisans you know those mass murderers had this soaring disease epilepsy from mass killing, some today praise you and as heroes and they wonder why people were blowing up monuments. The terrible thing we still live in the Stalinist dark, no this is not also said I am not yet Croatia any Kroslavija. This has become a land for the shingles, the prince of the dreary I have one example of a man calling me this morning, we have El Dorado for the shingles and these former ones, most of which are ex-red camels who never went to church, and today they're big believers. There's one, there's one there Slavonski Brod one Tofko Dedić Toti who's Mr. Mesic, Mr. Mesic your beloved this president has sold the stolen painting and he's upstairs today, whether he's got a criminal record, he's giving speeches to the Croatian Football Federation, where he's a lawyer, he's making football games as a fighter against the racism of youth, because such a head may have a record longer than my leg, surely he's a real prince of dripislav and a friend he's giving lectures, he gets money from Schuker I don't know from who up there. What can I say here? As long as we don't have the laws with our teeth, now it's affecting this national board for, the corruption council, it's got nothing to do with it. And here we hear the talk here about forests, so the juzomboids stole people's private property, it's gentlemen dear why 5% of the land books are properly recorded today, these are the consequences of your grandfathers, the grandfathers of your heroes who built those monster monuments, which, of course, the Croats blew up because they weren't their monuments, they were monuments to the Stalinist winter and your bloody locksmith to the hero, marched and today you defend him. Bujrum.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138750	The following statement on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138751	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, we are always going back to the same topic, the law, the rule of law, the other mantras, but said several thousand years ago a Greek philosopher, the law must rule, without it going back to barbarism, ritual cannibalism, child rape, etc., child slavery, women this mutilation of genitals, etc., it's not multiculturalism, it's barbarism. We know, we belong in Central Europe and we belong to the Christian circle and the former Holy Roman Empire. Now there goes Mr. Kuščević, goes, goes the group Fuhrer Kuščević, but you attack him, all of you attack him, shake hands on him left, right, wing of Ubba, but at the same time, it is a drop in the sea that has not been solved so far. What about social property, I used to say, from SUBNOR, the Syndicate, Titoyugen, SKY, what about social housing, buildings, business buildings? I used to talk about the parrot here about the seized property, what about that property? No, and who was attacked by the media? They attacked the media, imagine you, Mia Crnoj who has now won this procedure down, about that purified Mr. Media who attacked him by these forces of darkness, he was freed, he was removed for a minor offense, there was no crime and he also got his tax return, and it was imposed on him that he was a thief, a fraud, etc., his family destroyed very successfully, and he didn't get any compensation from those media. Now what's going on? Is there even a Republic of Croatia, I'm going back to the original topic, does the Republic of Croatia have a summary strategy to fight organised crime? I don't know, when we see what's going on in state-owned enterprises, what's going on in the IRS, we have international mechanisms, we just need to track the money trail. You have international courts that can handle this for us if we can't. What now? How, how to fight it when we have this National Council to combat corruption where yesterday, Mr. Bulley, Mr. Culey, who took part in criminal privatisation, was a closed circle. And this is just one smoke screen because we haven't solved the problems, but the problem is always, the solution to the problem at the source. What do you say now? Here, but if the killings don't go out of date, says Glasnovic deals with the past, I'm not an analyst. How can one intelligence system work if it is operated by people from the former system? For example. How much did the former Ubobes get dressed in security intelligence in politics and in other segments of Croatian society? If I have those documents, he accuses me of dealing with the past, I'm dealing with national security. If it's now on HTV episode eight, I don't know which, what Ubod was doing out there, killing people, nothing, nobody, nothing, here. Is the killings out of date? If the file is in Belgrade, I've said it here 10 times, then it's a crime and you're valued if you're in politics today and in other parts of Croatian society, if your file is in Belgrade. I read somewhere that maybe Mr. Perkovic is coming back here, you're going to welcome him down there with those "Live Comrade Tito", "We're Titini and he's ours," etc., maybe because some regret this system, so when you go down to welcome me, we're going to invite some foreign journalists to see who in reality is government here, so not only is it the worst that's left here, and no one is accusing the biggest criminal organization in the history of humanity that's been working here and your beloved mentor, another Tito, who had tens of millions of dollars in bank accounts and his head and that's where the head sits from those former parties, from that party, they've just divided themselves to no one of the princes and it's all guilty of this present Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138752	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138753	The next Club of Representatives is that MOST on behalf of which will speak the esteemed representative of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's time to open up the issue of Jadrolinia in this assembly. Therefore, given the strength and potential of Jadrolinija as a national shipowner in line and along coastal transport, it is clear that it is a company of national interest, the vessels of all our islands and seas. Last year alone, Jadrolinija had 12 million passengers and 3 million vehicles that could read that it belonged to 5 of the world's largest liners of passenger ships by the number of passengers transported and among the 10 largest boaters by transport of the vehicle. On several occasions, the maritime minister reiterated that Jadrolinija represents national pride and its survival and strength, as well as the strengthening of this company in the future depends on the quality of life on islands because, apart from the demographic role of life development on the islands of Jadrolini, it is crucial for the development of the economy on islands, it also participates in the realisation of the Croatian tourist offer. And I agree with that, but it's not all that great. Today we have the cover of the New List, which says the Dutch sued Jadrolini and asked for 30 million kuna. What's this about? I recently referred to the government a more alerted question from employees of the company about what bothers many of our shipyards and their employees and their families who are starving, which is why the main state shipowner Jadrolini decided to buy ships around the world, is planned in 10 years as many as 23 and instead of these ships or catamarans building and ferrying in our shipyards. But the epilogue of all of this is actually in court proceedings that will follow and the big question arises no matter how serious the shipbuilding and the shipyard are with such large financial dues, whether these lawsuits that will go against Jadrolinia and Jadrolini will be thrown on their knees. So, the best example of carelessness for the survival of our shipyards is that the president of the assembly also announced last year a tender for the purchase of 4 catamarans that adapted to the Dutch shipyard, so no Croatian shipyard could report to the competition due to such conditions. And then the Dutch shipbuilding company Thecla Bodewes sued Jadrolini, and this is what the New List writes before the Trade Court, with damages worth 30 million kuna due to last year's abandonment of Jadrolinia from the already concluded public tender for the purchase of two used catamarans of a total value of EUR 14.7 million, on which the offer of this company was chosen as the most favourable and considered to have to be realised. Finally, the result of the administration, the current administration and the management president who has a special privilege to have the floor in some way favoured by the action of our prime minister and under his protection, ultimately the result of the 4 catamarans purchased was only one delivered at an overpaid price of about EUR 1 million. Since the delivery of the second catamaran, the Dutch shipyard decided in a month and a half before the delivery to give up the contract, the Dutch, that's why we didn't charge for any penalty. At the same time, the government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Group's Oil Group pays hundreds of millions of kunas in money from Croatian taxpayers to give up the contract. We didn't charge the pens. To make the matter worse, for the remaining two catamarans worth EUR 15 million, of which Jadrolini quits after all deadlines and now this Dutch shipyard against Jadrolinia is filing a lawsuit and again, the cost will be directly or indirectly paid by Croatian taxpayers for the work of an incompetent administration. You know the result of the three board members was not removed, but two management members were removed, one of them who kept warning about this. So, the result of the current management president and the supervisory board over the past four catamarans, means a $1 million overpaid, and an e-mail co-response came out during the preparation of the tender, which pointed to serious doubts about the favoring of a single client, was replaced by 2 out of 3 management members and is now the president of the current administration. So, I'm asking the minister if an inspection has been carried out. And when they will punish the responsible [[Thank you very much.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138755	Thank you very much, you've missed the time, please let's stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138756	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Ante Pranic. Please, please. My colleagues. My colleagues. My colleagues. My colleagues. A colleague of Bačić, a colleague of the Grmoi. A colleague of Bačić, a colleague of Grmo's. Please. It's time to take a stand. Comrade Bacic, please. Time, please. Thank you. Dear gentlemen, please continue your conversation outside. Please. Please. ... Please. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Let's get some air, a little hot, probably. Here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We all know that agriculture is one of the most important economic activities in the rural area of Croatia. Agriculture is for many people from the areas where I come from one of the primary sources of income, for many and secondary, i.e. the thread that leaves them in the territory of Croatia. Agriculture is the cornerstone of the sustainability of the development of one state and Vrgorac as such and our neighborhood from which I come, as well as the parliamentary representative where one of the most developed agricultural areas, Split-Dalmatia County. We are famous today, it seems to me the most in Croatia according to this particular product, our delicious, many say that they taste the cutest strawberry, which is produced in Croatia. I can really commend our strawberries, which first gathered five, six months ago formed the Vrgora Jagoda association. They've also made efforts to make it very clear that it's a veranda strawberry, for this season, it's a strawberry in this blue packaging with this single printed sign. They tried to produce that strawberry for a year, in those heats, at the heats, paid at higher prices to re-compromise those buying chains, the trade chains, for which we brought here special laws in the most embarrassing way offer the lowest price of strawberry buying in the history of strawberry production. 15 kn/kg. Take or leave, blackmailing one policy and thus bring down the entire strawberry market where many other buyers are led and led by that price and those 100 families in Vrgorec living from this strawberry were brought to the situation and to the question whether to read it at all. And not just that. I responsibly argue that the biggest black market for agriculture is right here in the centre of Zagreb closest to that established inspectorate and let the inspectorate go as the first work assignment, under the Green Markets of Zagreb, so that it sees the traceability of many strawberries sold in this Zagreb as if they were vervain, and Vrgorca has never seen, neither the vergora field nor the top water, nor the efforts of the Vrgorje farmers, which is why these strawberries are truly and most sweet, as many who try them say. Indeed, when we sum up what is happening in Croatian agriculture, we see that many farmers receive grants for new plantations, for many machinerys, but ultimately when they produce this product that is much better than import products, they cannot place it as such. And then we're talking today about the rest of the people in the rural area. Unlike large cities, our rural areas, as well as my Vrgorac, do not have a large industry, there is no large corporation or people can find a job other than agriculture and possibly the season of tourism around the Makarska Riviera. To many people, this strawberry is the only source of life, the only source of how to educate children in Split and Zagreb, how to pay directorial expenses, but what the trade chains are doing today, I repeat the same ones that we gentlemen here dearly have passed the law in this assembly so that these same chains will survive. And they survived, and when you have to take more for farmers who should fill the shelves of those chains, there's no one anywhere. And then when it comes to wondering why he's moving the Dalmatian Zagora, he's moving you out because of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138758	Thank you. I mean, thank you for the strawberries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138759	The next Club of Representatives is this MOST of Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138760	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I would primarily talk about the day, the day of the anniversary of the death in Borovo Selo, May 2, 1991, when 12 Croatian police officers were killed and massacred. The massacre is one of the more painful events of the Homeland War, especially for the fact that until today, only one man was responsible for these 12 police officers and 22 other severely wounded police officers, primarily from the area of the former Vinkovci municipality. The charge at the time was based on the most severe form of armed rebellion, which was practically equated with the form of a war crime, and when the indictment was filed, no one thought that the General Forgiveness Act would be forgiven. But that's what happened. The more tragic fact is that of the five who were identified and accused of abuse of captured and wounded Croatian police officers, only one was available to the Croatian judiciary and was sentenced to a total of 3.5 years in prison and served the sentence. All others, in accordance with the Law of General Forgiveness, avoided their punishment. Since then, no one has tried or taken a significant step towards transferring the qualification of the indictment to what it actually was, which is a war crime. Because a wounded cop, a captured cop, with witnesses they have, killing a cat, must be something we can say belongs to a war crime. We had promises of the DORH, we also have numerous words of Croatian politicians who have attended the marking, and even today the raids, which, not only gave condolences to families, but said they will make it possible to shed light on the crime, but from these words, to this day, we have no real impact. How do you explain to the families of the victims, how do you explain to the Croatian public that being wounded, captured and then butchered can pass without punishment? What's even more intriguing, who are these behind that act? The statements of certain war criminals have also been made clear, in Serbia have indicated that they have organised an ambush, organised an ambush involving the Croatian police, and thus boasted. Therefore, we also have those who know very well how the event took place and who was all involved in this event, and if he mentioned the names and some recognizable politicians in Croatia would be appointed. The families of the injured officers have no more power, and there is little or no more that they can seek, pray, or in any way, try, enlighten, take action, and result in a just punishment for those who have done so. It further states that the Republic of Croatia has an obligation and must do everything to process, anything that is qualified under war crime, and this should certainly, at least, raise the indictment proposal, with such a qualification and initiate proceedings. We can see that there was also a protest in Vukovar, where there was a clear demonstration of the willing inhabitant of Vukovar and the surrounding areas where they wanted war crimes to be processed much faster, much more efficiently and much better. And now he would only list the names of Croatian police officers who were killed by inhumanity in an ambushed ambush in Borovo Selo. Stipan Bošnjak, Antun Grbavac, Josip Culej, Mladen Sarić, Zdenko Perica, Zoran Grašić, Ivica Vukić, Luka Crnković, Marinko Petrusic, Janko Čović, Željko Hrala and Mladen Čatic, be their eternal thanks and glory.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138761	Thank you. Now we stop for a moment because it's one hour, so we'll have a stand on behalf of the club. There was only one club, which is the club of the Independent Lists in the name of the respected representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138763	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, yesterday was the anniversary of the victim's memorial. A manly senseless murder of 12 officers who did their job in 91 C.E. And of course, when we remember these people, every year we actually look back on whether someone was punished for this crime committed against the people who did their job then, who were brutally murdered in the most vile way by criminals, villains, evil blood, who killed those young men in the most bloody way? No, I don't. The question arises, why do these criminals still walk free, and their families, the families of the victims, and even the crime does not grow old in itself, it is a habit of being called, what has the Croatian state done? I claim here publicly, nothing but tears, hypocritical every year from our top of politics, politicians who have absolutely done nothing. And I will confirm this to you on a few simple things, instead of blocking everything from Vucic, the president of Serbia, according to the EU institutions, we allow him to open chapter 23, a committee is set up to monitor with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, implement the conditions of Chapter 23, 24 of 2016, 2017, 2016 met once, in 2017, 2018, not once and for all, four times is the duty to meet once-a-yearly presidents of the Republic. Just yesterday, when I see tears from our president, I remember sending her an inquiry whether she ever received one from Minister Buric, counsellor of small Sloba or Dacic, who worked for the government of the Republic of Serbia, did she receive any report on the monitoring of Serbia's 23rd and 24th chapters? No, not once has a report been given to her, regardless of what the government has set up, what was allowed Chetnik Vukic to open chapters 23, 24 at all, di hrvatski defenders were left there to pursue them, Serbia was given the opportunity to open chapters 23, 24 until it stopped being small The Hague and no one was doing anything. I watch people who fight in Serbia for our families of the missing, our campers, Serbian natural persons paying and legal to fight, lawyers for our people, and the government does nothing, no one doing anything, while the Chetniks walk, of course, walking and even most of what hit me personally, not far from where he lost his life. I would point out here that I can't understand that there can be this transparent "What is it like to be a Serb in Croatia?" How much do I know, just the one who set up Milorad Pupovac, he's in power, he's in most of it. Could the Croats be in a similar situation? I'd like to know that Milorad Pupovac said where Dr. Ivan Schreter, he must know, there is no answer, but to ask provocative questions where man left his life and numerous other boys on Trpinjska Road, but the coalition partner HDZ has to keep it quiet, they have to keep it quiet. Once again, I express my view that it is hypocritical of the Croatian government, the president, to shed tears every year, while Minister Bozinovica, while institutions do nothing to solve the problem of criminals and criminals in the Homeland War against Croatians, means that civilians and war victims do absolutely nothing, except that the Chetniks give up free, and you receive Vucica Chetniks in the Republic of Croatia because Most with Milorad Pupovac say any words [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138764	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138765	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the Honorable MPs. We see here, there are not many colleagues, one good part is in Split for the celebration of St. Duje, means the protector of the city of Split but also the days of the city, so here is the occasion for all the Split women, I congratulate the people of Split on the day of the city for the welcome of Sudamja. What I would like to talk about is the fact that here in Split yesterday and today almost half of the government and at yesterday's session, the prime minister was reminded of meetings of the government in Split, which took place more than a year ago and said the contract was signed at the session worth more than 2 billion kuna. And then I remembered that after that session of the government of colleagues Bulj here in the Croatian Parliament, he held one press conference and practically showed and proved that all these projects that Plenkovic's Government presented at that meeting of the Government were actually projects of Ivo Sanader. Namely, at that cabinet session in Split, only the projects promised and opened by Sanader's government were repeated. For example, Plenkovic donated more than a year ago to the same military, which Sanader had already donated in 2009. when the mayor of Split was Kuret, not Oprah. Also in 2005, an agreement was signed on joint cooperation, on the construction of a joint road from Ravč knot to Drvenik, with a plan to finish by 2008. But, of course, nothing was done and then it was again 2018. 10 years after the contract was signed, Plenkovic again promised the project in Split. What's interesting is that in 2008, it's still on the website of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, 13.5.2009, so not in 2008, there's then State Secretary Branko Bačić, I circled him, he opens the works, opening the works on that date. So, this same project that they were opening in 2009, in 2018, they promise us again, and this is HDZ's behaviour for many years, false promises to citizens, and it might be good to read, which then means Secretary of State Branko Bačić, says, the future union road Ravca Drvenik, 12 km long, will open up new opportunities for Vrgorac, primarily opening up economic zones and developing a rural economy, said Minister of State Branko Bačić. It also means, what Bulj means, means colleague Bulj then said, and at that press conference, after the cabinet session, that in fact this whole session, all of those 2 billion kunas, spoken of by Prime Minister Plenkovic, was actually a lie and deception, not a single project, which they had promised for years, from the combined road to Sinj, to the tunnel through Kozjak, etc. All of these projects, which are needed both in the city of Split and in the hinterland, of which, there is nothing, and now again after 10 years, all of these Sanader projects are recycling and re-promising. And of course, in about 10 years or 5 years, God forbid some of these projects will be realized, as here, the Peljeski bridge is realized, after our colleague Bačić and others have opened it for us, by who knows how many times. So here's the 2009 story about building the Peles Bridge. So that's HDZ policy, and here, I call on Croatian citizens to think carefully, who are they who promise them this, and will they encourage them to work faster if they are punished in the elections?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138766	We have a breach of our rules of procedure, Comrade Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138767	Thank you, Mr. President. An article was injured... The Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Grumoja, delivers lies and insults fellow MPs, specifically me, saying that I was opening works on the construction of the Drvenik-Vrgorac tunnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not true and I'm reading it, which I said, then, when we... works, on one facility, on the highway, what did I say then? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I never talked about building a tunnel back then today, but we talked about it and then... to build a roadway, on highway A1. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138768	So, at this point, I can't judge, because I don't know what's true. So I can't give my grade, whether the Rules of Procedure is injured or not. We can check it out, and then we can comment on it later. But there's a colleague of the Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138769	So, here, this example, this is an injury. The 238th is the first time the Rules of Procedure were injured because you've replicated to me and you should have received a warning from the chairman, so it was a pure replica. I'd certainly get a warning, if I had done this, it's safer, I don't know from the bale, and on the other hand I'm gonna read you correctly, that you, what you announced, have announced, and you've opened one of the projects, one of the parts of that project that hasn't yet It hasn't been built yet, which has not yet been built. [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Grumoja, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138770	So you won't get a warning either. At this point, I can't tell what's true, but I don't think my colleague Bacic's replicated it, he put it out, something he thinks you're falsely saying, so I really can't get through it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138771	The next Club of Representatives is that bridge of independent lists, on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138772	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, when we have this position statement, then you might say, here's General Glasnovic, that the Independent List Bridge has proposed opening an archive, which was open, but HDZ, SDSS and HNS have closed it down, so without the archives we can't solve at all, of course there were all kinds of birds, owls, colleagues and all that. But I think it was a solution to the problem, to open the archives, unfortunately, that's why we're going to have the same story for the next 50 years where we're going to talk about illustration, and in fact the only thing we could do was to open the archives, but then there was an agreement in this assembly, both left and right and national minorities, that the archives didn't open up and that the area was still foggy. However, here in this position I would start from essentially the key problems of living in this area, here is a year since he was ruling St. Duje, here's to congratulating... The Splits of St. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Duju, the Dalmatians, spent a year exactly from the government in Split, and not a single project was completed, but didn't start, and they talked about two billion kuna investments in Dalmatia in the Split area, in the Split-Dalmatia County. At the same time as they tour the premieres and open... The opening of numerous projects in Split-Dalmatia County, and so in Dalmatia we are simply witnessing that we have an increase in tourism, we still have a rise and that is good, but we have a decrease in the production of food products, so promises of irrigation of Sinj, Vrgorjek, Ioto and other fields that could feed all tourists in tourism, we did not do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We didn't declare the IGP to protect our fisherman, not to give us Thais, fascists and Italians a profit in the tourist season and that they fish out in our waters and that it's like... the value of the sale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Projects such as verticals, compounds on the Dalmatian Zagora that emigrates, which demographically disappears as it boasts with the withdrawal of funds, our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, at the same time neither vertical towards the Cetinan end nor the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel nor Drniš towards Drnis or Knin which were a joint on the highway and that this area which from Krka, Neretva survives neither did these projects run except one part, but it was 2016 as regards the planning documentation. I've been giving amendments here, begging the Minister of Transport to accept those amendments because they promised them at a cabinet meeting. They weren't accepted. They still lie, they promise, people leave, schools are empty, schools are closed, health homes don't have doctors, we don't have pediatricians, we don't have radiologists, and now when they look back at that government that promised the workers of Dalmatia to pay their salaries, I was with them at the protest, not only then, they didn't or gave blood pay. They didn't even give the dalmatinka workers, and the president promised them here to question that woman I knew, I lived with them, I was with them the whole time. So this government except that it boasts that Angela Merkel, the person for whom Andrej Plenkovic must protect the teleoperators to have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, is the only thing that works in Angela Merkel's interest. And what will Croatia have from visiting Angela Merkel? Will today accept the law that base stations must have a building permit in the Republic of Croatia, as in all countries, not only the EU but Europe. That's why I'm symbolically wearing this shirt. Are we their colony? Does this flag stand as a colonial force or are we even? So this flag stands towards the teleoperators, according to our agriculture, which from 10 months of age, foreigners will be able to buy while we in Hungary can't. What did they put in this EU flag as a colony or are we even? Is Angela Merkel or protecting Croatian national interests? Is this colonial here a government or have our political elites fought only to court Angela Merkel, Tusk, Tajania, Vukic and others or to protect our national resources and our national interests? Of course you won't, it won't go away. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138773	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138774	Dear colleagues and colleagues will now be based on the Rules of Procedure of Article 249. move to taking a stand on behalf of the clubs. Let me just give you some information, and then I'll set a break by 14 o'clock when we start making a statement on the amendments at 14 o'clock, and after that, we'll proceed with this agenda point. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. He's not present. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138775	Thank you very much Chairman, colleagues and colleagues a year ago. Right in the second month of 2018, I was on a black hill in the flats, and there I have some photos from that time, and then I brought a black hill into the box here, and I gave it to the president of the assembly. For what? Because the European Court of Justice said and ruled that Croatia did not respect the obligations of the Black Hill in Biljani Donji. The black hill in the heart of the flat wheels, in the ecologically preserved area, the black hill that was left there, means the industrial cost of the factory, the Sibenik ferolegure factory TEF, which is an industrial cost, which is carcinogenic. Eco-indicators have struggled for years, however, obviously the Ministry of Environment that had to protect the environment, protect, the people and associations had to protect the environment and now we have a huge problem. Instead of putting a black hill in a box here, when I gave that gravel which means poisoned, which was delayed by houses where people live mostly Serbian national minorities, where it was near the birthplace of Milorad Pupovac whom these people of the Serb national minority who had to drink water there, breathe that dust and which they were dealing with, they couldn't deal with what they had to do and didn't care. Of course, when I gave the black hill, I also warned the Minister of Environment and Energy who did not respond, and last year the European Commission filed a complaint to the European Court that simply this dump was 140,000 tonnes of waste. Croatia did not classify this as a waste, and this is where the hazardous waste is delayed in 2010. Why is the Croatian State not to this verdict, why the Croatian State did not prevent this verdict, which is why it did not react when the European Commission warned of this. The same thing, the same case was in 2007 when my fellow citizens of Sinjani, Cetinjani, will be fed up when the industrial cost, Mladneo pushed over its infrastructure to delay the mining of the salt rock in Suhač and Karakasica along the rivers of Cetina. At the time I was brought in, many amounts were agreed, and it can be remembered then he came to Sinj and his colleague Bačić when you pushed, Mladneo when he pushed to delay the cost of the Long War along the river Cetina. You remember that time, all of you. That's when I was brought in, that's when I was brought in, and it was about huge amounts, that's when I was brought in. But we're with the people, I stopped together. Also here I would like to thank first of all the Eco Association Straight Wheels who as an ecological activist association tried to prevent it, I in Sinjo managed to prevent it from being here. And now those who are calling on the EU, those who boast about friendship with Tajani, Vukic and Junker essentially violate the EU Directive that Croatia will have to pay, this ruling will have to pay with that for years the European Commission has warned, I have been on that black hill and tomorrow I will go to my colleague Bačić on that black hill because I don't want to have those people poisoned first, you can go away, but it is true and you knew Mr. Mladne who did the greatest damage, you can, there was also an attempt of course, there was the extraction of money through the waste, the waste mob ruled, she government, she usurped our natural wealth and now she doesn't want or listen to this problem, and RH, I'm sorry what my colleague Bačić escaped from this booth is telling me the truth, I'm asking her to deny me, she's still in the assembly, who will pay this judgment of the European Court, who will answer for this, who will be responsible for all that you with the mob, who are going to answer to the mob, who are going to the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138776	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Now we will be based on the Rules of Procedure, Article 249 and move on to the presentation of the position on behalf of the clubs. The first one appeared on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138778	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, someone may think that there are far more important issues than what I'm about to say now, I think helping others and humanitarian aid is always an important issue for the Republic of Croatia. On Monday, it will be 13.5, the anniversary of the unplayed Dinamo-Red Star game I was on and the fans opposed the first Serbian aggression that was in that stadium. Fate wanted Slavko Istvanic, the legendary player of Dinam, to be unable to perform at the game because he was injured. The “Dinamo, It’s Us” Association organizes a charity match at the Cibon Hall on Sunday and this time I invite all fans, not only Dinam, but other clubs to respond to the game. The game will feature legends of Dinam and Croatian Football League by Boban, Shalja, Dari Šimić and Dr. and this time, so I am using the opportunity to invite you all to come to the game to help Slavko's son. I also want to say that the perception of fans in the Croatian public is very often bad and that they are very often on the pages of black chronicles. But reality is different. The fans first went to the Homeland War and the crowd died on the front line of the front line. The fans put out the first fires in Dalmatia together, where they united. Fans first set out to help the flooded Slavonia, fans organized voluntary blood donations, built a playground in Vukovar, and this is another picture of fans. So, once again, I call on the media to promote this event as much as possible to help Slavko Istvanić, on the other hand, and to change the perception of fans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138779	I thank my colleague, Sladolev. You said Sunday, in Cibon, what time? 8:00 p.m. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138780	Mrs. Sonja Cikotic in front, taking the stand of the club of independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138781	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I congratulate all citizens and citizens of the Day of the Croatian Parliament on this important day so I would like to congratulate all citizens and citizens of Croatia on this road on behalf of the club MOST. I would refer to demographic policy or the lack of demographic policy of this government. After two years, a little over a month ago, we had the opportunity to hear that the Secretary-General is planning to go public, in public consultation with a specific plan of over 100 measures, but to this day none of this has happened. Croatia today does not have a strategy for demographic revitalisation, there is no plan, and everything that has been conveniently announced has been announced for 1 April 2020. Since it was only after two years of inaction announced for April 1st, 2020, I must admit that it all sounds like some kind of April joke to me. I would like to say that today children in Croatia, their rights and care about their rights depend largely on where they were born, whether they were born in a smaller place in a big city, depends on whether or not they will have the right to care. It also depends on the benefits parents receive at the birth of the child, so today we have a demographic, demographic disaster in which we don't actually care about children's rights and, in fact, throughout Croatia, these rights are not equally represented. A negative demographic trend is present in Croatia today, 4400 people were reported in the first two months of January and February, and there is also a presence of emigration of the population. The Ombudsman’s report on gender equality shows that the measures provided for relate to greater use are meant by fathers, maternity and parental leave, and that women are allowed to enter the labour market as soon as possible. I proposed a law on maternity and parental support in the parliamentary procedure in front of the Club of Independent Lists, in such a way as to increase maternity benefits in view of the increased cost of life. That every woman who becomes a mother is no less compensation than 3.991 kuna during the first year of a child's life. Also, women who have a higher salary than those 3.991 kunas have their full salary until the first year of their child’s life. Since the Ombudsman for gender equality has also stressed that women and should return and ensure the possibility of returning to the labour market, I have suggested that, in fact, through these amendments to the law, during the second and third years of life of a child, mothers receive ex post, monthly assistance in the amount of 2328 kuna to those mothers who have twins or means a third child. It is also proposed to pay parental leave for grandparents, so grandparents in certain units of local self-government have adequate, formal care for children and for preschool age, it is actually necessary to ensure other alternative mechanisms in order to actually encourage society on demographic renewal. Here, today is the day of the Croatian Parliament, once again I want to congratulate all of you and the Day of the Croatian Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138782	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138783	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138784	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to talk about what I've said countless times but there's been a faint noise, the scream of the people, it's the preservation of drinking water. As we look at our neighbouring country, which is a member of the EU, which has passed the Violation Act, which, unanimously in the Assembly, is protecting Krš in its Parliament, which requires that this karst area be declared, which it has applied to the World Heritage List and which has come before the European Parliament unanimously to adopt the law on the protection of infringements. In the Republic of Croatia, no one hears that cry of nature or the cry of the people from that area. Here I was not long ago a participant in a protest of the citizens' initiative “Do not give up Cetino. ” When it comes to the Adriatic, the Adriatic pollution they use, the city of Split is essentially in the tourist season of over a million people. To see what it doesn't care, hundreds of caves that walk off the highway go to the river Jadro. To see how many wild dumps there are in these open pits and, above all, in Muč, the Municipality of Muč if they saw the animals killed and there are caves connected to the rivers Jadro, Zrnovica, Pantana, of course, and the river Cetina, Krka, Zrmanja, in the heart of the Dalmatian mountain, to admire this wild dump they line up and soak up. And it goes early to the Adriatic or the Zrnovnica River or other tributaries of those rivers, our wealth of drinking water. I will personally propose a law on the protection of misdemeanors, personally, I already have it and we are preparing it with people of the profession. There must be a cry of nature and the survival of the people in the area. It's not just enough for someone to get a concession on the water lines, at the source of Cetina or Zrmanja. Look at Krka, what she's like, so I was down there, a disaster. Protected, Slovenians protected the river from spring to mouth in their law. Look down when I was at Krka what is it, in Knin, at TVIK's factory, i.e. The DVDs, the former TVIK, it's a disaster. It's a mockery of nature that nature has given us. And not just that, those foam pits defend some people I mean, for what reason? Especially since the Longfield Zone was built. So why, monthly, once, two, three times a few days do the Splits have to buy water? It will soon be in Sibenik and Sibenik, so it will be in Zadar for the sake of Zrmanja, so it will be in the entire area of Krško. Who cares, the key resource doesn't protect him and not declare him a protected area of law? On all sides, the area is being attacked, and not only is it being attacked, but the Lečevica waste management centre in the heart, in Lečevica, is building it in the heart of the Dalmatian mountain, I am against it. Dears of Split, I know you're bothered by the waste in Split, I know how it is but believe me you won't have drinking water, we all have to stop and protect the area of our karst, Dalmatian burn and other karst areas, Skradin, our Zrmanja, everything from Zrmanja to Neretva, Krka, Cetina, Jadro, everything is threatened. It's all compromised. And I have to say here, 600 thousand people in the EU, a million and 600 thousand people have raised a petition, and that is, in all EU legislation, that water is not commercially good but publicly good, drinking water and we are not sticking to it. We Center for Waste Management work in the center of the karst area where all river tributaries are tied to that area and all rivers poisoned. Our wealth is drinking water. And here I promise publicly that soon I will propose a law on the protection of the breach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138785	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138786	The MOST advocates' club has also applied for a position, according to MP Nikola Grmoy on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138787	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Constitutional Court found 15 years ago that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have legal power of law. I would like to inform you that Minister Pejcinović Buric has already broken his Rules of Procedure four times and refused to answer my question about the identity of the person responsible for signing the travel orders to the Secretary General of Foreign Affairs and the wife of the former ambassador to Australia during her fake schedule in Sydney. The chief inspector of the ministry here in a meeting before the Anti-Corruption Council testified that the former secretary-general had been receiving personal income for years on the basis of a false schedule in Australia. I would like to remind you that even RS President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic had to publicly show her travel orders from official travel to Washington, Minister Pejcinović Buric therefore has no right to cover up the travel orders issued to a state official in Australia. A question is raised that motivates the minister to violate the Rules of Procedure and to conceal travel orders for the former ambassador's wife in Australia. Did the minister have the same motive to deny constitutional rights to express ministry employees by adopting a new regulation, did the same motive encourage Minister Pejcinović Buric and the political persecution of diplomat Sablak who reported the unauthorized spending of state money in Australia and the United States? On Wednesday, I attended the court's testimony of diplomat Sabelak, and it is a shame that the Official Court rejected the proposal that the minister's testimony to the court is obvious about his accusations against this man, and it is a pity that the court did not approve the recording of the testimony to the TV team, so the Croatian public remained deprived of seeing how the chosen person was illegally spending our money. However, when the necessary conditions are created, the testimony of officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may nevertheless be maintained before some other state bodies. I would like to invite the President of the Assembly from this place to comply with Article 33. The Rules of Procedure protect the rights of MPs, as I cannot enforce my representation rights and government oversight duties if the minister has been in breach of the Rules of Procedure for months to which the legal force is equal to the law. I suspect that the Minister does not deliver the requested travel orders and violates the Rules of Procedure because these travel orders could also expose her participation in the cover-up of unauthorized spending of state money. Please, from this seat of the speaker of the assembly when he returns from Japan, to carry out his duty and provide me without delay of delivering all the travel orders I asked Minister Pejcinović Buric. My colleagues and colleagues in the end I want to remind you and the general public that we are all obliged to stand in the protection of people like Damir Sabelak, people who are willing at the cost of their own safety and existence to point out the illegalities and illegalities that take place in state bodies. Such people are precious and we all have a duty to them. Civil courage can be encouraged, we can encourage it or we can suppress it as does the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138788	Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn to present the position of MOST, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138789	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, 13.4. years and 2 months soon the Istanbul Convention will be adopted here and then the problems of violence against women, against children, will be solved in the family. However, even then, I claimed that the Istanbul Convention was brought exclusively to be adopted. Although for those, I did not then support the Istanbul Convention, said... that we're not human if we don't support the Istanbul Convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now in Free Dalmatia, on the portal, I read Daruvarac a reduced sentence for brutal beatings and threats to young Zadar. It has been reduced to an outright council of the County Court in Split from 5 to 4 years old. For that brutal beating of an 18-year-old girl. We saw, watched, protested people in both Zadar and Dalmatia and Croatia. Is this the Istanbul Convention, whether it is an implementation in other institutions, i.e. The institutions, the judiciary, the police, is this the implementation of the Istanbul Convention? The people need to know that it was just fog and that it wasn't the protection of women. Not even the workers of the Dalmatian women who failed to exercise their right to whom I was brought in 20 years ago, 15 years ago, nor have workers' rights, nor care who, like Kamensko and other companies. It's not a struggle for women's rights, that what they say we have to raise our hand. We must have institutions that, regardless of all conventions, will protect women and weaker. Protects families, protects the powerless, not us here in some kind of philosophical speech that we were then against or for our own reasons to say that we are not human. Is this the government programme of Andrej Plenkovic with the SDP's sub-signation, because there was also a clap at the time thundering this assembly here? What you're saying now is what the Croatian institutions and the judiciary are doing, they're reducing the man who beat the 18th-year-old to shame, beat her and threatened her in an unprecedented manner. His head was breaking the urinals and shells, the child literally, the child. And institutions, our judiciary reduces punishment. Is that a message from the Istanbul Convention? We don't have to be the ones who have to tell the protection institution less, send that message, and not just send a message outside we're for protection and basically the institutions work up. There's more violence now than before the document was adopted. That means we don't strengthen the institution's implementation, so who's here against protecting women and the weaker, who's here? No one, but then it was declaring us when we said this was going to happen, it was declaring to the backsides, the inhumans, where are they now, it's happening in their cities, where are they now? By the way, I didn't mean to talk about this, but this has really hit me emotionally now, first of all, when I see that punishments are being reduced to a crime like this that's been committed to a girl since she was 18 years old. By the way, I was thinking of talking about the projects of this government in my area, I laid all the rock foundations in the area, another part, the foundations with very small costs, with a hack or a machine, for all the promised projects at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is the combination of Dalmatian fuel vertically towards the highway and the tunnel Ravca-Drvenik and the tunnel Kozjak that would solve the Split part, I was giving amendments, I started with the most important project, it is a combination of highways to the Cetina landscape and this government from the Split government absolutely did nothing, absolutely from the meeting of the Government in Split, no shift except studies and planning documentation, and from year to year you also promise to the people of Dalmatia and the Dalmatian Zagora, and so it was probably the tribal of the stones of the Foundation of the Foundations would be laid out throughout the Republic of Split and opposed to such policy, and against such a promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138790	Thank you for your accuracy, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138791	We're going to the next debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138792	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, in recent months, they have been quietly passing the privatisation of Croatian sources, the largest springs of drinking water. We saw that in the foreign hands of 2.5, she also quietly transferred the concession to Jamnica. We used to mean the same quiet years ago and Lipik and the source of St. Roka and Cetince, who also quietly went into foreign hands and so that in Croatia is created essentially what should not and the water is public good, at this point it becomes only the individuals, it must not be good for individuals and it must not be commercially good. The only person who has protected the EU's waters is Slovenia. With the Constitution, she protected the drinking water and that it was the right of every man. When we look at only how Croatia is located, it is the first in drinking water and 27 thousand square cubic meters, it has a cubic meter per capita. At present, 6% of our population does not have drinking water. We have given our sources of drinking water to foreigners to commercialise and sell water until our citizens are protected and national security above all the government of the Republic of Croatia must be the protection of public good and drinking water is a public good. It also warns the World Health Organization that uncontrollably privatising water leads to people’s dangers and health and, above all, people without drinking water. At this point, we are first in the EU to Eurostat. And we have no other choice and we have no right to future generations but to protect by the Constitution the right to drink water. It can't be commercial, commercialized water so it's exclusively the right of individuals to water. We need to protect national resources for everyone in this area. I repeat, Slovenia alone protected by the Constitution the right to water. According to this proposal each, drinking water is a public good rather than market goods, so it should be protected. I'm here in front of the MOST Club saying we'll take steps to protect the Constitution of drinking water. From you colleagues and colleagues, I ask and it is our obligation to sign this proposal because in order to change the Constitution we must have a sufficient number of signatures. This proposal will guarantee the supply of drinking water to the population and households, which is the duty of the Croatian State, and that water supply is a public service in which only a state can transfer all rights to the local community through non-profit companies. Thus, they would prevent commercialisation and very important activities and ensure free access to drinking water sources for all citizens. If Slovenia could do this as the first country in the EU and Europe, we are rich in drinking water, let us not allow us to endanger public good in favour of those who want to commercialise and earn money on water. So I urge you once again that on behalf of the Most Club, we will begin to collect signatures after the amendment of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138793	Next, it's my colleague Sincic's turn. He's not present. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138794	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. One of the topics that we have often repeated, in previous years more, in this last one is the question of the relationship between the Croatian government and MOL, the issues of Croatian oil that we see now have once again come into a kind of heat, not to the attention of Croatian governments, the current policies but only to those who are really fighting for Croatian interests. We also experienced the fact that Croatian oil was transported by train to Hungary, and thus the actual implementation of the programme that MOL has already drawn up in 2015, perhaps some ministers in the meantime were one small rock on the road but we see that there are no obstacles now, there is no minister, there is no Prime Minister who will not only fight it, not that it will fight it, that even if production is re-established in Sisak or at least to process in Rijeka all our quantities but there is no comment and that is what most of us are saying, that the Croatian government does not have a key man who can come out in front of the public and clearly say his position, no one has a comment, no comment on the Prime Minister, no comment on the Minister of Energy, no comment from JANAF, only the INA said clearly and loudly we transport it, you can bark at us as much as you want and what some might say, there is no comment, there has been a map of a great MOL, and there has been no comment on the need of the necessary security, and the need of the necessary security of the need to achieves and the necessary security of the security of the need of the necessary, the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the key. What we only call ourselves, we only call for positioning, for politics, for guessing works, I may even say here, it is not so much bargaining for some economic personal interests but more guessing for political recognition. What's gonna happen to us? We will have a prime minister who will praise the European Commission for being a pacifist who allows our raw materials to come out of Croatia and who does not raise noise about it, who is silent, who is talking to everyone and who will be rewarded for it. He's smiling at a great political future and what's our future? Since we've been processing oil into two refineries where about 600,000 tons of domestic oil were in the manufacturing process, where new research confirms new oil supplies that will one day be processed somewhere further and all the time we're talking about, we should establish production, we should process our primary products, and in the end, we don't have that kind of production either in the food industry or in any other perhaps metal industry we're constantly dreaming of, this time we won't even have in the chemical industry where such processing isn't just part of the fuel that people use every day, but also raw materials for many other needs. What are we going to do about it? The fact that our incomes will be this small that will be responsible for financing only the necessary functions of the state that will be a system for ourselves instead of making a real contribution because sometimes when we look at it, it's not only worth something but when you have a drive, when you have people, when you have the production that it requires when it's living in Croatia, it's trying, some short-term solutions that may have negative financial effects are getting over because the economy isn't just individual values but the sum, the sum of what we've produced in Croatia, what's being distributed through every resident of the Republic, what's our value, and when it's most difficult to defend, this government does not defend any Croatian interest except when it calls out the opposition to call them rightly, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138795	I thank my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138796	We are going to the last debate of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138797	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to speak in this part of my colleagues, but here's a fellow Milosevic about the waters, and I'm going to talk about what's more important to me, but here's a fellow Milosevic now talking about ethnic, ethical impatiences towards national minorities and violence. Croatia is not a country of violence, and we need to condemn all the sporadics that happen to violence, according to anyone, so in this case what happened to Brač. However, as for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, they have rights, you are a fellow Milosevic in this assembly in the majority, so ask your colleague who is sitting behind you Mr. Pupovac, where Dr. Ivan Streter, if he should know where he is according to what Mr. Degoricia was saying, so that we know at least where the bones of that peacemaker are, that they know his families where they are. Where is he? And I condemn any violence, any violence, and I think it is seen, here you are a Serb in the Croatian Parliament and you are part of the parliamentary majority which is unimaginable in the Republic of Serbia or any other state. And that's some standard that's been reached in the Republic of Croatia. And I come from a place where people of Serbian nationality live, here's where I was elected for the fourth time now my list as chairman of the local committee. And I fight for these people, proud of them because they were patriots, patriots, contributing to our society, people of Serbian nationality, and every violence should be publicly condemned and not Croatia declared a country of violence and so represent it in the world, and I will always say it. However, I would open here a topic that is important to my citizens from where I come from, whether of Croatian nationality, whether of Serbian nationality and that is the problem of water. It's my Dalmatian burn problem, it's the problem of the debris, it's the problem of a new market where the world wants to commercialize water, where the Dalmatian Zagora wants to donate to us a constant Centre for Waste Management of Lečevica, which is essentially the last nail in a coffin of drinking waters because we need to know that the Split swimming pool, the whole of Split and the Split swimming pool because of the pollution of the Adriatic that we are because of the pits in Krš, in the Dalmatian Zagora whenever it happens that we don't have water. I think that's what we're talking about today, and the MOST is going to propose that, in Parliament, it's going to have a press conference to make the waters public, every man, not to be commercially good. Because I must, I repeat, four sources in the Republic of Croatia are already essentially days on long-term concessions from a source in Cetina that is given to 50 years a month for 5,000 kunas that have not been discussed. We colleagues and colleagues must enter the Constitution if Slovenia could not, we have the right and obligation, because we are one of the richest countries with drinking water that we care very little about, so we see here on Lake Peruca, yesterday I was where the stains of the strangest ecological looks and it is the largest pool of drinking water. We've got wild dumps, and we've got legal dumps, for example. in Otisic, which affects the river Cetina and similar dumps in Muč, which affects the river Jadro which is connected to underwater waters. So we must protect our waters. Tomorrow we also have a thematic session in Split-Dalmatia County. There will also be colleagues Dobrović, there will be other experts where we will give the solution, not Lečevica, because we see what is happening in Marišćina but we will also give a solution presented by colleagues Dobrović, prof., dr. Stanko Uršić also known as the man who deals with this topic where we will also give a solution to waste resolution but we will not let the gentlemen let us put Lečevica, the Waste Management Centre in our karst part and that is in the heart of the Dalmatian Burn. By reminding us that Sibenik-Knin County opposes Lečevica while Split-Dalmatia struggles for it to be this Waste Management Centre and we know that both in Sibenik and Split are in the power of HDZ. Which means there's a division between you, and in this case, I'm on the good side, and that's not the Lecivica Waste Management Center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138798	Mr. Sladolev in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here today, the world's media has spread that Michel Platini has been jailed for serious accusations of malfeasance in the award of the Catarra World Cup. It should also be said that fans in a movement called Against modern football warned about that fact for years and the football lay it clear that the award of the World Cup to Qatar was suspicious and warned of that fact, however, as with us, they were ridiculed for the reasons that they were therefore to be labelled as people who are against football legends and as people who do not want to spread football to other countries. It should also be said that this movement advocates that original football, the football that lived 50 years ago, and as our fans who warned against crime in Croatian football, were therefore marginalized. So there are hooligans in the lodges of the world and ours, and what's even more ridiculous is that we are from the Croatian government and from the media, which we can see lately, we have a proposal and we will soon have in the parliamentary procedure so-called. Cheerleading law, lex specialis. It should also be said that the law if it comes to the parliamentary procedure that it will be suspended because there is no law on fans, a special law on fans according to that same logic should then be a law on visitors to folk clubs. So what's the difference between a sports event where there's violence and a folk club where there's violence in police statistics, 10 times more? The announcements go in that direction to punish fans who will drink 3 beers and who will sit still in their seat with their child but will use alcohols if they smoke more than extra, that they will end up in prison or take away his right to go to the game. So, I find such a law scandalous by the same logic then we should introduce the alcotists under the assembly, I think our work is far more responsible than watching the game, by the same logic, then we should be alcoholised when we're here and if we've had more than 3 beers, that we can no longer join this assembly because there's also violence in this assembly. So I repeat again, there is no lex specialis, there is no cheerleading violence that is different from violence, for example. There's no right violence, there's no left violence, there's no left love, there's no right love, there's only one love and I find labeling such facts unfair. And I repeat again, so the ruling elites want to shut down the cheerleading groups because they are only anti-systemic, after they are fighting political elites, because in their processes they were the drivers of social change, one such law that is planned to be passed in the Croatian Parliament which, the truth works only in the announcements, can only result in more violence in the stands, should also be said that I am against violence on the tribune and any violence and that hooligans should be singled out but people who are calmly watching the game and I say, do not cause problems, put in the same basket, I consider it a problem, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138800	Here's another presidential run, thank you very much. Next presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, colleague Miro Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138801	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, on Sunday 16, meaning last week, I received a call from locals living in the area of Peru and who are in the initiative “Don’t give yourself to Cetino” if you remember this ecological initiative that works today and which works in the protection of the area and I came to the area of Peru where the stains of unusual shape and look, in a large amount of mixture that is more like fat and I simply asked for all of the relevant ones, I published it on Facebook profile, these are the media that I thank and published these images that are unmilly in the largest pool of drinking water in this part of Europe, which is Lake Peruca which is located on the river, in the river of Cetina. And of course I expected the answer and that the water inspection and environmental inspection came into place and to see what was going on because we need to know that millions of people are using water from the river Cetina and we see what was going on with our debris, that it will be used even more because simply the river Jadro, the source of Jadro, is where Split is powered, is simply already polluted because of our behavior in the back of our Dalmatia, i.e. In a junkyard in Dalmatia, it burns to see things like this happen. And to a great surprise in the short term, HEP replied that this is an annual phenomenon, however, people who have lived there for years, I went there every day in summer and took a bath, learned to literally swim there, and that is life, the Cetina River, Lake Peru are important to the life of that area, and the stains were immediately described by HEP as a statement of some kind of annual phenomenon and simply it is untrue and about it immediately and do not give up, immediately the citizens' initiative "Don't give up Cetino" has given, it sent a water inspection and environmental protection, I sent to the Ministry for environmental and energy protection to react, however, it is an interesting reaction to the fast HEP that claims nothing is happening. Gentlemen, it happens, a few hundred meters away we have a dump where the trash from Makarska, from all over, is the lake itself, and it's a karst area, it's a sponge, it's impossible to happen to another country, Norway that protects the lake, you can't fish when you're told, and here everything is allowed, you can't, here you can't, there's such an ecocid in the karst area that it's amazing, so we have wild dumps, in the karst area, and we have no other choice but to fight to protect that part. The HEP defends just as the Ministry of Environment defended when it fought the battle from 2007 to 2014, and later the industrial cost from the Far War factory is delayed in salty rocks where the River Cetina tributaries, then all Ministers and Secretarys of Youtho, later Zmajlović claimed that it was environmentally purely acceptable and that it could fertilise the land, but it is as Black Hill is in competition, but the European Commission has sued the Republic of Croatia that it is harmful material and environmentally unacceptable to delay it, and now the European Court has ruled on the basis of an action by the European Commission, that it will have to collect huge damages for the Black Hill, and it was intended to delay it along with Cetina, 7 years of fighting itself, brought me to the police for informed talks but did not give way. And here I call upon the relevant institutions to protect Lake Peruca and the karst area. That's why I repeat, we must pass the law on the breach. Wild dumps, legal dumps, garbage, who knows what's not delayed in Lake Peruca and Cetin River. Same with the Adriatic. And that's why I'm going to show you these pictures in black and white are colors so you might not notice, it's amazing what's going on on at the biggest drinking water pool because of the irresponsibility of those who run the Ministry of Environment and Energy and HEP's immediate answer but if he's lying, he's not lying. I will personally, together with the association, the "Don't Give Up Cetino" initiative that we have stopped the harmful project of the Peruca thermal power plant, all to undertake that the public is informed and to force the institutions to do their job because obviously we must protect our environment, our waters from the Ministry of Environment that Croatian citizens pay for, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138802	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138803	And we're going to the last debate, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138804	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. Some colleagues have already spoken, and this is also the topic that is in the absolute focus of both the public and the media and our citizens, so the former Minister of Construction, and today the Minister of Management Lovro Kuščević, has problems with personal property. For irony to be complete Kuščević is meaning the current minister of administration and not his own house for 11 years he entered in the cadastre while the second during his local rule magically became a house from the barn. The wizard Kuščević did not pour ashes but still insults the common sense of the citizens by giving them tragic advice on how to get rich. A lot of people in the military country have done in both academic and entrepreneurial terms much more than Lovra Kuščević, but have not been rich. However, many among them were forced to leave Croatia. There's a question of why. So because they lacked the key ingredient in Lovre's recipe for success, they were not members of the ruling party or the party's chiefs. It is precisely from the example of the minister of administration that it is clear why the ruling party will never reform public administration or introduce order among units of local and regional self-government. If they did, their people would be much harder to make up, which means they should be in politics because of ideals and ideas and they don't have either of them anymore. For the reform of the public administration that was left in the ministry drawer, MOST has secured 880 million kuna. According to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System's reply, by the end of 2018 only 18 million kunas were used, all projects were delayed and it is a priority to digitise business processes to ensure the transparency of the work of each official and official. Networking public registers would have fewer employees who betray and verify infinite certificates and documents and there is a huge space for increasing and issuing health care, for education and dispensing the economy. Depolitisation is an important objective of public administration reform and would be ensured through the measurement of the impact of each employee's workplace and if implemented, it would not matter who hired who and would care about the ends of imaginary jobs. It is clear that local self-government units need to be rounded up and even consider abolishing such counties. Countys have fallen to all trusted functions. For example, in education, our schoolmates do not have the same conditions and even in 245 district schools, so the conditions are below each level because with our children, our teachers, teachers are still heating up on solid fuels. Not to mention health services that are not equally available and high quality in all parts of Croatia, we do not need to list these cases that have occurred in recent months, especially in rural areas. In waste management, the counties also fell because their trombones in failing to fulfil their entrusted tasks are causing Croatia to pay for the foams because they will not meet the requirements for the separation of 50% of raw materials from waste in 2020. And finally to conclude as far as Minister Kuštevic is concerned, in every normal state, such an affair means the resignation of the minister only in Plenkovic's Croatia, not because applying such criteria would mean giving up more than half of his ministers and that would mean the end of the government. To preserve himself, the prime minister of Croatia holds in every sense at the European bottom, Croatia is a hostage to his personal ambitions, his government full of affairs and his party, which unfortunately rests on clientelism and corruption. Yesterday we celebrated State Day, a day that we proudly celebrate because we fought for the country we've been waiting for for so long. Now that we have it, we have to arrange it so that it can be tailored to every citizen, there are no double standards, there are no discounts for politicians, each of our citizens would be fired to do the job as Minister Kuščević does. It's time for him to get fired, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138805	Thank you. This brings us to the end of free speech, so we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138806	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138807	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, ever since I've been a parliamentary representative, I've been warning the teleoperators who are setting up their base stations wherever they think they are breaking their minds, as their IDS colleagues have just said about the gas station in their area rather than breaking the city's spatial plans, municipalities, schools, cultural goods, set up base stations wherever they think of it. Following this, I have also proposed two legislative initiatives, to arrange this as in other EU countries, but since, congratulations to the newly elected ones who have advanced from our government in European society, that we also adhere to European criteria and we need nothing more than to ask for teleoperators in this case behave in Croatia, as they behave in EU countries. I also asked this question in writing, these two laws, the Construction Act, where it would be necessary for the base stations to have a building permit as well as in other EU countries. Unfortunately, the majority did not accept as well as the Law on Electronic Communications where they would pay means the right to serve, as well as in countries where teleopers come from, because we need to know that only 400 units of local self-government are in dispute with teleopers to pay for their right of service, without going back to saying that our political elites handed over what our old ones were creating, which is a telephone infrastructure that was put into the hands of foreigners. Every day in the Republic of Croatia we have protests, here at Vira, in my Sinj, in Istria it is defined in some way, but defined by a spatial plan, but yet teleoperators do not behave according to spatial plans. Teleopers in Croatia, I repeat, have a 42% profit, while on average in the EU and Europe 20%. I'm sorry most of them didn't accept that. Which allowed teleopers to treat us within the EU as if we were their colony. I asked them a question in the 11th month. Last year, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who in the current hour, who did not want to then, as prime minister, to give an answer, which is why teleopers in Croatia do not behave as in their countries where they come from. He said the transport minister would answer. The Minister of Transport has not answered today, so he would ask the Vice-President to tell the President of the Parliament that the government is responding to parliamentary questions as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. What's this all about? This is because of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, the interest of teleoperators and the influence on politics is too great and there is no other reason. Here, a few days ago, we had a thematic session of the Committee on the Protection of Nature and Environmental Protection, where there was no answer, where a member of the Croatian Organisation for the Protection of magnetic radiation proved by the Ministry of Health, which has its own regulation, found that 890 times more radiation on public surfaces in the Republic of Croatia, but in Vienna and Paris, 8.9 w/m square is allowed in the Republic, while in Vienna and Paris 0.01 w/m square, which means 890 times. For what? Because we haven't changed norms and coordinated them with the meaning of the development of digital society. We're aware that we can't do it without a cell phone, that we can't do it without technology, and we need to develop it. But we also have to warn about the harmfulities and illegalities that teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia in the country that is the first to corrupt the last at the speed of the Internet, and the biggest gains have teleopers in the Republic of Croatia and from these three things everything is evident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138808	I thank my colleague Bull. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138810	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here's what my colleague Bauk said about the problems of the Brač children to get rid of it, I don't think that's really a political question. 1. but first of all, it is one question which is of the human character and character of the children who are away from the coast to get rid of it in this way to have free transportation and I see no reason why so much of the government is resisting children, as far as MOST Club is concerned, we support it, that someone else suggested, regardless of the majority or any other club, minority, it doesn't matter at all, when it comes to children, it should be supported. And I expect the ruling to hear the voice of those children on this proposal that my colleague Bauk has now made here. And indeed that proposal was silent so it wasn't publicly exposed and I think it would be normal and appropriate to accept it and that the government would find a way to do so. to me as through Parliament and the government to find a chance to solve that problem. I was thinking of talking about very important issues as far as Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Mountains, are traffic collapses, oblivion of Dalmatia, projects that have been promised for years, mainly in the Dalmatian Zagora. And we know that there is no traffic resolved in Split itself, that these crowds are unimaginable, absolutely simple man going from Solin to Split, which is basically connected to get to his place of work a mile, two, it takes him from morning to morning a few hours. So everything the government promised at a government meeting in Split last year, a year and two months ago, absolutely didn't move. The verticals of traffic that are very important for the connection of the Dalmatian burn and survival, these are the veins of the housewives, that's the circulation, that's what it should be, that they verticalized the joints on the highway of the Cetina region, i.e. fast road, it's a fast road from Imotski on the highway, it's a fast road connection to Knin and Drniš's compound. The Dalmatian Zagora is simply isolated. I have repeated it countless times, and I have given amendments that have not been accepted, but the government has promised it at a session of the government and in Split. There's absolutely no movement. It has even been mentioned that Kozjak tunnel will start, the mayor has already announced that everything is secured, financial resources, but we do not see the works except that it closes at 10:00 in the evening exit to Vučevica. Which means if this is the development of the Dalmatian Zagora and the promised projects that are very important, the road connection of the Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva was the source of human resources, so it was the largest demographic potential of the Republic of Croatia and today we have the Dalmatian Zagora empty exclusively because that part of Croatia i.e. Dalmations forgotten. Besides, here you will now see for the days of the alka we invite you all, we are friendly, come to Sinjska Alka, you will see what is tradition, all the way to one Assembly representative. Those who were aware of how proud Sinjani, Cetinjani and the entire Dalmatian Zagora are of Sinjska Alka, of their history, of their tradition, of their culture, of the preservation of faith in these areas and the survival of these people. But the only thing left is painting, painting key political elites, promises made, mostly in the election years. And this one's elective again because we're choosing the president but that's not enough for the people. Let me just say, only the Cetina landscape without the rest of the Dalmatian mountain per capita is larger than Ličko-Senj County by the number of inhabitants there are more and the area is larger than Međimurje County. It's a huge area with huge development potential, not only a tourist that hasn't been used, but we have a huge potential for water resources, in terms of agriculture, livestock, gastro offer, we have fields that are not irrigated and the key problem is, I wanted to point out at the end... , I call on Croatian roads to solve the problem of circular flow in the centre of the city of Sinja, D-1, to make either a guide or a superintendent, because people, Sinjani, our grandfathers who go to school live where walking crossings on the state road D-1 where the busiest state road in the Republic of Croatia is a life-threatening road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian road if you do not take it is a shame and we will all take action to protect our children and drivers in the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138811	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138812	We are now going to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138813	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am not going to talk today about our prime minister who fought in Brussels for his career, for his position because I've talked about it before, in the end everything that we here at HS as MOST's spoke about will prove true, from this coalition of the CNS and HDZ when they told us we were lying, so it proved to be true to the here of our prime minister, whose own interests and ambitions are much more important than the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I will also not talk about Minister Kuštević, who should have gone after us a long time ago because he stole the people's referendum, which is much more dangerous than the malversions he was doing with the land, which means that as a minister he declared 40,000 signatures invalid, but that's the problem of HDZ and prime ministers, that's not our problem. What I'm going to talk about because I'm asked by people in Virovitica is the case, so the disappearance of money from the city's register. So, the Mayor of Virovitica Ivica Kirin called for this afternoon an extraordinary and urgent session of the Virovitica City Council with one single item on the agenda, a decision on the authority of the mayor for the lay-arranged management of the investigation into the money that disappeared from the city register, and the subsequent death of Sinisha Palm. Given that the circumstances of the disappearance of money and the death of a city official, Ivica Kirin, on a personal initiative, was to request an exemption from the decision in this case, the criminal part at the expense of the city of Virovitica's budget, but he is on the contrary seeking Pharaoh's authority to manage the whole procedure. The Pharaohic powers that might further cover up evidence that is highly doubtful of his knowledge of the whole case. Namely, based on a statement by Ivica Kirin himself, traces of crime and cases that may serve in determining the facts were obviously contaminated before or immediately after the mayor of Kirin filed a criminal complaint against the late Cynthia Palm. Now, a month after the tragic event, the mayor also seeks formal Pharaohic authority even though he has so far had the informal powers of Pharaoh because in times of crisis he needs a firm hand, we need a real boss to help the people and institutions in lighting, in quotes of true truth. So Mayor Kirin, after setting up his commission to investigate how the money he owns disappeared from the city he manages, is now asking for it to be held at today's session of power and for all other actions. He allegedly wants to make a decision that can take all activities, make the necessary acts and decisions, and include companies to provide legal assistance and represent the city of Virovitica in court proceedings, audit the business and determine the business, all to compensate for the damage done to the town of Virovitica. Honestly, I personally fear for Mr. Kirin, if he will break under the burden of new obligations and powers. It is hard for Mayor Kirin to inform anyone of his actions because the Most City Councilor of Virovitica Darko Leskovic is also barely able to file criminal charges against Kirin City Attorney General for suspected assistance in committing a serious theft and embezzlement. In fact, it's pretty hard to believe that the mayor of one city has not noticed in all those years the disappearance of that kind of money from the city's register for which he is, of course, responsible as mayor. I went to our councilman Darko Leskovic about 10 days ago to give support, and only then did we succeed, so when I came with him as some kind of support, I managed to file a criminal complaint against the mayor who again at the emergency session today is trying to prevent the transparency of the investigation of the money that went missing from the city that he is managing. So MOST will question such a arbitrary decision this time and try to prevent the edge of Kirin from acting as a great investigator, we know that it has failed to become even while it was at the head of the MUP, but here I am still as a political option here in HS, but throughout the Republic of Croatia we continue to fight for transparency as much as it is not popular, and perhaps dangerous and here I am supporting all who are fighting to enlighten the truth in this affair in the town of Virovitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138814	On behalf of the Club of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Within exactly a week in the Zagreb Assembly will decide on the general urban plan of the city of Zagreb and should also say that it is happening in the local committees and in the city districts of voting on GUP and what is interesting that in some urban districts and local committees Bandic's representatives reject GUP. That's right, for example. The day before yesterday, in the town district of Nesedgrad-Vrapce, I reject the GUP because Milan Bandic there did not give up the construction of a scrapie and even Bandic's representatives did not have the courage to vote for the GUP because the scraper of waste that citizens were able to prevent by their activities and protests for a short while, again, through the changes of the GUP is trying to contradict the city's neighbourhood. The GUP was adopted without a public debate and without the consent of the profession and we have already made this public at a press conference that we have presented to journalists. It should also be said that the Manhattan project on the Sava, in fact, is one story about Serbian politician Palma who visited the city of Zagreb and that the visit to this politician was not a courteous one, but that it was obviously the conclusion of some jobs and that the project, which is otherwise in Belgrade in full swing, Belgrade at Sava, was burdened with many corruption affairs and also, without the consent of the profession. The Independent Lists Most will join the protest along with other political options, which will be in front of the Zagreb Assembly within a week. We believe that there is no need to look at the narrow party interest or ideological differences we may have with these political options, but we also believe that the public interest of the citizens of Zagreb is ahead of party interests. So on Wednesday, Bandic's representatives and HDZ voters will decide whether the city of Zagreb will slowly turn into a Balkan front or become a European modern, Western European town. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138816	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. Since we have exhausted all the debates or presentations of club positions, we are going back to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138817	We're going to a third debate. Dear colleague Bozo Petrov on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138818	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to begin my free speech by quoting a well-known Croatian politician who is here in the Croatian Assembly in the rush of overconfident "I can do what I want." I think today we should still complete that quote with one national wisdom because the old people said or said "You can do what you want, but you can't do as long as you want." In this spirit of national wisdom, we were told in public yesterday that another minister is leaving this government. And after several days of difficulty, trying to relativize his actions, trying to wrap it all up in a whole of a conspiracy because someone allegedly sabotages them, the moment has come to part and unfortunately the resignation has not occurred as an act of political or moral responsibility but as an attempt to minimise perceptional, media damage to the government and HDZ. And the main actors of this story are now former and Prime Minister and have not explained in a single word to date what it is or did not say whether there is anything unacceptable, illegal, immoral in the story of Lovri Kustevic. On the contrary, even after all this, the impression is that Minister Kuščević is leaving as an innocent man who has not earned anything from criticism and attacks, although he himself said there is no doubt about my honorable actions. And that's a message that this government is sending to the public and this phenomenon they're not condemning, but they're putting their other one in a spare position. Well, it's not the Croatian Parliament's jurisprudence. How is it possible that one person is not honorable enough to be a minister, but is honorable enough to be a parliamentary representative? That is why it is important to send a different message here in the assembly today, to make it clear that what Minister Kuščević has done is unacceptable for every conviction, and it is not the solution for him to accept the duties of a parliamentary representative instead of a minister. A man who acquired private property and wealth using a public function. The message is also that the HDZ sees absolutely nothing compromising in the fact that they have this way of functioning perfectly normal and that many Kuštevići are still sitting in their government. And that is why it is clear that by leaving Lovra Kuštević what is surely an affair has not come to an end. And we all know there's still an affair in this government and we remember the affairs. Barbecue affair, Mercedes affair, the affairs won't end. The only thing that makes this government recognizable, the only thing that makes it consistent is the word affair. The word affair has literally become a political everyday life in Croatia because of this government. The only thing they're dealing with is affairs. And in all this government can fail. But what you can be sure of isn't going to make an appointment is that the affairs will be dealt with until the end. Is there an end to affairs? There is. The election will come sooner or later. The people will have the opportunity to give their judgment on them and on all of us. It is therefore our task to show that we are not all the same as the ruling one is all of us, Lovro Kuščević, the task is to show the rest of us that corruption and customerism cannot rule in Croatia. They eat up Croatian society, exhaust it and drive people out of Croatia. And that is why we must clearly and loudly today say that corruption and clientism must come to an end, or we will root out corruption and clientism, or eventually disappear as a nation, lose the notion of good and bad, agree to unscrupulous and immoral behavior means just that, disappear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138819	Okay. We're moving on, next up is colleague Miro Bulj. Here is colleague Miro Bulj, taking a stand in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138820	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I will talk here about cleaning women who are engaged in Split Airport who have not paid their salaries or have been paid mostly messy and late. The problem has been going on for months, late payments, contributions are not paid, employers' payrolls are not properly delivered, working conditions are catastrophic and more than embarrassing, individual workers are fired, we are reading here today, and I was at the airport a few days ago 90 will not work and there is no one to clean up the meaning of Split Airport. When boasting the director means the director of Split Airport, Lukša Novak with the number of flights in Split at the same time the slaver's relations with workers working at a temperature of +50 who clean not only the airport of the room, but clean areas around planes where the money paid by the airport is double the temperature and of course the money paid by the airport is paid by the company iOS International Outsourcing Services, the roof owner is Dudu who made the payments. So we have here an external company paid by Split Airport, money, however that money is either shared with co-owners or its leaders and owners, and the owners are the Republic of Croatia, Split-Dalmatia County, the town of Kaštela, the town of Trogir, the town of Split and I said the director of Lukša Novak. These workers were literally without a kuna working under the most difficult conditions and now in the heart of the tourist season when we are discussing labour imports here, relief means the conditions for us to come here to work these women were working without a kuna. The same company in the 2018 financial report is evident that this company had, this employer of IOS Stjepan, Stijepo Car, here to name it, he showed the profits of the company and did not pay the money. And I'm wondering here now, when was the Istanbul Convention then we talked about the rights and protection of women. Who was protecting those women? So the Istanbul Convention was adopted so that someone could present themselves in the European institutions so that today they could have some place for certain persons like this Council of Europe's secretaries. Who cares about these women? Who cares about women of Dalmatian women who have not received their salaries is 10 years old. The prime minister here said on my question that this problem will be solved, no one cares about them. So here's one absurd, a company that's on the outside, so it's got a profit of the show, and it doesn't pay the cleaning girls, women who make a bloody living out there, and I told them there's about three thousand kunas that don't pay off and work-non stop, day, night. So it was neither in original capitalism nor in slavery. I would just point out here that there is one solution here and the solution is from this cause, so the airport gives money to that ISO company owner of Stiepa Cara who does not pay the workers. Where's the money? Money or share these are all owners, or their heads of county and cities and states. And to prevent that, which is why even an external company why we don't, why don't we hire these women either permanently or temporarily if necessary if it's in the tourist season. And we don't fill people's pockets with people walking around, driving in the most expensive cars, having villas, cottages or anything else. And this is the most recent example of how to exploit these women at Split Airport, this is now public and we all know, so go and see, I was at the airport now being a dirty airport because there is no one to clean because women have simply raised their voice. And as Parliament, I call here Oleg Butkovic, the minister who was coming down and promising new terminals, new development to go down, to take the Minister of Pension Work Pavic and to solve this problem, the problem is resolute but it is obviously much sweeter money that workers should get for their salaries, and apparently they share for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138821	Thank you, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138822	Next statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honored colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138823	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, on several occasions I spoke here about health services problems in Dalmatia, especially in Split-Dalmatia County. The fact that the entire region of Dalmatia has been burned since the fusified home of health, as well as the island, mainly in the tourist season of our coast, there are no tourist infirmarys, regardless of certain conclusions that have been accepted, which I suggested at the the thematic session of the Split-Dalmatia County, however, the bigger the problem is the current state of health in Split-Dalmatia County, throughout the area. I will only say how long the battle against elites in the health of Split-Dalmatia County, where neither the mayor nor the directors of the home of health, before Failing, Petric, now Raja, absolutely does not care about the state in which they are in technical condition, and of course do not take care of the medical staff, especially on the example that I will now mention in addition to the lack of pediatricians, radiologists, which are missing doctors, nurses, tell you a problem of the sonjska stationer in the establishment of the home of health. So we have 5 rooms, so 12 beds should be, but only 9 is used, for what? Is it of 5 rooms 2 rooms where they should lie in a stationary the most difficult patients, simply when the rain inside is a flood, it is dangerous for the life of electricity not to turn on the light and those two rooms are empty no matter what they boast and what the only role of Split-Dalmatia County with education is that co-owners, which are the founders of schools, are the founders of health homes, but the funds that are decentralized towards the homes of health are not invested where they need to, so that people before 9 so that people of those parts, mainly my Cetinski region, where they were 10 years ago, intended to be. Closed the birthplace, here now the Sinj Alka will soon, they didn't care if it was even Sinjska alka, but they can paint themselves on Sinjska alca, boast, of course what I always mention, we are a friendly people, we invite all of you to Sinjska alka but those who have abolished our birthplace, however, also behavior, means the right to give birth, but also the right to a dignified death, and that relationship is disastrous. That's what I was talking about in the county, in this I talked about as a county councilman, the thematic session, Mayor Boban absolutely does nothing, the new director of Petric was the undertaker of the health home of the Split-Dalmatia County, the new one who was his deputy Raja is doing even worse, the only thing they do is staffing it, but staffing in the administration of the home of health, not medical staff, so that the decentralised funds that would have to improve the services, health services to the people of the region, absolutely don't care, and this example of the stationary, an obvious example. Whenever it rains, storms, floods, medical personnel are at risk, patients are at risk, and these are the most severe patients. I am sending a message from here following numerous warnings to Minister Kujundzic, who boasts of Zagvozdu pardon, who boasts of large investments in the home of health, absolutely no one cares about health services in the Split-Dalmatia County except for the way the recording came out in the media in which one of the members of the administrative council at home of health says that he is employed from porters to doctors of the tribba ask the prime minister. Ministers Kujundzic do something for the people of Dalmatia Zagora, Sinja and the Cetina region so that they can be born with dignity and die with dignity, protect the medical staff who are at risk of living in those rooms, protect that people and allow and ensure the survival of the people in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138824	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138825	The next club of representatives is the respected, club of independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138826	Dear colleagues and colleagues, namely, at the current afternoon, the minister answered questions on two occasions, first colleague Jeckov, after her colleague, Glasovac, and therefore he would like to point out once again something that seems extremely important to me. It is clear from everything Minister Lovro Kuščević says when we talk about reforms of local self-government, so it is clear that this government does not want to deal with this and it is clear that this kind of territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia will remain until further notice, so 20 counties, 555 + 1 unit of local self-government. In that sense, the municipalities remain and survive. My personal position and I have said it many times, I am one of those who believe that no small municipality in the Republic of Croatia was too high and a large majority of them, despite the modest means, have achieved their goals. I'm sorry when individuals from the government, in this case the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, have, and even now, I find it difficult to say publicly what they actually intend to do in the future and what they do not intend to do with this kind of structure. And in that sense, she's my minister, and I'm surprised at her answers again today, and I'm calling her again to get rid of that job, again she's saying that it's possible only to abolish the status of individual schools, so not to terminate schools, but to move the status of parent schools into areas. But then I ask the minister, the minister, and then tell Minister Lovre Kustević that he should consider abolishing the municipalities, so what if the municipality has no home school, so what kind of municipality is it, what the municipality actually has, we have a church, we have a school, a DVD this firehouse, and depending on what condition it is. We need to invest in our schools, schools have to be shrines, schools have to be the beginning of life in every place, if the community center has no parent school, then that community center doesn't have to or should exist. That's the whole catch, and that's why I don't understand why the minister insists on it again. And another problem. So a very small number, a one-digit number, can count which units of local self-government took over decentralised functions in the field of health and education. They don't have any money, so they didn't take it. The Minister sent this notice to the founders only. It's mostly counties and bigger cities. The municipalities can't even participate in this part. I can go to a public hearing right now, but it's not up to the municipalities to participate in a public debate. It's up to the municipalities to take a political stand. I'm taking it now. I say I was the head of my community. Now it's my fellow junior fellow denominator. We don't give our school to the minister. We don't give it at any cost. Tell me, let Minister Kuščević say - you won't have a municipality. It's okay. It's a political stance. So we'll see how justified he is. But saying this way you won't have a parent school is out of the question. It's just not going to go away, and that's why I'm calling on the minister to reconsider this one more time. Let him do what I support and personally and what he does well, which is modernization of schools, it is that every child has the same opportunity for education because we see that every day with education a lot of things doesn't fit us. We see how important it is to ensure vertical and horizontal passing in our system. Ministers, tell me, so here's the deal, if she crosses many today, so she doesn't graduate from higher education because she's too demanding. Because some European countries have taken advantage of that advantage. Our education system that is good is simply blocked. He's with all the administration starting with the teachers themselves is blocked. So nothing helps teachers and students to make progress, that the simpler they develop those abilities they have. So, Minister, that's what you're dealing with. Of course, with all these advanced technologies that you want to bring into school and leave school to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138827	Thank you very much and next, the next Club of Representatives is that club of Independent Representatives on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138828	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and these days, as well as throughout the year, we mark a number of military redistributive actions in which many of our citizens have given what is most important to them, which is their lives and their health in the defence of the Republic of Croatia and not just those who were soldiers, but also civilians, and this is today the anniversary of the attack on Zagreb. This obliges all of us to make the Republic or the state in which the rule of law works as soon as possible, in which we all work in the same direction, so that this country will shed light on the face, so that the EU, among all the countries that we are seeking, is side by side, and for this reason today I am a little shocked by one of the news that I saw in the media, namely, the title was, 222 professors in some way escaped from the initiative spent by the Minister of Education in search of false diplomas. That's not so strange because the media likes sensations, however, I'm surprised by the statement by Mr. Stipic's unionist who says he's not surprised if that's the reason, if that's exactly why people had fake degrees, so now they've given the wind five. You see, this is not how the rule of law works, this is how and if there is one professor who didn't leave for that reason, who went on the wave of all of these today who are leaving our country, then it's not a good message because we're embarrassing this professor, we're embarrassing all of us, 222 is not a small number, that's not what a union leader should talk about. What's still a difficult circumstance in that whole story is that the principals complain that colleges don't want to believe it, they don't want to believe it, or whatever? The Minister must not be lonely in this business, I support her in this business, so, we need to clear these things up, not only at the Ministry of Science and Education, in all ministries and there should the Government of the Republic of Croatia make it clear that they will provide as much resources as necessary to clarify these things, so we throw these things at our people, every professor who today has decided to leave this country, even, and they say that not only because people don't have enough means to live, but for some other reasons they know because they don't believe in this country's legal system anymore, they don't want to pray to one of us politicians tomorrow so that his children will get hired, and we now say that they're running because they have fake diplomas, so fake diplomas should be investigated, but not in this way, let it be one systematic work and let it be the role of the Government of the Republic. And I'm going back on, and colleague Curray mentioned it, regardless of what he mentioned, but we can't pollemize here, but I want to say, I support the minister in her efforts. However, if we set things up like this, which the municipality will not have a home school if there are no children, so what, so what, so it didn't need a post office of the bank, it didn't need a bus line, it didn't need a school, and what the municipality needs, and then we need municipalities and I repeat it again to Minister Divjak, let's talk to Minister Kuštević, let's agree whether we need 555 + that one unit of local self-government or not, my personal position, I'll repeat it, every municipality in the Republic has fulfilled its role, so let's not treat the municipalities, not all the founders, that you all know well, the founders are just counties and larger cities, those who could take over these decentralised functions. The Minister has no bad intentions, but it's a bad message, so let the Government sit down, let it think about this, and let it be asked at the end and the municipalities and the cities in which I still have children, and let's be proud of being children, and by having the school stronger, it's an opportunity for the children to come or say it like this, the mayor of the municipality, so who should he invite on the day of the municipality, no more head of the school, no more head of the bank, no more invited, no more calling himself, so that tomorrow it won't be, if the bishop makes a decision, so there's no need for a church, so it won't be a church anymore, and eventually the head of the municipality will celebrate the day of the municipality itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138829	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138830	The 10th is the debate of the club of independent representatives and colleagues Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138831	Thank you, Mr. President. Is Croatia a country where justice exists? You hit a child on foot, you get punished, you drive without a driver's license, you get punished, you abuse power, you abuse authority, you position to spy on your wife, you spy on your mistress, you get punished, you have a conflict of interest, you get somebody a job that you pay for public money, and in return you get a expensive car for small money, or, say, you also secure someone's job, so that same firm builds a house, you get punished or punished. It may be in some kind of, some kind of fair country, but in Croatia it is simply not so. In Croatia, if you are a member of HDZ or if you are in Kum or in business with someone who is a member or a member of HDZ, you are not punished but, for example, are punished. You'll be a minister or a representative in the assembly. This is because Croatia is not just, but a kidnapped state, in Croatia the conflict is not between the political left and the political right. The conflict is between those who have kidnapped Croatia and abuse it for their own benefit and all other citizens and citizens who want to live in Croatia, but can only live in it. To live because if there is no justice, if the laws don't apply to everyone, if they make you work longer for less money, if you can't afford a roof over your head because there you live in a country where 62% of people work for a salary less than a national average, it's not life, it's life. I want to tell the citizens here that things will not change on their own, there is no Messiah in politics that will appear and save us. Power is always in the hands of the citizens at the end of the day. Passivity, not going to the elections, has always been in the interest of Croatia's kidnappers, corrupt people, those who act like they're above the law. Change starts with the election. Every election is actually a civil referendum, and the question in that referendum is. Do you want life or life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138832	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. After the EU elections, the European Parliament elections, we return to our regular work. I would like to congratulate everyone who has elected a seat in the EU parliament, especially our colleagues and colleagues here from the Croatian Parliament. We go now as we do every Wednesday. First of all, there's a speech on behalf of clubs and independent candidates, so I'd like to invite my first, respected colleague, Sinisha Vargo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138833	I would like to thank Mr. President HS, colleagues and colleagues. I also join my congratulations to all our colleagues and colleagues who have voted in the EU Parliament and one of the topics that I hope will be in the EU parliament in the next term of office will be the unification of the right to the health care of all EU citizens and all members and to reduce this difference between the East and the West, the new members and the old members, the North and the South, the East and the West and all those differences that make us because of the geographical, historical, economic and all other reasons, and one of the topics is important for the future period is the issue of cancer. So I'm going to tell you a little bit today in this free presentation about the state of cancer treatment in the Republic of Croatia, especially from the capacity of the president of an informal group of advocates in the fight against cancer. In the world, according to the World Health Organization, 8.2 million die from cancer annually, which is 250 more than tuberculosis, AIDS and malaria combined. In Croatia, there are about 22 500 newly diagnosed and about 14 thousand deaths, making Croatia the second highest rate of mortality from malignancies in Europe. More than 60% of newly diagnosed children under 65 years of age, therefore at productive age, despite claims that the incidence is increasing due to ageing. Croatia has been assessed as a country of a highly effective health system, but very poor at the use of innovative therapies, especially in the area of malignant diseases. According to unofficial and yet unpublished data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the leading cause of death becomes prostate cancer in men, and lung cancer is now second in place, and for women, colon cancer, and breast cancer is now second in place. When we talk about health systems and problems related to cancer treatment, here, I'm going to list some of the problems we're facing. The growing economic burden on the health system, as the largest cost, is the medicines. In some ways, it is an exact claim, but if leading oncologists declare that 30% of the money is wasted in oncology, it should be more rationally accessed and spent. The most common problem is the unnecessary and repeated search, the lack of multidisciplinary teams, in smaller areas patients are most often referred to a surgeon after diagnosis, and only then to an oncologist. There is no protocol where and who should be treated for malignancies, which is why there are significant deviations in the quality of treatment according to geographicality. The low response to national preventive programmes is low. Mammography at 60%, of the planned 75%, the Pope's test is about 45%, and the colon is about 18%, and in some counties it's even below 11%. Patients are very strong, they appear very late with already expressed symptoms in advanced stages of the disease. The problem is also in the treatment protocols because they give out-of-date medicines in the front lines, and expensive innovative medicines, such as lines 3 or 4, when they can no longer be effective. There is a major problem with supportive therapy, antiemetics that are sometimes more expensive than chemotherapy, so there are no prescriptions, pain management, side effects management, nutrition care, about 20% of cancer patients dying from tumour arrest, Croatianly speaking, from hunger. There is no clear path for patients through the health system from suspected malignancies and setting a diagnosis, treatment, monitoring and rehabilitation of palitative care. Public debate is under way in the National Programme against Cancer, written by distinguished Croatian experts led by Prof. Dr. Edward Vrdoljak of KBC Split. The adoption, translation of the plan is expected to significantly reduce the improvement and death of cancer in Croatia, the introduction of a quality programme for prevention and early detection of cancer and a number of other measures that improve cancer treatment in Croatia. The national anti-cancer programme is on the website www.nppr.hr and I announce that Prof. Vrdoljak presented the National Programme against Cancer in HS on 6 July at the 3rd working meeting of the informal group Representatives in the fight against cancer. The aim of our informal group of representatives in HS is to raise awareness of the public and parliamentary representatives in the fight against cancer, to support the sick, and to promote better and better quality lives for those who have won cancer. Finally, from personal experience, I stress the importance of early cancer detection, and I urge you to respond to the call. for a precautionary inspection when you arrive. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138834	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138835	And the final position will be in front of the Club of Independent Representatives Mr. Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138836	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Croatian public. Today is the Day of the Croatian Parliament but yesterday and today is the day in which something special is taking place in the Croatian Parliament and this is especially family and famous to everyone who deals with the philosophy of existence and who knows what it has done. In the Croatian Parliament, we have examples of how nothing is positive. Usually people think that negative realities aren't, that what there isn't is simply not. But that's not the case. What he doesn't have is real. In the Croatian Parliament yesterday, today and most likely tomorrow there will be not all those MPs who, due to social political processes, have suffered a break before history and before their own significance. The results of the elections for the European Parliament have met many of them with the illusion of themselves. It is clear that when a person encounters such an illusion that he must leave a positive reality and in a positive reality, his or her nothingness is now accessible. I am not saying this to iron out and demonstrate the importance of philosophy but to refer the Croatian public to the importance of humanistic and social sciences and humanistic and social disciplines. These days, it is up to the Ministry of Science to sign programming contracts. These software contracts marginalise social and humanistic disciplines. If a person’s social and humanistic sciences are of no importance, he also feels that society and self - understanding and self - meaning and its own humanity are of no importance to him. It is clear that we are a society that has been defined for scientific knowledge involving social and humanistic sciences that the assembly of these days would not be empty but would all, understanding the social processes and humanities, know that the results of these EU parliamentary elections would be exactly what they were. This did not bring these results to any black swans but brought results and led precisely to a methodologically consistent understanding of social processes and understanding of humanistic legality. I call on the Croatian public and I call on the Ministry of Science not to bear witness to such traumatic scenes in the future, where the presence of MPs was nothing but real because their unrealistic ambitions were long present in space, to finance social and humanistic sciences, because in this way they will share knowledge from social and humanistic disciplines with the Croatian public and will lead to understanding of social and historical processes. I'm going to give you another example of understanding the social processes and the legality of humanistic sciences. It's Croatian Parliament Day. Croatia's modern state was created in the historic process of disintegration of the eastern bloc. If we do not know the social legality and if we are away from the humanist postulates, then we will approach the mythical consciousness and the mythical consciousness will then, instead of the process at the beginning of the modern Croatian state, create and place some mythic founder. Croatia participated with Croatian citizens in a historic process that began symbolically with the fall of the Berlin Wall. The Croats did not bring down the Berlin Wall and Croats who understand this through humanistic disciplines, will be able to build their own importance of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens, and Croatian politicians in the process will be realistic, if we do not fall into mythical consciousness and mythical consciousness will lead to the nothingness that is present in this assembly yesterday, today and I expect tomorrow, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138837	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138838	We're going to the last debate, a club of independent representatives and a respected colleague, Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138839	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. They say democracy rests among other things on two basic principles. One of these principles is public interest, information citizens must have when issues are related to public interest. All of us who are elected by citizens and who are acting in certain responsibilities were parliamentary representatives, government officials, mayors and mayors, we must respect this public interest and in the public interest it is certainly objective, true information to the public because if this information to the public is not objective and true, if public information comes down to what the street says, then it is certainly not good. And another thing that is also the foundation of democracy, trust in institutions, institutions that do their job in a professional and fair way. If that trust is not available, things are also transferred to the streets, people don't trust institutions and ultimately, they say it's one of the reasons why people leave this country. In fact, I am saying this in the context of recent events in the town of Virovitica that we only know about on the basis of two statements that Mr. Kirin delivered to the public and one of his statements is that after the trial in the Fimi Media Process, when the stoh gave the press an answer for any further information. So, all the statements that Mr. Kirin made in public, one thing about the fact that the town of Virovitica was damaged by a certain amount, we still haven't, the public is not aware of exactly what amount it was, and another statement in which he strongly accused, unfortunately, the man who tragically interrupted his life, accused him of being a gambling addict and that this was the cause of the disappearance of money. We can freely conclude that Mr. Ivica Kirin, usually happens that people say that to some subject too little or too much, we can freely conclude that Mr. Ivica Kirin has said too little at this point. In fact, it has brought the public into great doubt, what is the amount that has been estranged from the town of Virovitica, in which way and he stated it in his second statement, intends to return money to the city budget, how is it possible to repay money if it is embezzled and what are the methods, sophisticated methods that this money was alienated from? Anyone who knows how the city administration works, it is clear that this is not easy to perform especially if it is speculated in public about the amount of as much as 17 million kunas. The second thing that falls into the eyes here, and when we talk about the business done by the institutions is the statement by both the police representatives and the fact that no autopsy on the late Mr. Palm who was head of the office for economics and finance even though it was a violent death. These two things that stick in the eyes, meaning the amount, the time sequence of events and the absence of an autopsy, create legitimate reactions in the public. What I read on Facebook yesterday, what will happen in the future, is that citizens will organise protests modeling those Banja Luka protests "Justice for David", "Justice for Sinisha". It's in everyone's interest, and I think it's in the interest of Mr. Kirina to make this matter clear as soon as possible, it's not good to ask questions on the street. What was left behind, Mr. Kirin could have called a press conference despite respecting that there is some secrecy due to the course of the investigation, but this secrecy does not prevent Mr. Kirin from pacifying the public, to calm the public down, to say what information the public expects and what are important. If things fall apart on the street tomorrow, it won't be good at all, citizens' trust in institutions can't be left behind. On Virovitica-Podrava County every day, more and more people go away, if this thing, and I personally think, if this thing is covered up, if there is left at this level that people don't get enough information, believe me that it will be a message for many young people to leave this country tomorrow because how can they live in a country where we can't trust institutions that are obliged to protect and public interest and then ultimately, we see that there are unfortunate violent interruptions in the lives of young people, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138840	Next statement of view on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138841	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today has been a media and political requirement and we do not have time to think that today is conditional on what has been happening in Croatia in the last 15 to 20 years. We do not live in today but live in the day of the educational process that began for 15 to 20 years. The world in which we will live in 15 to 20 years depends on what kind of educational process, what kind of reform, curricular reform will begin today and what will take place in Croatian schools. If we only look at the value that is stated and according to which the current reform initiatives should go, there are 8 of them, from identity, integrity to respect and emphasis on the value of health, however, the Constitution lists 11 of such values and values. The difference when we make a comparison, the difference in these three values or values can be defined as the value of the rule of law that is not contained in the documents that should go to school reform, the possibility of living in a multiparty democratic system and non-violence or peace. This element of non-violence or peace that will not be incorporated and which will not be established according to the formation of a future Croatian citizen has not been incorporated until 15 to 20 years, so it is possible that violence and the principal who punished the professor for something he did in a way that he did not do anything else. It's violence that is pedagogical violence, that's violence that is violence against the truth, but it's also a kind of historical violence that, if we don't deal with it, will come back to us in the next 15 to 20 years that we live in. The education system should not rest solely on the so-called so-called. In instrumental knowledge, instrumental knowledge is the knowledge that teaches us that we can do something. They need to rest on the so-called. theoretical knowledge or knowledge within itself, which is the knowledge that enables us to be something, to become. In particular, to become and to be citizens. To become and to be human. Those who became and were citizens, that's the girl and the firefighter who stood up in Supetar, the one who was the instrument of violence, the one who attacked, who decoded a single word as an invitation to move on with violence, he was instrumentalized and his knowledge was instrumental knowledge that corresponds to violence. Those who have opposed violence have this theoretical knowledge or become, they have become something. The value of the world is the value of educational theories and thinking rests on fronesis or prudence, and prudence is the connection of theory and practice. If we do not connect it to be more valuable and can do with it, we will continue to live in the world and in a country that cannot respond to violence and which is experiencing and bending its knees before many political ecstasys, and all these ecstasys begin in one day and end at the end of that day. It is not that we have no role models, even in Croatia, of the teaching mind, by Vuk Pavlovic, who spoke about the meaning of education, education and education, education is exactly this, the possibility of man thinking and understanding himself. Education is the possibility that a person can act in a concrete way and that a person is able to communicate with the value of the future world. Because it's not something that's gone through, it's what's to be raised. So today we live in the future from 15 to 20 years ago. Some of this is also aware of the value of education and of the value of the reform and of the value of education in its works. Without consciousness, without the self-understanding that we will install in all institutions, and start with the education system, we will live in both the future and in 15 to 20 years until the end in a world that will be a world of instrumentalized violence, and we will be instruments of educational violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138842	I would like to thank my colleague, Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138843	The second is on the agenda, on the list of Mr. Stjepan Curaj, excuse me, Tomislav Žagar, who will present the position of the Club of Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138844	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a few days ago I sent a request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for a credible interpretation of Article 29. The agricultural land law. Before I explain the very subject that is important to her to meet the Croatian public, let me just say two principles. When the Agricultural Land Act was passed, Minister Tolusic stressed as the most important newspaper that the availability of agricultural land is being returned to local self-government units, therefore to municipalities and cities. And one of the newspapers in that law was that units of local self-government were able to limit the amount of land that a particular tenant had in his lease. Therefore, it may be in practice to call a tender based on the programme in which individual employees who have so far been leased and up to 500 hectares of land will remain at a limit of only 100 hectares of land. The minister stressed this and we welcome this because many young family farms would reach the land they needed to carry out their activities. On the other hand, we are witnessing events related to Agrokor's plus companies, so whether it is Belje, Pica Vinkovci, VUPIK, according to the chiefs of these units of local self-government, has put pressure on them to sign contract annexes so that these other concessions that these companies have on agricultural land in Eastern Slavonia and because of these concerns and because of the problems that arise on the ground, which warn the units of local self-government, so the municipality primarily referred this request for credible interpretation. Namely, what's this about? I'll try to tell it with my own words as soon as possible. Therefore, when the municipal council adopts a programme for the availability of agricultural land, it shall refer it to public insight, after public consideration all observations shall be received, municipal flowers shall decide on those observations and, according to what the law in Article 29 provides for, complete correspondence, complete documentation shall be sent to the Ministry, the ministry shall grant consent or deny consent, if it gives consent, shall return to the municipal council and the municipal council thereafter adopt a programme of availability to agricultural land. That's how the law according to what people understand, interprets. However, ministry representatives say no, some municipal council after public insight at the same time, when it is shown about the remarks made, let it adopt the programmes and then send the adopted programme to the ministry for consent, in other words, such an interpretation of the ministry is actually said the ministry has the last word. Let's get back to the problem from the beginning of the story. In this case, if the council does not act in such a way that Agrokor's companies, that their country remains, then the ministry can deny consent or the first example, if someone who has lost 200, 300, 400 ha of agricultural land that is no longer leased, he can complain because it has not been handled in accordance with the law, so he can bring down the entire competition and then those who have won the country in this contest, so we are talking about small OPGs, remain a bond of the country and I have led this request, I hope that the local self-government units can indeed dispose of agricultural land as well as of the new law, if it is not the whole story that Minister Tolusic, with which he has actually decided to return to the city and to the government that he has fully spoken to the ministers. some are affected by what programs they don't. So, hopefully this, this thing will be solved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138845	Dear colleague Marko Vučetić on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138846	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian public met with one piece of information, which is that the fatigue of Mato Mikic, the last mayor of Zagreb during Yugoslavia, as well as the mayor of Zagreb who owed Zagreb in a spatial sense is almost the same way as Vjeceslav Holjevac did. He, these two names made it possible for Zagreb to have the continuity of development and for the citizens of Zagreb and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to relate to the area that gives them urbanity. When a man dies and not a city dies, urbanity and modernity are possible, however, Zagreb faces one announced death that could be the death of the contemporaryity and death of Zagreb's urbanity. The death was contained in this general urban plan, which speaks of two former zones. One former zone is the hypodromic zone, another former zone is the Zagreb Welsh zone. When it became former zones, Zagreb became a former city, Zagreb became also in terms of urbanity, in terms of modernity, it became a crematorium. He loses all the city codes, the citizens of Zagreb stop being citizens because they no longer have the point to which they will be treated and who will give them their identity. What is happening in space is extremely important for the formation of civil consciousness and for the possibility of life. People who are conscious of themselves, who understand themselves and who treat themselves as themselves, they die by individual death and what they do in space allows space, society and culture to develop. People who experience themselves as he is, and this is the current mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic who cannot think of himself as himself but as himself and when this pathology that can be interesting to us from a psychopathological, anthropological, philosophical, sociological level that man has a problem meeting with himself, that he is in a state of individual Crucifixion, it is really interesting to observe but when such a crucible encounters in space, when such a crucible enters the urban plan, then we have a former zone, we have a former city, we have a former urbanity and we have a former opportunity to develop something. That's what Zagreb is threatening in July. So that this body would not only be legislative, that this body would be the one that has a compassionate ear to the needs of space and city, was taken care of by the Independent Representatives Club, which in 15 days will organise the the thematic session, invite experts, space experts, experts who can counter what is happening, who know what is the link between human life and the life of the city. And in 15 days we will hold the thematic session and offer the citizens conclusions and see how responsibly, not at the level of the appeal, but responsibly to the life of the city and the life of the Republic and in which we can bear that responsibility to the death of responsibility, to the death of the city, and when it comes to the mayor, we can talk about something described in the manuals of many, which is, in the chapter on the archaic type of man. It's not the archaic type of man's fault that he's archaic, it's the blame of those who allow him to live in space as a crucible and death space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138847	Now it's the club of independent representatives and colleagues Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138848	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about a subject that is very rarely spoken in the Croatian public space or when spoken, in principle in terms of, the current situation is not good, it should be fixed but everything remains that should be fixed. The topic is also important because in recent times and also in the future it will be quite current, recently it has been discussed, the truth, it has been in the context of the case of Minister Kuštević, who misread but draws well. It well outlines politics and these governments towards regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia. Another topic that will appear to be current in the coming period is already announcing one of the candidates for the president of the Republic of Croatia who says changes to the constitution are important. Of course, he says it according to what he wants and wants to change or increase the powers of the President of the Republic of Croatia. What kind of amazes me is that this candidate is coming from Slavonia, we should also remember the 2014 initiative, the truth of a regional party who wanted to enter the Constitution for the first time and the concept of the region, which is important for Slavonia but let's take the turn. Why is regionalization important? Well, not because it is now, and politically it is often imposed, which is important for HDZ to have as many mayors as possible, so that this argument should be taken to HDZ in the political sense of their success. Regionalisation is important, ladies and gentlemen, because of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Only a small insight or a little superficial analysis of the data published by FINA regularly on the economic picture of the Republic of Croatia, about the economy by counties is quite visible that today's counties cannot be carriers of the development of regions for which they are designated, not because they do not want it, not because the mayors are incompetent but simply fiscal capacity and all that has been given to them in power, they make it impossible. On the other hand, if we look at the structure of the economy, also according to FINA data, then things are much clearer to us. In other words, almost all counties of their income are based solely on aid, less than 50% of their incomes are realised themselves, most of which are based on assistance, assistance from central states and with this structure of the central state can only be made by laws that re-examination the economy, to make such laws possible for the counties to perform their regular functions and, possibly, if one succeeds, not by entering there, not only by mentioning the city of Zagreb, if one manages to help and some economy. 428 municipalities, 127 cities. Personally, it's not much, but it's all satellites that need to spin around. 4 cities, Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek must be the centres, the centres of economic development. The government admitted by project Slavonia that it was necessary, why did the government call the project Slavonia? What the Government is afraid of and what politicians are afraid to say in public space is an administrative unit or administrative region, it is told to statistical regions of course in terms of withdrawing funds from EU funds, but if we look at each other in person and we wonder how successful we are, how successful our units of local self-government are, how successful the counties are then we see that the situation is not the best. Let the municipalities and cities remain but let us form such regions that these municipalities and cities will truly be a driver of development. Here again I return of course what hurts me most, 4 Slavonia County, Brod-Posavina, Virovitica-Podravska, Požega-slavonska and Vukovar-Srijemska lags fat below the average of the Republic of Croatia in economic terms, only Osijek-Baranja performances and deal well with these challenges. There are, of course, certain economic operators in that county, but first of all, that is the city of Osijek, the city of Osijek must be a Slavonian metropolis, the city of Osijek must be a driver of the development of Slavonia and around the city of Osijek everything must be spinning and it is simple mathematics. This has already been adopted by some advanced countries in this regard. That solution can't be made overnight, but for God's sake, let's start this process, so let's talk about public space sometime. Experts, many of us agree when we talk about it, but when it comes to public speaking, everyone is afraid, of course, of that political development, there is, above all, Istria, and I will say that there is no fear, especially for Slavonia because Slavonia can expect development if she is given an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138849	6th debate Club of Independent Representatives Tomislav Žagar Tomislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138850	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to open one more topic that may not be so important at this time but could certainly be significant in the future and inform the Croatian public that I have made a request for a credible interpretation of Article 29. A law on the availability of agricultural land. That request was on the committee responsible, the Committee on Agriculture. There, the majority of votes were rejected, 6 votes were against, 4 for, and there is counterpart Panenic, who is chairman of the board. We warned the committee about what the request says, and that is, a certain legal uncertainty that can happen to units of local self-government, that is to say to municipalities and cities based on Article 29 of the real proposal for a land-based programme and, ultimately, on the basis of the agreement of the ministry, issue a final version of the programme or in this case how the ministry interprets it and therefore refused this request and said that there is no need for credible interpretation of the ministry says that the law is clear enough and that in fact units of local self-government, municipalities and cities send a prepared programme to the ministry for consent and afterwards carry out a tender. Let's get back to the beginning of the story, the whole idea and everything that we've heard here in Parliament as representatives and citizens and, of course, our family holding was about returning to the units of local self-government management of agricultural land. We've had it in the past, we've had a time when it's not like that, and now it's been done again. But what you can notice in practice and tones come from your political spectrum, so not about who the opposition is at the moment and who the position is, believe me, all the chiefs have to express themselves so, raised tones because they've done a great job, it turns out that the ministry gave units of local self-government to do this big job, when they did, when they had to call the competitions, says the ministry we stand behind these tenders, but you know how we gave instructions, that and representatives of the ministry claims, we gave the instructions, but the instructions can never be in the ranks of the law or stand behind the law. As a result, I continue to think that we colleagues and colleagues from the opposition and who have been on the board and who have considered this problem several times, we believe that the units of local self-government are still in danger, but let the units of local self-government go, all the young family farms that may win the country in this way, but after possible complaints, when the competition is annulled, they will remain without that country and will even have to return eventually the incentives that they have received depending on how the legal process takes place. That fear remains and trust me, it's not harmless. We hope and believe that the ministry is right this time but the circumstances and the historical circumstances that have happened do not give us much encouragement to do so because it is to assume that anyone who at this time has a huge amount of land and a huge amount of land in Slavonia is, say 300 ha, let them have up to 500 ha, that he will not leave the country so easily to be taken over by someone else and this law and the minister has announced it and therefore we have welcomed this law, allowing young OPGs especially those who do not have land to reach the country. If they come to the country, and then they are legally left without the country again, we expect that they will blame the municipal chiefs and the municipal commissioners cannot be guilty because in this case the ministry, the ministry that made the next decision, we have the last word on the programme and we take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138851	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138852	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will talk briefly about a subject that will be very current these days, not just because these days will be current, but because it really concerns our future. According to the press, we could find out off the record that the results of the state's graduation were extremely bad. So, every year, they're worse every year, this year they're much worse than last year, primarily when it comes to testing from mathematics and Croatian language, where I think only 60% of the students have satisfied the math exam, the high school students 80%, I think that high school students and, I'm talking about level A, and level B of the same high school students 80%, something in vocational schools is slightly more than 70%. To get things straight down to the end, I'm one of those guys who thinks a national prom like this doesn't need to, this is not the state's graduation. In 2008, when the national prom was introduced to school, Minister Primorac was not introduced by EU pressures, but simply wanted to do something, and then a centre for external evaluation was formed and it was indeed a centre for external evaluation, but what is the problem with that centre, if compared to the house, then the centre for external evaluation with the project of state graduation should be a roof. The problem, however, is that the roof stands independently of the building, the entire system of education and education. It's like we've put 4 beams in, and we've put that external evaluation system above it as some kind of roof, roof construct that's going to give us answers at what level our education system is. But what's going on? We get a symptom, we see that something isn't bad, but no one can answer what's not bad in our education system and why this is happening to us. And precisely because of that feedback, the state's graduation isn't good. From the point of view of vertical passability and vocational and vocational school students is not significant, it does not make it significantly more difficult for them to pass through, but it is clear that some colleges say enough is level B, students pass it, even with excellent success, but then those students who have passed level A are in a better position because they have, gain more, more points. So she's not even in that part of it doesn't give equal terms. And he can't give equal terms. State graduates say it is an objective study, an examination and learning knowledge, and because of inflation of these grades themselves, five, but on the other hand, the study of the education system. And let's agree with that, I don't mind, let's say it's an objective, objective way of questioning, but it's not the same and it can't be. We in the Republic of Croatia today have high school kids who are hungry. Why? Because high school has no resolved system as true in primary schools, nor is there the most poor, no system of warm meals solved, a system of high school nutrition. High school is not mandatory, we in the Republic of Croatia the last degree of education is meant to be an eight-year-old school that is mandatory, which is not free, we have to point out the same thing, it's said that it's free, but it's not free for parents and then we have a high school that's not mandatory and then we have a national graduation, we say equal for everyone. It's not the same for everyone, not everyone lives in equal families, not all their parents share the same level of education, it doesn't have equal income, and that's why national graduation falls on that test. And another thing, because of university autonomy, colleges can choose which other specific skills they will question in students anyway. In other words, national prom, it's not, it's not enough for them to enroll in the desired college. And then what else is going on at the National External Valuation Centre? Here, now we can read, people were correcting those tests in the high-temperature building, the truth told them, so even the students aren't in a better situation. Many complain that they didn't actually know the way these interrogators were chosen, many applied, but some were chosen. There are a lot of questionnaires around national graduation, a lot of strangers, but what's crucial doesn't give us feedback on the state of education in our, the state of our education system and what we need to change in the education system. And what we seem to be, we send our students, our people contradictory messages. On the one hand we say here we're missing a waiter, cook, enroll in vocational schools, and then on the other hand we're pushing them with the state's graduation because it's the only way they can go through it vertically later. Why do they in life and ultimately and the minister emphasize it and I support it, lifelong learning, why would they cut off their way of progress in this lifelong learning? We need to send a clearer message to young people, involve teachers and all people who are interested in this process in order for the state's graduation to make sense, otherwise this is how I think it should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138853	I thank my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138854	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138855	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here since we are still on the Easter week, I use the opportunity to congratulate Easter on everyone who celebrates this holiday, which is a holiday that offers us all: one hope, one new chance, one future and a future view. And the question is, does this government offer hope, offers a better life to the Slavonian village and the entire village in Croatia, or to people living in rural areas? I dare say no. Especially in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, we say that this government seems to be the one that will shut down the last lantern in Slavonia. It's more argumentative, and I'll just mention some. If there is a strategic branch of the agriculture economy in Croatia, then it should be treated accordingly. We see that this government has already been in power for more than two years, and the agricultural development strategy has only now begun to be developed. And in parallel, we are growing imports of agricultural products that were around 2.7 billion euros for 2018 and exports of only 1.2 billion euros. It's a deficit of over a billion and a half euros. And now, instead of having our own home ham on the Easter table, home-made cooking, homemade eggs, beef and other vegetables, the young onions most of them came from imports, and these figures confirm it. And statistics from the border crossings in Slavonski Brod, Stari Gradišca, Oresja or Županja, and there in the eastern part of the area say that more and more of our citizens are going to buy exactly agricultural products across borders. And instead of buying from our domestic producers here, unfortunately because of the economic situation, because of the lagging of Slavonia average salary in Slavonia lags behind the average of the Republic of Croatia more than 20.30% in some parts. No jobs. Young people are evicting, and the prime minister of the government today speaks of the great success of an interstate agreement on the export of food products, and even mentions milk and Minister Tolusic is sludingly talking about the possibility of exporting milk to China. Unfortunately, most of the milk producer has shut down, sold out their dairy cows. We heard already today there used to be over 60,000 dairy producers in the Republic of Croatia, and today there are less than 5,000. It is a reality and there is no word about us having enough milk production for our own needs, let alone for export. And these traumas that are happening around the dairy sector have, in particular, now exploded through the eve of co-financing of dairy construction equipment in Croatia where Minister Tolusic happily signed contracts, including for one milkmaker 7.4 million kuna that you can imagine in 2016, stopped working. So I'm asking the public here, Minister or Prime Minister, who gave the grounds that someone could get the equipment and further production in that dairy plant if she stopped working in 2016 and was in financial trouble? Who controlled these financial documents would also like to see it if the Croatian public knew it. Of course, the head of the municipality says – it is good for the dairy to be restored and that manufacturers have to hand over the milk to someone. But unfortunately, no more producers, no more cows, no more milk in that village in our Slavonian village. And there's no reason why he's gone, and because our farmers, especially cattlemen, can't make it to state agricultural land. It's been two years since the new Agricultural Land Act was adopted here in the Parliament. The rules were subsequently passed. The mayors of the municipalities have delivered the available programmes, but unfortunately most of them or I dare say more than 80% still at the ministry, because the minister and his associates are not doing their job and have not returned the state-owned agricultural land programmes to municipalities that they can call a tender. And we're particularly bothered by me and the HSS to put pressure on 29 local self-government units to sign concession agreements on Forte's new group of heirs to Agrokor even though we know that not all obligations to the state have been met. I will mention only more than 60 million kuna loans to HBOR which Agrokor and the companies have not returned, and our peasant can't win a new contract unless he's paid for the last kuna and of course we're against shutting down schools in those rural areas, especially in Slavonia, because it would really be shutting down the last lanterns in Slavonia because when you don't have a school, a veterinary clinic, a post office, then you don't have a village, if that's the interest of this government, then let's put out the last lantern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138856	In accordance with Article 249, it is time to make a statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, i.e. Clubs. The first is on behalf of the club of representatives of HSS and Democratic counterpart Zeljko Lenart. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138857	I thank the Honorable Vice President, here we have discussed the law, respect, disrespect, and I would like to have some real debates in this assembly about non-compliance with Croatian laws by Croatian officials and people who rule this country at all levels. Today I will talk about Sisak-Moslavina County about Mayor Ivo Žinic, a HDZ member who also has two HDZ mayors means absolute authority in Sisak-Moslavina County. I will remind you of the case of Žinic – Klancir, when the lawyer of Caleb Mayor's private lawyer requested the identification of the Zagreb police and two police officers came to the office of Mrs Đurdice Klancir to determine her identity, which is not an accident. By the way, lawyer Caleb paid Sisak-Moslavina County's official lawyer, Sisak-Moslavina County, to lawyer Caleb in 2 years, 285,000 kuna fees. And see the devil Mayor Ivo Žinic accidentally uses lawyer Caleb for private lawsuits. Because Djurdzica Klancir wrote about the employment of one of Djindjic's sons in the Glina Penitentiary system, citing facts and even facts of electronic correspondence with the mayor himself, there is no reason why Mr. Zinic could sue the journalist mentioned, except for the insult of honor. To remind you that Mr. Žinić is ruling, his second son is the mayor of the town of Glini, the professional builder means receiving pay there, and the town of Glina is if you want to see what it looked like recently after the war, today when you arrive, you will think that the war was two years ago in that city. The town of Glina is a city in which the Croatian anthem is written, and today it is not a big one, but too much poverty and the big problems that are happening in the city. Not long ago we contributed to the show Checked about the construction of the sewerage, where the funds were spent, the sewerage was not made, and that happens to be the hometown of Mr. Ivo Žinić, the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County. I appeal here to the prime minister of the Croatian government and the president of the HDZ Mr. Andrej Plenkovic to explain to us what HDZ officials are doing and how they spend taxpayers' money and here I have a response from Sisak-Moslavina County that says how much money is paid to the mentioned lawyer used to calculate with journalists. The bigger thing is that the Croatian police can be used in this way, and we have seen Mr. Žinić in both unofficial associations and with former commander of the Sisak-Moslavina County Police Administration, very often and with the present one, is formerly in Zagreb today and I wonder if it is accidental that he is involved in the intimidation of Mrs. Because we can't call this a different matter than the intimidation of journalists so they don't write or write about the future marifettelucs of Mayor Ivo Žinic. As our Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, often on the issue of journalists in such cases, pretends not to be involved, here I will make an effort and write a representative question on this subject, personally to him, so that he has a legitimate problem in writing and I am very interested in whether he will do something and whether he will discipline the insubordinate HDZ on the ground who thinks that their county dad left them an inheritance and that they can do whatever they want with it, and that all those who point to their problems are inadequate and that they can scare them all, fear using the institutions of the Croatian state, which in this case is the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138858	On behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138859	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'd like to, live, start... so that you can see in front of how many audiences are spoken here in the Croatian Parliament today, how many people are interested in listening, today's debates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, today, I would like to draw on one topic, which concerns the upcoming EU parliamentary elections, and concerns election approvals and the composition of election committees and manipulations already under way. A group of citizens from the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari, we have sent an email to point out future irregularities, which are likely to occur in the municipality with an election result, because the election board is drawn up in such a way as not to be drawn up. So Donji Kukuruzari, election committee Donja Velesnja, president of the election board, is proposed by Ivan Civicic, who is currently the deputy municipal chief, and as deputy chief, he was elected on the HDZ list. The election committee of the Knezovljani, president of the election committee, was moved to Diana Barisic, who is currently a member of the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari and members of HDZ and as such and employed. The third election committee, which is particularly interesting, for the chairman of the election board, was also proposed by Tian Shapina, a HDZ member, the daughter of the president of the municipal HDZ and representatives of the Croatian Assembly of Mr Stipe Sapin. In view of the law, election, presidents and vice-presidents of the election committees, they would not be allowed to be people, members of any party. This already shows that the law is being broken, because these people I numbered 300 kn, as a daily for working on the election board, certainly means nothing and their task is obviously something else. When things like this are done, in a small, poor municipality, with a small population, I am able to believe that large election committees, in large polling stations, are doing far greater malversions. I appeal to the State Election Commission, the GONG, to all those who can also point to irregularities that occur during the election process at polling stations, for the composition of election committees, to also instruct the State Election Commission. I think this is a shame. First of all, people who have stopped at these polling stations and who have set them up, and secondly, it is a shame of the HDZ to deal with this kind of nonsense, I hope this is what Mr. Plenkovic will hear, so he can try to see if it really should or should not be done, and if there is such panic in HDZ, that even this way must provide election results. It is clear to me that today are difficult days for HDZ, it is clear to me that every day I find out the affairs of the new minister, that some people, who have given, are quite, of themselves, to defend this Republic, that the gang is attacking some, only we do not know what gang it is, I am sorry that Mr Plenkovic, is trying to introduce order in his party, in such a dirty way. Either these ministers are all so corrupt or they are really these members of that party tooiko grammistic and so much as want to take something from the Republic of Croatia. I don't believe it, I know there are good, honest people in that party, good and great patriots, but unfortunately, there are those who want to steal about this poor people more. Election approvals, so come on, people, at least here be correct minimum and don't be afraid like that, of the election result, that you have to do tricks this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138860	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138861	It is now up to Mr Davor Vlaovic to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Let's go... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138862	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Day of the Croatian Parliament, the day when the Croatian Assembly is established and I use the occasion of all Croatians and Croats, to congratulate all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia on the Day of the Croatian Parliament. It is an important date in the history of the Republic of Croatia that we all wanted and dreamed of, expected an equal chance for everyone, expected Croatian laws, the implementation of Croatian laws and an equal chance for all who live in Croatia. Here's the other day at a rally in Samobor, young people said we would not go outside Croatia, although unfortunately more than 300 thousand Croats went outside Croatia. If we get a chance to get a job, if we get a chance to make a personal income that we can live and create our own family. One of us, for our most important policies that has been made here in the Croatian Parliament, is for us from HSS is land policy, the Agricultural Land Act has entered into force in 2018. Here we are already halfway through 2019. The municipalities, in most cities, have made available programmes, delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture for consent, unfortunately most of the programmes are still in the ministry, waiting for additional documents. Obviously, in the procedure itself, the ministry did not adopt regulations, rules of conduct, and in the end, instead of the fact that the previous consent was pending post-compliance with the programmes which were not in accordance with the law, and there was no blame for the mayors of the municipalities and mayors at all, but clearly that the ministry was not quality prepared for this job, and they abolished the Agricultural Land Agency. So much for the reform and success of the government's body and the assistance of the mayors, the mayors of land policy implementation. But who gets hurt here? And family farms in Croatia, people who do business, want to deal with agriculture and, of course, the consumer, because most of the agricultural food products are imported into the Republic of Croatia and there is a major deficit. And unfortunately no one responds to that, I said when the Law was passed here on agricultural land, God forbid a tender to St. The 21st of 9th is celebrated with us, and now there will be 21st of this year and there will still be no competition. And there is no development of agriculture without rounding up the property, no development of agriculture without taking care of land books, catastra and no agricultural development unless our family farms have an advantage over large companies, legal persons, and what is now emerging as a major danger is also a rule that the minister announced on 10 May where all agricultural producers are invited to deliver data, contracts, evidence of ownership for agricultural land they have registered in the ARCOD and a request for support by the end of this year. Part of them doesn't have any contract because simply the owner of agricultural land that he processes is not in Croatia, is not available, does not exist. And instead of finding a solution to keep that land in ARCOD so that these people can continue to produce especially as most of them are cattle farmers, not if they don't deliver evidence by the end of the year they'll be left without that agricultural land, they'll stop doing agricultural production on that part and they'll be left without support. Who is this farmland kept for? As in the case of Agrokora, whether concessions and lease agreements are forced to be transferred to the Russian and scavenger funds by future owners or to the family farms of Croatia. Why has no application yet been submitted to the European Commission for the extension of the moratorium for the sale of the country of state agricultural land to foreigners? What's waiting for you? We're too late, we haven't solved the ownership relations, we haven't solved the garter, we haven't solved the cadastre, we haven't solved the rounding, we're even charging the farmers if they're replacing the particles, taxes and taxes to replace the land instead of encouraging the rounding to be more competitive agricultural production, but obviously it's for someone to keep that agricultural land that's much more expensive in our environment. We see that Hungary even changed the constitution to protect its domestic agricultural production, Slovenia, Romania, did similarly. What is Croatia waiting for, what is Tolusic waiting for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138863	We are now going to the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, a respected colleague, Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138864	Thank you, President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats, a few words about our most important topics at this point that should be discussed in the Parliament and made decisions. And above all, the problem of weather problems, climate change that we talk too little about in the Croatian Parliament and through the very legal framework that exists in the Republic of Croatia, is not enough to allow the implementation of these laws to prevent damage to property, agricultural cultures and everything that has been injured these days, here yesterday in the area of Samobor, a few days ago in my Slavonia. It is simply unacceptable that farmers are only driven to crop insurance when we see that mostly insurance houses, mostly according to the owners of family farms do not respect what is agreed and that they end up getting very little. But you can't make up for that guy's desire to produce in his field, no financial compensation can make up for him losing his temper and then losing his market because the customers will go somewhere else. And it is inconceivable that as long as we have the Law of Defence against Fight, it is not implemented in the full sense of that word in Croatia because no rockets have been purchased, it only acts on ground-floor generators and it works on one-third of the stations, so cca. 200's out of service because they don't have resources or reagents or missiles. Who's going to answer for that? Who's gonna be responsible for those 200 people who didn't get the income from it? Whether it is in Croatia's interest to produce food or not. And another topic that is equally important if not more important, which is agriculture, food production. We are at the full end of harvesting grains, rapes, barley and wheat. Prices are not yet defined. Agricultural producers are left to the market or I would say they are left to lobbys, large fish, purchasers who have storage capacity and which dictate the pace. The ransom price of wheat between 0,90 and 1,20 kn is mentioned and around the environment is also mentioned on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange more than 1.30 kn. The Assistant Minister says there is a regulation on the negotiation of relations in the purchase of cereals and that it is in line with the Law on unfair commercial practices. Well, from this point on, it's obvious that there's an unfair practice, an unfair commercial practice, that our agricultural producers are forced to hand over their genders and then then to be valued with prices of up to 1,00 kn, 1,10 kn, I don't believe there's going to be a 1,20 kn. And the cost of production is 1.30kn per, talk to the family farms and see how the prices of repromaterials have increased and that they cannot be produced below 1.30kn of wheat. Then why do we allow purchase prices from EUR 0,90 to € 1,20 to EUR 1,20 to market, is that not unfair commercial practice? And I call on the minister to call the OPGs, the Žito community, the Croatian agricultural chamber, the owners of Silos and try to intervene so as not to rob agricultural producers with so low wheat prices again. If he does not do so, most of them will give up the production of pears and it is obviously in the interest of the government and Minister Tolusic to continue importing wheat. It is a shame that last year we imported 53,000 tonnes from BiH which is a large grain shop or that more than 60,000 tonnes are imported into Croatia with frozen dough, ready, semi-certain bakery products. Whose interest is that? It's just import lobbys. Is it of interest for our agricultural producers to remain farmed, to produce food in Croatia or income from importers? Apparently, importers are miles away because there's faster money and bigger money. I ask immediately parallel to that and what about state agricultural land, most of the available programs are still in the ministry, not working. We've filed a request for the government's impellation. She hasn't put her in a cabinet session yet. When will they come to the assembly to hear who will be sold to? And what is still tragic is that we are not in any way reducing the burdens of these agricultural producers, that for every new tractor they buy, since it has a radio receiver to pay the CROMAC 80 kn per working machine. Well, you can't impose that on our producers that way because they don't have that much income. It is easy for the director of HRT to get 42,000 kuna if each farmer will pay 80 kuna per working machine. That's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138865	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138866	The following will speak on behalf of independent representatives of independent respected MP Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138867	Thank you, Mr. President. By 1 April this year, the procedure for signing the annexes of the concessions contract, etc., was to be completed. mirror companies with the State or the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It passed April 1st, those annex contracts weren't signed. We're all wondering why they weren't signed? Otherwise, let me remind you, 10 years ago. The Treaty on concessions of over 30,000 most fertile countries in the Republic of Croatia, in Baranja and Slavonia, was signed by the then agriculture minister. The question arises why not now and has not also done Agriculture Minister Tolusic and signed the annexes, meaning, the concession agreement for this country that I'm talking about now. He didn't do it for a simple reason, because he knows, if he did, and with the knowledge that foreigners have now taken over Agrokor's former or new company fortenovo, if he signed such a contract and gave concessions to the 30 000 hectares of the most fertile country in the Republic of Croatia, then many in those parts would declare him a national traitor. You see, since he is aware of it, as is the prime minister, then in the past months, weeks, they have been putting pressure on the mayors and mayors to sign contract annexes with the consent of their city councils. But you see respected colleagues and colleagues and dear citizens, our people are still responsible and smart. I congratulate all the mayors and mayors of the municipalities and cities in Baranja and Slavonia on whom they pressured to sign those annexes, I congratulate them for refusing to sign such contract annexes because they know they would wear the whim of traitors in their local environments. See, that's why Minister Tolusic didn't show up here today at HS because he has no cheek, no courage to tell the real truth. However, as the Government says today you have seen the Prime Minister, when there are no arguments, then he calls us MPs to be politicians, please. What's their goal, what do they want to say? They say now, so the mayors and mayors don't really need to sign those contract annexes. Why? Because apparently Lex Agrokor himself has the character of an executive document and therefore the concession is automatically transmitted. Imagine this claim that concessions, and in this case over agricultural, best land, are automatically transferred, it does not exist and it is simply a fraud. That is why we change Croatia, we believe and seek, we demand that all these contracts, meaning, on the extension of the concession, or on the concession for land 30 000 hectares to go to a public tender, to compete equally with PIK companies, means, from the Forten group system, but also all small, medium and large OPGs from that area that are interested. Now we're coming up with a key argument. See, over the past years, 10 years, the PICs, or Agrokor and its PICs, received from the state on average 180 million kuna incentives for agricultural production. At the same time, rental contracts were signed, and the lease of the country where the PIKs paid, Agrokor paid 4 times the price of the PPG's lease. Every year, the state and the local community lost about 30 million kuna on these lower leases. When we sum up 180 million kunas of incentives and 30 million kunas on lower leases, the state actually gave Agrokor 210 million kunas every year. Now I'm asking you, where did that money end up? The money was funded and developed, and on the other hand, the cooperatives were destroyed year after year, and Baranja from one area where it was produced, therefore, top products with high added value and Slavonia, they turned into areas where they serve only as a raw material base. On the basis of this, I congratulate once again on all the commissioners and the mayors who have resisted this pressure, if they think this is fair and proper, let the Prime Minister or his vice president sign, and I urge them to cancel these contracts. and give land to a public tender to everyone. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138868	Thank you. The following will be spoken by the independent representative, the respected Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138870	Thank you, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. I particularly welcome the citizens of Slavonia, Baranja and Istria, whose areas are 32,000 hectares of the most fertile, working country in Croatia. As we can see, the process and procedure, so-called. The automatic transfer of concessions from former Agrokor, according to a new system called Fortenova, does not go as this government imagined, because it founded, this automation, on a criminal law called lex Agrokor. With that in mind, I... The parties, we change Croatia, I make 3 requests, the first to ask for, to re-open a public tender for 32 thousand hectares, the most fertile country used by Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The party Change Croatia opposes the benefit of foreign owners at the expense of domestic OPGs. Secondly, we're looking for a suspension of support, for large private agricultural companies, which have large holdings, have an economy of volume, they don't need it, because this is the market and third, we're asking SOA, the Security Intelligence Agency, to show whether there are now in the new Forten system, possible threats to national interests of geopolitical, geostrategic. If they didn't make it for Agrokor, did they do it for Forten now? So let's start by saying hello first, to the mayors and mayors, in Slavonia and Baranja, who do not agree to automatically transfer the land to new concessionaries, i.e. the new owners of Forten. We have a case in Vinkovci, where twice the city council has not made, the decision has not given support to the signing of annexes. I particularly welcome the HDZ members and those who have been seized in this area, that they do not blindly follow these intentions of the Croatian government, which is clearly working against Croatian interests. The first contract 10 years ago with Agrokora was signed by the Minister of Agriculture in the Land. Why doesn't the current Minister of Agriculture sign, if he claims and if he is sure, that Lex Agrokor and that everything is fine, let him suppress, let Prime Minister Plenkovic sign if he's sure. But they won't, they know that one day they'll answer, so now they want to put the mayors in it, the mayors, but these people are smart, they don't want to wear the whim of traitors tomorrow, in their local environments, because for them to sign, they want foreign owners to run their land, of which they live, in which they live. The new owners of Agrokor, do not have an economic programme and will not be responsible for anything about agricultural production if they receive a concession. Are you aware of that, you who are in power? In that sense, I repeat, we are looking for a new tender and most of the country to be granted on market terms to our OPGs. Second of our demand, I demand the suspension of support for large agricultural companies. If we're out of socialism and we say, better capitalism, give privates, let them process, so why annually 200 million kunas, only Agrokor, so far, has been given to the Agrokor group, 200 million kuna, is you're aware, in 10 years, almost 2 billion kunas, as they work there. And others, so far a policy of incentives, it has only encouraged the tycunisation of Croatia, only 5.6 biggest owners, manages agriculture in Croatia, and never has Croatian agriculture produced less and Croatia has more imports of food, this model has failed. You need to make peace, we need to deal with it, and the party we change Croatia, at the heart of our agricultural policy, is the OPG, its support, to keep people there to work. Take the Jagodnjak municipality, there are a thousand and a half acres of Agrokor, only four people from there worked in the area, no employment, but migration. I have already said, this government has been conducting ethnic cleansing, both towards Croats and other national minorities in Baranja and Slavonia, and if it stays this way, there will be practically a desolated country. And thirdly, Agrokor is still Croatia's biggest security problem. This is what I said on behalf of the party Change Croatia, 2017 Fortenova cannot repay the loans it has, a billion and 500 million euros, the bank's loan, but cannot repay. She's just growing a progressive interest rate. This year, in a year, they will only have to pay 150m euros in interest. I also warn this will fail and answer the question, have you already agreed with Hungarians and Serbs, which picks will belong to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138871	Thank you. Let's go to the 3rd debate. It's a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138872	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, MPs, respected citizens. With this exposure, I want to warn the public of two problems. The first is why the CNB is increasing the external debt of Croatia more and more and more, and why it has achieved the historical greatest debt, loss in 2017 and '18. A year. And another problem, why Croatia is paying more in the EU budget than it has withdrawn so far. Well, first of all, the first problem, lately, is that we're most in debt abroad from the CNB. We've learned so far to be in debt by the state, businesses, commercial banks, we're used to it, but respected colleagues and colleagues who owe us more and more HNB abroad and that's never happened. Back in seven years, seven years ago, the CNB had an external debt of about 100m euros to abroad, today it grew to 3 billion and 100m euros. I repeat 3 billion 100m euros and, therefore, the CNB in Croatia's total external debt accounts for 7.5%, which is amazing. The question arises why does the CNB increase Croatia's external debt so much? There is no answer from that institution as there is no answer to any other important questions that we are opening there. I'm guessing it's about taking foreign loans to maintain the exchange rate. However, this is also pointless in a situation where Croatia has the historicly largest foreign reserve amounting to around 17 billion euros in the net, and it can benefit free of charge. It seems that the only goal is to destabilize Croatia and to impose an additional burden of foreign debt. I repeat, the CNB achieved in 2017, 2018 cumulatively around 4 billion kuna losses, it would be even higher if accounting standards were not applied obviously to them. Therefore, the CNB is a great loser and as such does not pay anything into the state budget in the past 2 years, unlike other central banks in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, etc. Will Plenkovic look for a strategic partner for this loser? He's actually already found it, wants to get us into the euro area as soon as possible under the control of the total European Central Bank, that's their policy. So I repeat Mr. President once again to you, I wrote to you, you got it, you didn't want it, you're protecting this kind of People's Bank that works against the interests of the Croatian economy and the people. I ask you again, signed 34 MPs, urgently invite the governor to a hearing here in the Parliament, I was recently in Hungary, the Czech Republic, they are calling in the extraordinary situations of their governor to explain to us here why you are hiding the truth from Croatian citizens and from us MPs? We know your interests, they're not for the benefit of citizens and the economy, but you know it well. Another topic I would like to say briefly is the manipulation of the amounts of funds withdrawn from the EU funds. Dear citizens, almost every day there is no media in which the following is not repeated, Croatia is increasingly withdrawing EU funds, etc. But here's the thing. Croatia has 10.7 billion at its disposal, that is, we had recently, about 6.5 billion euros have been agreed, watch out, agreed but that means it will withdraw, and only a billion 700 million euros have been withdrawn, so 15.9% of the total funds available. Recently, Prime Minister Plenkovic said the following, quote, from 2013 to 2019. Croatia paid 19.7 to the budget while receiving 34. billion kuna. The truth is, we pulled $12.7 billion and the 34.1 billion was agreed and not withdrawn. So he didn't blink, and he added that we pulled another 21.4 billion kuna, which is mildly untrue. Croatia therefore pays more in the EU budget than has been paid so far, according to Plenkovic's data, we have made more payments to about 7 billion kuna than we have withdrawn. I call upon the Prime Minister, all Ministers, do not continue to manipulate the people who have been manipulated, tell the truth, tell the truth, the truth hurts, but without the truth, we will never recover, and we will never get to the green branch, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138873	And the last Club of Representatives is that of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138874	I thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, as the old folk proverb says, sugar comes at the end, in this case you might say trash comes at the end. So, 21.12.2018. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a decision on the order and dynamics of the closure of the waste disposal that entered or was published in the National Journal on 9 January 2019. with retroactive force, which in itself is problematic, but more problematic its content. In contrast to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government because the units of local self-government asked nothing about it, according to the old well-known currency, we promised Europe, and you manage, it is thought of, of course, local self-government units, the government has made a decision which, therefore, in order and dynamics will close certain waste dumps. The result of this decision is that the government has punished the conscientious units of local self-government that have been successfully managed by waste disposal in its own area and in its own language, it has told them that additional garbage from those units of local self-government that did not care enough about waste disposal in its area. So once again it has been shown that those who work consciously and who follow regulations go worse than those who do not knowingly wait for someone to do it for them, so this time the government did it. It's about the feeling that those who were building up in accordance with the permits when legalization came, those who paid their bills when forgiveness came, and those two, I don't think bad about those two cases in terms of when it happened for social reasons, but it's not because the people were sent a message that they didn't need to carry out their obligations because of what someone else would do for them. So, after the government has punished the conscientious units of local self-government on the ground, even greater absurdities occur. Therefore, due to the functioning of this Regulation, local HDZ branches are seeking to call a referendum that would give citizens a statement on the implementation of a regulation which, by their government, has taken. So there's a complete absurdity. This way, of course, I express my dissatisfaction with the government's decision on and on order, the dynamics of the waste dump and I call on the government to take it a little more seriously what she did with that decision because it really doesn't make any sense to punish the good ones and to throw them into the trash of the worse ones, so those who respect the regulations from them won't use the term, although it is known which, in relation to those who don't respect the regulations. So, I hope that the syntagma that I've been a little unfortunately chosen when I ran for mayor, your town of our garbage, thinking that waste should be cared for by the county to become true, at least to us in Brač. And that is that in the end all the garbage will come where it has been done consciously so that it will not be where it has obviously not been treated so knowingly. So, in this sense, here I hope that within the HDZ, these democratic processes will come to the attention of local branches, who themselves have seen their own absurdity and provisions, asking citizens to plead against their government's regulation, in which, if we have the opportunity to help them, and that this country will still be led by something more serious, and not in a way that makes the syntagma a friend, becomes the motto of the work of this government, and then when the regulations are passed when something is promised to Europe, if it is not carried out in the field, then simply punish those who knowingly and responsibly do their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138875	Thank you very much. I'm setting up a recess now, and we'll be back to work at 3:00. It's a meeting at 14.26 p.m. Good morning, I want everyone, I hope you're rested and now you're a work man and we'll go as usual with a position on behalf of the club and the first one on behalf of the SDP club will speak for the esteemed representative Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138877	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The day after May 1st, the Day of Work, I want to talk about poor working conditions and low wages in Croatia and to present our plan for an increase in wages. First of all, we need to look back at the devastating facts about the quality of our citizens' standard of living. A large number of our people today work under poor working conditions and work for a small salary. The best news about this is that half of all employees in Croatia work for salaries that are less than 5400 kuna. We must not close our eyes to the truth that over a million people in Croatia live in poverty or on the edge of poverty and 130 000 of our citizens cannot achieve the Constitution guaranteed the right to work. We are witnessing that every day life costs rise and most of all the costs of directing, especially electricity. Imagine what it's like to live with such small incomes to citizens, for example. in the city of Zagreb which is one of Europe's most expensive cities when it comes to directing. Unfortunately, that's not the end of it. The vast majority of workers can't live with dignity after retirement. Half a million pensioners live on the edge of poverty and do not have adequate and quality health care, and poor food. Unfortunately, there are also workers in our country who do not receive any salary for their work as workers of third May and Uljanik, and this is unfortunately a picture of today's Croatia. The last so-called. The government's tax reform has raised salaries for only 15 000 of the richest in principle "take the poor to give to the rich". The vast majority of the citizens of this measure had absolutely nothing. In the SDP, we have a solution to increase wages precisely for this vast majority of citizens by increasing their personal deductions, i.e. the non-taxable part of income from 3800 to 5000 kn, currently all wages in Croatia would rise between 330 and 500 kn per month, especially those at least. What is important, wages would rise without extra cost for employers, so this is also a measure to increase competitiveness. This is not only a proposal that will make it possible to increase wages but also reduce the total cost of work which is the most burdensome form of concurrence in Croatia. In the SDP, we do not see the logic that work is burdened several times more than capital or rent income. By reducing labour costs, we give space to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who employ more than half of all employees in Croatia who are now operating at the edge of profitability and who are first, who will at their local level hire people and help stop eviction. This proposal is very realistic and realistic. What is important, this same proposal does not take money from municipalities and cities from their budgets because it is envisaged that instead of the current 83% now the 100% income tax amount belongs to local self-government units. It's about billions of kunas that have been charged into a balancing fund so far, and this fund, according to our plan, would be filled with 1% of VAT. This is a measure that would cost much less than the money that the state gave up through the reduction of VAT on meat and vegetables and which the citizens did not benefit much because the food did not cost, it happened exactly what we warned about, the owners of the trade chains were further enriched, so we will put our bill on wage increases in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the Parliament's agenda next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138878	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138879	The second Club of Representatives is SDP and distinguished colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138880	Thank you beautiful colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the wolf changes his hair, but never, it is a proverb that can best be applied to HDZ and in the way they behave in the 1990s when the biggest robbery in the Republic of Croatia was made, a privatisation robbery, but unfortunately, in today's days. Take a look at the affair of HDZ ministers who can't explain how they acquired a huge asset on their property cards, and for a miracle, all that property is always connected to some entrepreneurs who are some of their friends, so that's how they get involved in the story. Remember Minister Žalac and Mercedes of EUR 100,000. Incidentally there was a businessman named Jolly who worked with HBOR, who is a very good friend of Minister Maric, who eventually received some funds, his purchasing company from certain EU funds, and Minister Žalac, is the EU fund minister. After that, Minister Maric buys for state property from a friend who also has a business relationship with the ministry and state property, buying a house for a multiple lower price than it is estimated on the market today. And the property card says 850,000 kuna, and people say it's worth, which evaluates the real estate three and four times as much. Afterwards, we come to another affair, today we read that Minister Tolusic reported in his property card 153 m2 of houses, and basically his house has 330 square meters, but this is not all the house was built by a company that was in business with Virovitica County. You're guessing Minister Tolusic used to be mayor of Virovitic County. When we look at this whole column, when we look at how HDZ officials and ministers use it, it's obvious, their positions to show that they are capable and to increase their assets, it's clear to everyone in the Republic of Croatia what I said at the beginning. The wolf changes hair, but the temper never changes. It's just a different model of injustice and acquisition of assets that apply today compared to 20 years ago. Shall we go a little further? On the vice president and vice president of the HDZ, look now the only thing that matters in the HDZ is don't argue with the president. While Mr. Miljan Brkic was in correct relations with Plenkovic, everything worked, today we read in the newspaper that both the political and business demonstration of Mr. Brkic is being done. So, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be aware that HDZ continues to be the same party from the 1990s who spent privatisation during the Homeland War and made the biggest robbery in the Republic of Croatia. Only methods are different. Personal wealth, personal property, personal acquisition of certain resources is always in the focus of HDZ and its and its officials. What I must say, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not deserve such power, do not deserve to be led by people who hide their assets in a strange way, it is very difficult to explain to someone how it is possible for some real estate to grow 4 times in a few years, how it is possible to get a Mercedes worth more than a house in a particular part of Croatia to lick than a person with whom you are a personal friend or how it is possible to hide the real square of your house as Minister Tolusic does. Remember once again HDZ is a party of dangerous intentions, HDZ has not changed its temper, perhaps the hair is But the temper will never change. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138881	He's had a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138882	Thank you, Mr. President, in the speech of my colleague Maras, Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because, by providing incorrect information, colleague Maras has deviated from our usual rules of conduct in the assembly. Namely, counterpart Maras argues that the problem with HDZ officials is that they cannot justify property in their property cards, and the problem is in fact another. Which they didn't even mention in the property cards, so that's what you said. was progress but unfortunately not. [[Intruder: Thank you, time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138883	And you get, you get a fellow coat of arms warning because you abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure knowingly, for a purpose, so here's your conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138884	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Citizens of Croatia and especially citizens of the City of Zagreb. Happy 8th of May, Day of the Liberation of the City of Zagreb. It should be recalled that 26 thousand people were killed in the occupation of Zagreb, or 18 thousand people in Zagreb, and that 26 thousand people were killed in the folk-freedom struggle, including 8 thousand of the people of the Jewish people. The largest site in the City of Zagreb was in Dotrsk. The number of Zagrebers who joined the People's Liberation Army is 50,000. September 16, 1975. The city of Zagreb also won the National Hero Order, and from the City of Zagreb there were 28 folk heroes, so that for future generations this one I could read their names on today. These are: Bozidar Adžija, Marijan Badel, Vladimir Bakarić, Rajka Baković, Stjepan Bubanić, Joža Vlahović, William Galje Šiša, Ivo Gluhak, Janko Gredelj, Božidar Dakić, Kata Dumbović, Vinko Jedut, Zvonimir Kavurić, Otokar Keršovani, then Slavko Komar, Rudolf Kroflin, Ivan Mećar, Vladimir Nemet Braco, Bogdan Ogrizović, Josip Preskar, Ognjen Prica, Ivo Lola Ribar, Stipe Ugarković, Predrag Heruc, August Cesar, Marijan Čavic, Ivan Šibl and Milan Špalj. Some names are more familiar, some names are less known. For some, this is also the day when they painted the fall of Zagreb. I have to say, I'm glad I heard that, too, that I heard that interpretation. And I'm glad that my colleague Bruno Esih said openly how she felt about the 41-45 events, and I don't think that she said that it was the fall of Zagreb, said something that surprised us. But there are others who should be made manifest. - Mrs. Crescent. Esich was a special envoy Can I, Mr. President? ... [[Please don't throw it out of the bench, please.]] be there, Mr. Culey. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Please, let's not from the bench.]] Thank you. So, it's not a problem with Mrs. Devereaux. Esich, then she made her point more or less publicly. However, Mrs. Crescent. Esih was the special envoy of the president of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, who was concerned with the events of that period and would like to hear the opinion of Mrs. The president of her statement. - Mrs. Crescent. Esih entered the parliament on the HDZ list, which was placed on the list by Mr Plenkovic's HDZ president, and would like to hear his opinion on it. Maybe tomorrow we'll hear from Mrs. Webb. Esich said that tomorrow is the fall of Europe on 9 May, the day of Europe on the day of victory over fascism, so let's say that tomorrow a couple of Europe. And I'd like to say, then, in Austria with which this government has some kind of historical debate about connotation of post-II casualties. St. The war, therefore on Bleibueg, will be interesting to see their reaction as well. Anyway, I don't know how much we're going to be surprised at what Tajani would say on the statement of Mrs. Esich. Probably the same. So these are the statements they give for the right of Tajani, which absolutely give for the right of the Austrian government and which are not sufficiently condemned by the top officials of the Republic of Croatia. So, as far as Mrs. Crescent's statement is concerned, Esih and the days of the liberation of Zagreb, absolutely, therefore in democracy, even has the right to such an opinion. The political break, after all, took its position relatively clearly, although Mr Hasanbegovic, while at HDZ on Ustasha crimes, said it was the biggest moral collapse of the Croatian people and therefore I have no problem with it. We expect the next year to finally be out of Mrs. Conner's mouth on 10 April. Esih characterised as the liberation of Zagreb to finally close the circle, and as for the reaction of the contrary to what only to quote Mešter from the 13th episode of the Great Myst, this was about Split and the Italians, but it can be withdrawn when they had to withdraw, but the same parallel can be withdrawn. The tea's more future, I'm happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138886	On behalf of the SDP representative club, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138887	Thank you, dear Vice President. Today is Europe Day, which is why we have a confusing statement from the president of the Republic of Croatia, she says on her Twitter today that Croatian anti-fascists have made a major contribution to victory over fascism and Nazism, which is true. But yesterday in Bleiburg, she honors the fighters for freedom and independence of the Republic of Croatia, speaking of Ustashas. One day, the freedom fighters are Ustashas, and today they praise the anti-fascists as well. The same president removes the bust of commanders of the anti-fascist movement in Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia. The name of the street was changed in Zagreb on 8 May, the name of Marshal Tito's Square was abolished, all those who do so forget about the verses of Pablo Neruda, he said you can tear up all the flowers, but you will not ban the arrival of spring. What did victory over antifascism mean for the Republic of Croatia? So what did the anti-fascist movement with Marshal Tito mean for the Republic of Croatia? If it hadn't been for him and that anti-fascist movement of his, his partisans, the war would have ended in order, as it had ended, so it wouldn't have ended otherwise, it might have lasted a little longer because the partisans held several German divisions there all along, couldn't have gone to the east front, but the Republic would have been on the losing side. If the great three had not recognised Tito and his partisans as the only anti-fascism fighters on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, the RS would have been on the losing side. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia would be restored with the Karadjordjevics because Cercic was all there by the end of 43rd year, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia would be restored under the Karadjordjevics, and the Republic of Croatia would be one small administrative unit in that kingdom, the question could be called the Republic of Croatia at all, or would be only Međimurje, Dalmatia, Slavonia, the question of what would happen to Croats and what fate they experience. Of all that, Croatians saved Marshal Tito and they have great reasons, perhaps the greatest reason among all the peoples of the former Yugoslavia to glorify him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138888	Dear fellow Glasnović, I would like to ask you nicely, I would ask you not to step in and interfere with my fellow Stazić in his speech, because no one has disturbed you, but you have one reminder. I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138889	Mr. Glasnović, I know you'd rather send me to Jasenovac, that's clear to me, but leave me alone, leave me alone to say the position of my club. Will you calm down? Will you calm down? So, the Republic of Croatia is unfairly marking this day of victory over fascism, it mainly celebrates Bleiburg. Look, Stalingrad killed 100,000 or so, captured 100,000 Verbach soldiers, not Nazis, they were students, miners, farmers, not all Nazis, they were taken to Siberia. You know how many of them came back? Five grand. Who today in Germany is asking these 95,000 to be memorialized, who? - Mrs. Crescent. Merkel went to Moscow a few years ago and said never the German people would be grateful enough to the Russian people for liberating him in the 45th year. Despite the fact that there were many innocent victims, there were victims without, killed without trial, a sincere attitude toward antifascism. E Croatia seems to be the only one here who is dishonest. The SDP and I are personally honest and will never stop celebrating Croatian anti-fascists and their commander-in-chief, Marshal Tito.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138890	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138891	A good day of respected colleagues and colleagues, before we go on the agenda, is followed by a statement of views on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first to apply is the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA Club", in their name should be spoken Ivan Vilibor Sincic. He's not here. He's losing his right. The next club of MPs who applied for a position is SDP's Club of Representatives, in which the representative, Stjepan Kovac, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138892	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, as you know this Saturday in Čakovec, held a peaceful protest of the citizens of Međimurje called "I Want a Normal Life". As a person who was on the scene, I would like to encourage you to act because as speakers pointed out, the time is not 5 to 12 but 12 and 5, and that is solely because of the lack of interest and inaction of the central government. Although some press reports have said that the protest was directed against members of the Roma national minority, I who was on the scene and who I am the mayor of the city whose citizens meet daily with the situations for which the protest was held, I argue it is not true. The protest was focused on encouraging state, primarily judicial authorities to prosecute perpetrators of crimes and criminal offences and that we, who are the legislative authorities, create a framework that will allow simpler, faster and fair treatment of all perpetrators of any offence, any criminal offences. Let me explain to those who may not know. The peaceful protest was organised by the citizens of a street in the village of Pribislavec, which passes directly along the part of the place where members of the Roma national minority live. Individuals from that village and I stress and ask the media to pass it on, it is a large minority that has been destroying the property of these citizens for years, stealing their vegetables from the gardens, loud music and firearms shootings in the nighttime disrupting peace and disrupting security, attacking them and beating them, stoned their houses. All this goes on for years and on application, the police either go out on the ground and do the record or get helplessly down their shoulders and directs citizens to private lawsuits. Namely, it is the works where the damage is less than 1000 kn or the perpetrators are minors. When they do reconnaissance, find the perpetrator and report them to the attorney's office, such lawsuits are either dismissed, or if they come to court, they will continue indefinitely. The rule of law doesn't work here. What message is being sent to all citizens of Croatia when violence, disturbances of public order and peace, illegal weapons possession, is being tolerated in silence? And that's why we have these consequences. From a peaceful environment to some statistics, Čakovec turned into one of the most insecure cities in Croatia. According to research conducted by the Međimurje police along with the county, most citizens feel insecure and almost 50% of theft does not even report. And such a situation is in its places in Međimurje which is located near the settlements where Roma live and it lasts for more than 20 years. There is a lot of money and our local and national and European investments to raise the quality of life in settlements and provide them with education. There is a better move, but they are too small and too slow, the majority population is aware that this is the right way and there is nothing against investing public funds in Roma education, moreover, but it is against the fact that the money of taxpayers spent on various social contributions is not controlled but is probably thought to be done by recipients for services. The truth is completely different. Who controls whether money is intended for a child’s allowance spent to buy their children equipment for school and clothing, or does it end up in someone’s pocket? Today, we have a situation that in some Roma settlements or the police, it doesn't matter when they enter, that 70% of all recorded crimes in Međimurje are committed by residents of these settlements. From year to year, the situation is getting worse and the system is doing nothing. I talk to citizens every day, not only the Croats, but also the Roma. The vast majority of them want to live normal, work and educate children but a minority of their countrymen who run the game and government in settlements, the judicial system does not process or punish, so it is no wonder that the rest of them are simply afraid for their safety and life, and therefore I am saddened and angry that some are eager to declare Međimurci racists and call them for human rights violations. We are one of the most tolerated environments in Croatia, you can freely ask all minorities who live with us, the voice that has raised citizens through a peaceful protest, is the result of years of non-functioning of the rule of law and their desire for all citizens of this country, regardless of their national or any other membership, to apply the same rules and obligations. So I call on everyone, instead of collecting political points, to work together to isolate that minority in the Roma crime community and to hold all of the Međimurje Roma hostage as hostages. And finally, it's a message to everyone that this problem has to be solved as soon as possible. But not like so far [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] with a completely different approach, [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] 0 crime tolerance, thank you. [[Subject Petrov: Representative Kovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138893	I'd like you to hold on to your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138894	Let's move on. Mr. Arsen Bauk, outside the position of the SDP Representatives Club. Write it down. Thank you very much. You want another one? You want another warning? Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to lower my tensions a little bit, okay. So, we all know or at least we're informed from the media that the situation in HDZ is complex, but that's not the topic I want to talk about. I want to talk about their mutual debate breaking over the back of citizens. At the request of the City Board of HDZ in the town of Supetar, the city council called a referendum on whether they wanted their dump to become a central waste disposal site for the entire island of Brac. This is in itself not a big problem again, the problem is that it is directly directed against the decision of the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the order and dynamics of the closure of waste disposal by the HDZ government or HDZ Minister. So we have the first absurd that HDZ's branch requires that the city council in which they make the opposition call a referendum in which citizens would plead against their minister's decision. Okay, maybe they did an election analysis just before HDZ headquarters, and that way they thought it would bring them some political points. What is absurd is that after a month after the Ministry of Environmental Protection adopted a decision required under the law, the City Council's decision sent a letter to the administrative department in the city that the referendum issue was not in line with the law. After the ballots were already printed, certain polling stations and what the referendum was scheduled for 9 June, so Sunday the Ministry of Environment Protection did not act on what the Law on Local Self-Government determines, which is to say whether the referendum is legal or not. It can be done by the Ministry of Administration, but then the Minister of Administration would have to object to his basic branch or would have to blame the Minister for Environmental Protection. We therefore expect the government to start doing its job or to say that it is not in accordance with the law and is behind it or to stop harassing local self-government units in a way that shifts its unhappiness to them. So, the decision on order and the dynamics of closing the dump made by the minister is ignoring the problem that is in part within the ministry. Justification before the European Commission that they have done something, and they have only done that they have transferred garbage from one pile to another and successful and positive examples of local self-government units punishing that, except in alleged signs, they still have to receive their garbage into alleged signs of other people's garbage. So those who did not resuscitate their dump will not have it, and thus they solved their environmental problem and transferred it to those who had rescheduled it and were appropriate. This was discussed by the Association of Cities and Mayors regardless of party belongings, and they began to complain about it, which is very logical. However, the question remains whether the debate within the HDZ will be aware that their mayors are criticising their government and that all this is being broken over the backs of citizens, while collecting cheap political points locally in such a way as to force their city administrations to conflict with the HDZ government. I ask you at HDZ to finally calm down, to solve the problem, not that he, not that he breaks across the back, over the back of the citizens. Therefore, I call on the competent state institutions to confirm or dispute the legality of the decision to call this referendum and perhaps some other referendums in other cities, so that the bodies of the local self-government units can finally seek their protection before the Constitutional Court and in this case to the Administrative Court. It's a normal legal procedure, the rest is politics. Therefore, let the rule of law do its job, let the citizens of the local self-government unit seek protection where they need to be, only that their internal ping-pong no longer play over the back of citizens who should finally declare themselves in the referendum. At this point, the city council's decisions are in force, no competent authority has said that it is illegal, that the referendum, as things stand now, should be held, and after it is held, the decision taken at the referendum cannot be disputed anymore because the Law on Local Self-Government does not prescribe monitoring of decisions in the referendum [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's gotta be done before. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138896	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138897	We'll stop now because it's 1 o'clock and we'll continue later and now we've got a position on behalf of the MPs' club and the first one will be SDP's Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138898	Thank you, Your Honor. Here is a respected colleague, but also all those who are watching us, I would like to know the fact that our Zagreb County and the people of Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorje County, especially our children's parents, will not be on holidays at the same time, school holidays. It is clear from the decision of the Ministry of Science and our minister that all the counties are able to decide on their own which children will be on holiday and how the Zagreb County, the City of Zagreb and Zagorska County agreed that it will be according to model 4 and they all agreed, clearly, here and held on to this agreement and Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorska County, however, here is the City of Zagreb, which thinks that it can do anything according to what it wants, clearly played out, I would say cowboy in this beautiful, beautiful capital city, he decided that the City of Zagreb will have a second model of 1 holidays. And now look at the wonders, it will happen so that someone who goes, some child or parents who have two children, one child goes to the basics of schools in Velika Gorica or Jaska or I don't know, to Zaprešić, will go to the holidays one week, and then the next week they will go to the holidays of a child who goes to high school in Zagreb. It's something that clearly proves to those claims that we're saying that in one part of the Republic of Croatia there's anarchy and chaos, it's something that's inadmissible. Clearly, in this case the beginning of the problem is the Ministry of Science which has approved that every county can work and look for holidays whatever they like, whether we agree with it or not we will simply come to the situation that every child will probably be able to choose when he is on holidays, but okay, let's just make it one progressive model that is being introduced into Europe, I am against having all Croats and all children in the Republic at the same time of the holiday, but let's say that we are liberal, but this other thing is simply unacceptable that the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County do not have holidays at the same time when we know that they are dependent on each other, but here, it is clear to the mayor Bandic who is doing everything by his own way and we have instead of model 4 as promised, has a model 1. But here, that's the RH we have, and I wouldn't be surprised if there was more. Here, it's something that needs to be changed, changing I should tell the mayor first of all because of his will, is it something inadmissible, but it's the Republic of Croatia. We are surprised when our children leave the Republic of Croatia when we say that when they become adults, when they actually see where they live and how much self-will they have here in the Republic of Croatia, disrespect and everything else, and when they become independent and decide about themselves, they go, lift the anchor and say no, in this kind of Republic we don't want to live, and I'm not surprised, but I'm surprised at what I'm here today, and it's clear again with the City of Zagreb, today or yesterday I read in the newspaper and yesterday, and I'm calling for the leadership of Dinam who asks the president and the prime minister, and I'm not surprised why he's asking the president and the prime minister, because they've always been together, because they've been building together, and they're destroying them now, and I can't believe them. The dinosaurs are calling to protect them from the mob, I think that in the Republic of Croatia a little while longer so we have drug dealers going to ask the state to protect them from other drug dealers because they're doing their competition, that's something amazing. Can you believe my dears here are the representatives of the few here, but also the citizens who listen here, that we have an appeal of the dinosaurs, so those who are, uh, taking care of Dinamo, we know that they own and what the Mamic brothers are doing in Dinam, and now they're asking for the state to protect them from the mafia that needs to take them over, so God frees me from all that together, but here, in this country, there's nothing weird, so maybe the president or prime minister will intervene to protect the Mamic brothers, one of them is clearly on the run, the other came here and now he's, it's really amazing that the first time that someone who has been the sports director of this part of the Republic of Croatia is gonna say that there's nowhere in Europe, but that's RH, and that's it's the RH, and at the end I's just saying the one thing about the Bandician and Mamic's one thing that's one thing that's one of our little bit of our little bit of this part of this part of the rh says the rhythm says every beat came On the shekret, the one who [[Intruder: Thank you]] He understood me. He understood me. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And the one who isn't will never. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138899	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives and esteemed counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138900	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will also talk about water, about soft water, and these are events that were in Kastav, Supetar, and we could list them who knows how much before that, actually talk about those who should be doing their job not doing it. It's unfortunate that a girl from Varazdin must defend her colleagues, friends, but should be called very simply victims. Fireman Tomo also becomes a symbol of the great majority in Croatia, quiet people who are ready to defend against violence, from attacks which, of course, will not be one to one in the flock, but in the flock, attack those who do not like them. What is true, which is that when you hear the condemnation of this event by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister of the Interior and Justice should tell the truth, which is that about that conviction is equal to the quality, now I return to the water again, a two-layer toilet paper. One's a story for the outside, one's a story for our needs. I know it's too expensive a price for them, possibly to support or actually take those steps that can prevent such violence but of course it's lagging behind. That's what citizens do, that's what people who give their hands to those who are attacked, who also have to defend people in other places on the Split coast regardless of nationality. I would remind myself that there are also some in this assembly who are parents of the same members of the same groups who, unfortunately, today can look at a young man who is blind precisely because he is a Croat and precisely because they beat him up, where, in Vinkovci. I think we should finally clear the air here that blood cells don't matter. That the issue of violence here and that the issue of condemnation of this violence should be seen exactly as the mayor of Supetar, which will make concrete moves and prevent those from doing so. If this isn't done by the state, unfortunately, if the citizens have to, like the girl in Varazdin, protect people or fireman Tomo. I think we have a system in which unfortunately, when you look at the murder that happened in Kastava or Supetar or the blind young man I was talking about, if it is a daily thing, and it is, and nothing is done, then I have to say that we're talking about water again, about the water, about those who should really start to deal with those who are willing to hurt others just because they don't like it, just because it might not be the same nationality or because it's simply a tourist in a country where tourism is the main industry, in which they should be hosts, in which no one should be afraid and in which they should be quite normal, which is that you can walk peacefully, that you can also work in contrast with those people who have come to work, regardless of what nations they are, they have come to work. If we finally stop the situation to tolerate it, will the state finally go into a situation to not be 150 meters away from Tom, but to finally solve it the way it's supposed to be. If this is acceptable to the Croatian Parliament, if this is acceptable to the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, then we must be clear about what will happen in the future. It's all a question until you get your turn, and it's only a matter of days before some of you or your children are also victims, the question of who's going to defend them. I would like to send a message on my part that the most expensive price will be paid by the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is not just about tourism, not just about economic interest, but about reasons that are much more important. Is this a country recognised by violence or is this a peaceful tourist destination? Is this a country known for its safety or is this a country where violence is the most normal phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138901	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, above all distinguished colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, I will ask you a question, which is, what are you afraid of or even better if you are afraid of something? And I'm asking that because I've been following what you've been doing lately, I've been tracking how you've been chasing almost all the independent institutions that have worked so successfully in this country, you're chasing all those who've raised their heads, you're chasing everyone who's been doing their job, who's been law enforcement, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ are chasing the taxpayers' BOOK, you are chasing the taxpayers' BOOK that the Republic of Croatia has set up with the help of the United States to investigate those who steal money from this country. Are you doing this because one of Mr. Mamic's victims, is that why they euthanized him, planted his leg, disabled his work? Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have destroyed the inspections, you have formed the State Inspectorate, you have put it under your colleague Mikulić's hat, and since that happened, the inspectorate is not working, the inspections are not being carried out, unless it is necessary to persecute their political insolents to carry out a political racket. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ, you are establishing a court just to incriminate your listener, Mr. Turudic, but that is not all, and it is obviously not enough for you because the last institution you were going to attack is the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. I'll remind you how you've replaced Mrs. Poirot. Oreshkovic, and why? Because she was doing her job because she wasn't looking at a party card, because she didn't watch party membership and because she was conducting a procedure against everyone, he was from the SDP, he was from HDZ, he was from Milan Bandic's Party or some third party, and of course it suits you when they're on the wrong side of the table in front of other political parties, but they've allowed themselves something inadmissible in your country, which is to go against those of HDZ who violate the law, who are up to their elbows in conflict of interest. Dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ will only count some of the affairs you've been having since the beginning of this year, Mercedes in Mrs. The regret, and then we find out that the one from which Mercedes was obtained, gets millions from the state budget, Mr. Marić's villa registered in an estate card at an incomparably lower price than the one from which it is real, and then we find out that the one from whom Mr. Maric bought it, buys state property from Mr. Marić, the barbecue of Mr. Tolusic, which is not a barbecue in reality, but another house in the courtyard of his huge house which, of course, was not registered in the property card in its full scope, nor in its full value, and then we find out that this house was built by the one who was working with the county in which Mr. Tolusic was mayor. Well, of course you're attacking the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest when you're up to your elbows in conflict of interest. You've turned this country into your nest, you've turned this country into a conflict of interest, you've opened doors across corruption, nepotism, relationships. The Republic of Croatia you create is not the Republic of Croatia we want, so I ask you again, gentlemen of the HDZ, what are you afraid of? Are you afraid to be exposed? You don't have to be afraid of that. In this country everyone knows what you are, everyone knows what you were like at the time of Sanader, everyone knows what you were like at the time of Karamark, everyone knows what you're like now, and then I guess you're just scared of each other, which is when you've already been exposed, that you're not being punished for what you've been doing. Well, you're wrong, you can obstruct, you can delay, but you won't run away from responsibility for what you've been doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138903	I thank my fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138904	- Mrs. Crescent. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to point out the problem of emergency medical assistance in Vela Luka on the island of Korčula. You must imagine for a moment that you are a passerby or tourists in Vela Luka and that you suddenly need urgent medical attention. First of all, you'll be surprised when you realize that such a big place as Vela Luka actually doesn't have an ambulance at all, or that by proposing a new emergency network a few years ago, she lost it. A medical emergency team has moved to the town of Blato which is 8 km away from Vela Luka and at first glance the thing may not look so bad because you will call an ambulance and it will still appear after some time from Blato in Vela Luka, so the ambulance will come from Blato to Vela Luka and will take you to Blato. In Blato, your doctor will observe you and try to determine what he's working on and determine that you need an X-ray or, for example, an X-ray. The ultrasound. Unfortunately, there is no mud or ultrasound or X-ray and you will have to return to Vela Luka. So you're going back to Vela Luka to do the diagnostic tests that are necessary. When these diagnostic tests have been made for you, follow the return to Blato with findings where you will receive final diagnosis and instructions for further treatment from your doctor. This story can be the end but it doesn't have to be because, for example, You may need some kind of specialist review or therapeutic procedure you can't get in Blato, so you from Blato are going back to Vela Luka again. You may need gypsum or some other therapeutic treatment. Anyway, none of it's in the Mud. So, you heard well, the patient from Vela Luka goes to Blato, in Blato the doctor observes him, returns him to Vela Luka, from Vela Luka goes back to Blato again, from Blato again to Vela Luka for a specialist examination, and maybe he'll go home for documents, and then he'll go back to Blato again because he'll, for example, The helipad, with the helipads, will head to the first nearest hospital and that's in Dubrovnik. So can we describe this as absurd, can we describe this as tragic or ridiculous, irrational, illogical? Does this sound too expensive, does this sound too dangerous for patients? Who thought that the entirely satisfactory level of emergency medical assistance in Vela Luka would collapse to these branches? To make it not only inaccessible to the number of citizens, but also dangerous. Who is behind this, who has forgotten or ignored the fact that Vela Luka is the largest settlement on the Dalmatian islands, who has ignored the fact that the population of Vela Luka during the tourist season has increased multiple times? Who could have thought to ignore the fact that Blato doesn't have the diagnostics that need emergency, that he doesn't have an X-ray, that he doesn't have an ultrasound, that he doesn't have a haematological biochemical lab, that he doesn't have a microbiological lab, that he doesn't have an orthopaedic trauma surgery with a gypsum, that he doesn't have a gynaecological surgery, that he doesn't have a birth certificate, that he doesn't have a birthing room? All of this is in the House of Health in Vela Luka. In Vela Luka, there is a special hospital Kalos, with all the specialist services, Blato doesn't have it, but he has an ambulance. To whom and why did it occur to play with such an important segment of health care, who is so powerful as to ignore the fact that the emergency room in Blato is spatially tight and inadequate? Who will be responsible if you work in an emergency room in Blato on a stethoscope, otoscope and a pressure meter? How will this affect the quality of health care, who can ultimately guarantee that patients will always get and everything that is necessary? Who will be responsible in the event of tragic events? What will happen to the personnel in the near future, who will want to stay in a facility where there are no modern diagnostic devices, in what facility is the highest reach of the pressure meter and stethoscope? Which will be the consequences we can only assume. So, what happened here? Why was it against the arguments of profession and common sense? I call on Minister Kujundzic to enter the field as soon as possible, come to Vela Luka, invite him to see for himself how absurd and dangerous this situation is for the citizens. I'm calling him and asking him, I'm asking him from this pay phone to get Vela Luci back an ambulance, because this situation we currently have is no good for anyone, not for patients, not for doctors on the western part of the island of Korčula. So Minister, please help, do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138906	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138907	8th debate of the SDP representative club, respected colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138908	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this House, we talked more than once about conflict of interest, corruption and lawlessness, and some of my colleagues talked about it today. We've talked so far about, for example, the Minister of Finance and his relationship with Agrokora. We were talking about former Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, her relationship with INA, Agrokor, with a rough Borg. We also talked about the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, who is being held before the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest and today runs the procedure for conflict of interest, because of Agrokor, whom the President of the Republic of Croatia, with the assistance of colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ, is very successful in obstructing. Watch it now. Just since the beginning of this year, we've been talking about the Mercedes, Minister Zalac, about how she stands in her backyard but not in her property card. We talked about a villa at the sea of the second Minister Marić, which is worth three or four times less in the property card than it is in reality. We have already talked about Mr. Tolusic's famous, famous grill of the Deputy Prime Minister. Let's not forget what we talked about today, which is Minister Pavić and his conflict of interest because he also gives jobs at the Employment and Ministry Office to his colleagues. But respected colleagues and colleagues, none of this is equal to one single minister, the one who today is the minister of administration and yesterday, which is very important was Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Lovro Kuščević. No Prime Minister, not the HDZ gentlemen, this isn't just about two properties that aren't listed in the cadastre. Although, and this should be noted is particularly interesting and even funny that the minister who was in charge of the surveillance of the work of the catastra is unable to enroll his property in the cadastre, it is respected colleagues and colleagues the smallest problem in this whole story. This is about a lot, a lot more than that. This is about an official who created a system that was networked by nepotism and corruption. This is about a politician, let's say once again, Lovri Kuštević, who is pulling out real estate from companies that then end up in bankruptcy and he is in the process for millions. He accidentally earned in the process exactly how much, exactly, the kind of company he owed when he came into bankruptcy. It owed a million kunas to suppliers and buyers and 300 thousand kuna to the state budget and the minister earned exactly that much by extracting real estate from companies. Is that worthy of politicians? If you ask me, it's not. But that's not all. It's about a politician who's changing spatial plans to make his family and friends make money. The richest minister who, despite his wealth, is unable to enter all the property into the property card and publicly report it and publicly publish it. This is about a minister who breaks the law every day. This is about a minister who, despite all the things I have said, has no sides at all, so he is smarting the entire Croatian public on how to get rich up to 44 years. But gentlemen of the HDZ, gentlemen of power, neither you nor the president of your government, but none of this is disputed. That's why respected colleagues from the Croatian community of interest, which is too much and too much of you. Do something, protect the minimum of dignity left in this country and replace the Kushevic Lovre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138909	We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138910	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow coat of arms injured an article... The Rules of Procedure, he insults all HDZ deputies by citing that HDZ, the government and, in particular, because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, obstructs the work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not true, the club will and won't, but the HDZ club can't obstruct the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, so I ask Mr. Pejo Grbin to apologize to all HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138911	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. So I estimate that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you may agree or disagree with the assessment presented by a colleague of the coat of arms, I personally disagree, but I don't think he has made a mistake and violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138912	We're moving on to the next position. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138913	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since these breaks are, let us call it the opportunity to present a position on behalf of the clubs an excellent opportunity to warn about certain current problems or potential problems, I will use today's pay phone just to warn or appeal to the Ministry of Science about students with disabilities. Therefore, it is currently in the public consultation of the Draft Regulation on the terms and conditions of regular students' rights to subsidized housing and what students with disabilities warn they have also appeared in the public debate, but it is not worse to repeat this, and for this speaker, it is clear in a new way that many of the changes mentioned in the draft do not actually benefit students with disabilities and that they are placed in an unfavourable position in relation to the existing situation as regards the exercise of the right to subsidised accommodation more precisely in student homes. I'll list only three points they warn of. So, the first in the draft regulation is prescribed that a potential candidate for subsidized accommodation should not be in a working relationship, but it was confused with the mind when drawing up a draft regulation that such a provision actually makes it impossible for students with disabilities in postgraduate studies to complete their studies because they are very often in the inability to settle large costs where the prices of a semester move somewhere around 10,000 kuna tuition. It is precisely because of the high cost of such studies that students with disabilities are forced to enter a working relationship because a post-graduate study of persons with disabilities is no longer subsidized in the amount of tuition. They also warn that this provision in the draft regulation subsequently violates the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, then the Constitution which is the basic legal act of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the general policy of the Republic of Croatia, which, in fact, prescribes or tends to encourage employment and education of persons with disabilities. The second disputed part of the draft regulation refers to the conditions prescribed for subsidized accommodation, i.e. in order to be able to compete for a dormitories which says that students with disabilities from I to V of the disability category must achieve at least 30 ECTS points on average in previous years of study and that the direct right to subsidised housing is granted by students with disabilities from I to V of the disability category means more than 50% of disability determined by the solution of the RS competent authority. In fact, the legislator, the ministry predicted that these two provisions are actually in collegiate or if such a rule is adopted, if one provision is decided to apply, it is in collapsing with another provision. Similarly, they recall that the current version of the Regulation prescribes a provision mentioning the minimum ECTS points achieved on average in years of study that are necessary for the exercise of the right to subsidise housing for all students, but this minimum threshold of ECTS points for disabled students does not exist at this time. However, they believe that if the ministry really believes that such a threshold should be prescribed or that they are deprived of that right that there is no point threshold then they suggest that the score threshold be reduced to 15 ECTS points since the health situation often makes it difficult to study. Finally, the provision they consider to be controversial is a provision of a regulation relating to students with disabilities who use default. The draft says that students with disabilities from category I to category V exercise the right to subsidized housing in the event of enrolment only if they have signed up for the first time. They consider this provision inappropriate because it does not take the nature of a health condition that often makes it very difficult for students to carry out student obligations within the prescribed period and for this reason are sometimes forced to enroll several times during their studies. The conclusion states that, with great disappointment and regret, they read after the rules read, found that the above-mentioned possible amendments to the rules seriously question the survival of students with disabilities in the higher education system and urge the ministry to change these provisions in the draft until final adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138914	I thank my colleague, Voter. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will use this right of address on behalf of the Club of Representatives of 5 minutes to express my regret that a proposal on the free transport of children with developmental difficulties has not yet been accepted, I am talking about ferry transport because already two committees, although they have been narrowly but for one vote refused such a bill. Not only has the proposal been rejected, but I am by some colleagues accused of politics, although it is a proposal I proposed seven months ago and I have avoided speaking about in public precisely because I do not think it would be in any way appropriate to politicise the subject. So in seven months, two committee sessions, one government statement can't really talk about politics. Avoiding the parliamentary majority to solve this problem with the pretext that the government will once propose a whole law, that it will be settled, could hold water for a while, but the fact that the proposals, which, by the way, have been submitted by the leaders of the local self-government units of Brač, of which 3 members of the HDZ, which is supported by other members of the local self-government units and by many public-life individuals, have been avoided by the ruling to resolve this and speaking of the excuse that it will be resolved once, have come seven months ago with the announcement of the government's representative that the whole law will only be sent to the first reading in the 10th month. As planned. Which means the final proposal could come next summer. I announce that, if I asked my fellow MPs from the opposition to take advantage of the business opportunity to put this item on the plenary session for the next week, or when the President of the Parliament decides to put that item in place, and that the SDP's Club will propose a conclusion, and in order to avoid the need for rulings to accept some opposition bill, which the Parliament will task the Government with authorising a regulation with legal force after the Constitution allows, that is from 15.7. So we're giving the government a way out of this situation, which is another proof that there was no intention of politicizing this proposal. I would also like to point out that I am still at the disposal of parliamentary majority representatives as a formal legislator, if someone wants to be with me, I would very much like to send a letter that, on behalf of the promoter, one of the MPs can speak. Also, I hope that there will be no need to wait for a complete solution because it really does not have to wait. In fact, the law that regulates this issue is much wider than the transport of a group, than the regulation of the right to free transport of a group of citizens, and a relatively small number, somewhere around 500 people, so I want that before the meeting of the Assembly in the 9th month. This question will be settled. If neither the Government nor the Ruler accepts it, then let them simply admit that they do not want to solve it, so it will be easier for both of us and them. I am pleased that this topic still gets great public attention and that HDZ colleagues need to explain their voting procedures, one way or another, which is otherwise a duty, so they must fight for their views and that this is also a kind of pressure to solve this problem and I hope that this type of pressure will bear fruit. Without a vote from the parliamentary majority, no solution can be made. That is not the case in any parliament, otherwise the minority would be the government and most would be the opposition. But to be so stubborn about one logical opposition proposal, I'm a little surprised, but it doesn't matter. If that works out, we'll forget everything that happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138917	I thank my colleague, Bauku. You won't mind, we still have a few seconds till 13 o'clock, so if no one would mind, I'd move on. 249, i.e. the opinion of the Club of Representatives, since it is foreseen from 12 hours. The first registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138919	Excuse me, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. Today I must speak again about the case of Lovra Kuščević, Minister of Administration in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But not about his malfeasances and abuses, about which he's more or less known, more or less, we know everything about how he pulled out real estate from a company that ended up in bankruptcy, we all know how he used a magic wand to turn bought pastures into building land and make millions. We all know that he lied about being exempted from the decision to change the spatial plan by which one barn accidentally turned his barn into a residential building. We all know all about it, but what we still don't know is enough of the phenomenon we had the chance to see yesterday. And this is a phenomenon where a man who organically hates the ultimatums of one party's president, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, justifies such behaviour. A phenomenon in which the president of one party places the entire party on the defence of Lovra Kuščević and the malversion that Lovo Kuščević made. Yesterday we had a chance to see one man, Andrej Plenkovic, relativizing all the laws of this country, relativizing everything we have achieved with great effort. When I say what we have achieved, it is a fight for the rule of law, a fight for the rule of law, a fight against conflicts of interest. Sometimes, we rarely did our own will, we did it much more often because it was driven by someone on the outside. Today we did not take one, we took 10 steps back, because the president of one political party put the whole party back on the bumper of theft, abuse and malfeasance. The president of the HDZ sent out the exact same message yesterday as Ljubo Cesic Rojs did in his own time and said who put up the pit, he said, the HDZ has re-converted into a criminal organisation. Some will say that she never stopped being one. I may have naively hoped so, but since yesterday, there's no doubt about it. Andrej Plenkovic defended Lovre Kuščević and said who he was bailing on, he proved the values he cared about, and those values are not at all Western values that he allegedly proclaimed in Brussels, not those are the values of one plague, these are the values of one era, one political order from which I hoped we had left. But the story didn't stop at that. The story went one step further today, and it went one step further by being a respected colleague of Branko Bačić, president of the Representatives' Club of the political party HDZ announced its readiness to break this document, and this document is colleagues and colleagues especially you from the HDZ, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the trust of a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia must be discussed within 30 days of the request for discussion. Not about 30 days, not 60 days, but 30 days. The opinions and attitudes that I had today had heard from my esteemed colleague Bačić, that this would not have to be discussed within 30 days, but that we could discuss the Minister's impeachment and in the autumn represent a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you are already ready to defend Mr Kuštević and his thief, and it is obvious that, if you are willing to compromise this little reputation that remains of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot prevent you from doing so. It is your right and you will if you want, if you want to leave Mr Kuštević in a position to continue cheating, stealing and abuse the position to do so, but do not step on it and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And to that, dear colleagues and colleagues, you have no right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138920	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138921	Next is counterpart Nenad Stazic in front of SDP's Club of Representatives, please welcome fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138922	Thank you, Vice President. Today, in 1856, Nikola Tesla was born, and today, the Croatian Parliament declared the day of Nikola Tesla. Tesla lit up the whole world but not the brains of the lady HDZ and all HDZ men together from the prime minister to the lower. Namely, Nikola Tesla had a monument in Gospić, in the centre of Gospić, on 16 February 1992 that monument was mined. Why is it mined? Well, not because Tesla invented electricity, not because the monument was ugly, so he was harassing the environment, it was mined because Tesla was a Serb and found himself an asshole who could mine it. All right, now, there's a jerk, there's a bunch of them, and they're gonna be, they say the mother of an asshole is always pregnant. But for 27 years it wasn't enough to return that monument to where it was. They don't give it away. The monument has been drained and is located in the storage of the left-hand art store since 2006. But Miss HDZ won't let him return to his post. I expect HDZ people to stop paying for electricity because Tesla invented it. The monument is the work of Frana Krsinić, one of the best Croatian sculptors. Such a monument is located on Niagara Falls and in Belgrade. The Belgrade airport is called Nikola Tesla. The one in Zagreb, Franjo Tudjman, although it should be the other way around, because Nikola Tesla was born in Smiljan, Croatia and Franjo Tudjman was the president of the Football Club Partizan in Belgrade, which is probably what he deserved. This destruction of the monument is a proof of the culture of the Croatian people. They've been torn down since the '90s in 2964, almost 3,000, only 400. And it is not Frano Krsinic's only great sculptor whose monuments have been torn down. The genius monument of Vojin Bakic was also destroyed, which is a monument to the victory of the Slavonia Revolution in Kamenska in '92. A year. It wasn't a monument to the revolution, it was a monument to beauty. At the time it was set was the largest abstract sculpture, the largest abstract monument in the world. It's not restored, it's not returned. Bakic's monument on Petrovo Gora was also devastated, and it was completely destroyed, except it didn't fall apart. But the Ministry of Culture and this government have neither hearing nor understanding. Bakic's monument in Kamenska was a monument of beauty and this one in Gospic Nikola Tesla was a monument of reason. But HDZ doesn't care about beauty or brains. For them, the national spine, the nationalist spine, is the ultimate range of culture and beauty. Tesla lit the world, but the light to HDZ doesn't need, they love the dark, dense, opaque, medieval darkness because in such darkness they can steal best, in such darkness they can paint the same tunnel, in such darkness they can turn chickens into forks with a pool, in such darkness they can't report them, in such darkness they can do what they want from the '90s to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138923	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138924	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238, so often Mr. Stazic uses the pay phone to insult, humiliate, demean, etc., people who feel otherwise because they are of opposite belief. So he's using Tesla to show hate. It is not the first time Mr. Stazić has insulted your common sense here in the Croatian Parliament. It's beneath every level of your communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138925	Thank you, thank you, no injured Rules of Procedure, because this is a free position, slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138926	We move to the next presentation of the position on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138927	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today at the beginning of the cabinet session Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic referred among other things to our proposal for a law discussed yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. on the provision of free transport for students with difficulty from the island to the mainland. And also because he said that this government has taken great care of people with disabilities, that it is particularly sensitive to their problems and has done a lot for people with disabilities since the start of the mandate. However, a few days ago this same government in which the Ministry of Science and Education operates, of course, adopted or entered into force a Regulation on the terms and conditions of the exercise of the rights of regular students to a subsidized residence. With this rule with 31 August this year, meaning for a little more than a month, students with disabilities who are in doctoral studies and who are currently at Stjepan Radić's homes and home on Cvetna, have to go out on the street because this government decided by this government, only because these students after completing their studies and that they should pay some doctoral studies whose semesters are somewhere around 10 000 kunas are employed, do and therefore the government of the Republic of Croatia wants to do so with the law that they have entered into force a few days ago and that I will remind them that until the adoption of this regulation, students in postgraduate or doctoral studies, whether they are working or not if the persons with disabilities are able to obtain accommodation in the home and not only that, until 2017, the government of the Republic has funded or co-financed their doctoral studies, means not only that you decided to cancel out the funding or to be able to do so much of education, because they really have to be able to do so much, I warned of three problems related to this Regulation last week here, while the rule was still in the public debate, the day after the ministry came into contact with the students and respected two items which were commendable, however, this one did not in spite of appeals, this one refused, refused to comply, so the rule of law came into force and 31 August 2019 people in a wheelchair, persons with disabilities, our future doctors of science must go to the road because it was decided by Minister Divjak and because it was supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by A. Plenkovic. I appeal to you from this pay phone, it's not too late, you make a decision on the exemption, it won't be anything spectacular, these people have so far had those rights, you won't give them anything new, but you'll take them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u138928	I thank my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139169	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, we shall begin by asking questions to the Government or to an individual member of the Government in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Regulation (EU) No 132/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2013, p. 1). The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda, so Comrade Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139170	Mr. President, honourable MPs and representatives and members of the Government, I think it is time for me to ask you by your authority with the members of the Government to allow us to have written parliamentary questions answered within the prescribed Rules of Procedure or within a reasonable period of time, but not for a few months that certain fellow MPs have warned me that they are waiting for an answer to written parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139171	Comrade Bauk, thank you for reminding me of that. Here, I will now inform you of the following, the total number of questions asked to this day in this summary is 1662 questions. 2016 was 47 questions, 2017. 324 questions, 2018 997 questions, 2019 until now 294 questions. The government has answered 1364 questions, and there are 249 left, so I ask the Government to have these questions answered, but given the large number of questions you see growing from 47 questions in 2016 to 997 in 2018, I think the Government is doing quite well, and here I am asking them to then and what they are not to answer on time. We now move on to MP questions, our first turn is our representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139172	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly, but I would like to refer my question to Minister Divjak. According to the guidelines for the development of a network of school institutions and education programmes presented in Vukovar-Srijem County, which caused heated reactions by local leaders, the optimal elementary school was presented as a school in one shift, ranging from 16 to 18 grade departments, i.e. it would have 320 to 480 pupils. My question is whether we can foresee these guidelines and the possibility of a lower standard elementary school with regard to the number of students or classrooms, respecting the specificities of certain areas, when I say above all I mean specificities relating to the index of development as well as areas populated by members of national minorities, especially referring to this specificity relating to areas inhabited by members of national minorities. Because certain standards exist also in the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities. The Constitutional Court also gave its opinion in 1999. Since I come from this area facing mass eviction, I think that if we stay with these high standards, it's justified to know who we're actually going to apply these guidelines or how a network of schools are going to form with, as I said with such high standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139173	I thank the representatives of Jeckov and ask the Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak to respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139174	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you to the MPs, the esteemed representative of Jeckov on the matter, and I must admit that I have also been surprised by a lot of false news and information related to these guidelines. So first of all, thank you for asking. Secondly, we need to know that the ministry provides guidelines that contain exclusively objectives and data. So we don't do a network of schools in any way but it's on the founders, so the founders in your example because you mention Vukovar-Srijem County, it's in the county to propose a network of schools for their area. How's that gonna work? Well, considering, above all, the equal availability of education but not just any quality education. So this is not done by the ministry, but proposed by the founders, the ministry collects proposals, seeks the opinion of the National Council for Human Resources Development, and the government brings in a network. And here we now have to understand that all of this in these guidelines, and you can all be sure of that, the distinguished ladies' MPs and gentlemen's representatives, because the guidelines in public consultation are available to everyone, you will see that in no way is the prejudication of decisions, but the guidelines are based on the state pedagogical standard that was adopted almost 10 years ago this assembly made it second, of course, on legal provisions. What you're talking about is an optimal school, but in no way will it mean that schools will be abolished, but that registration areas will be considered, because unfortunately we have a situation where in the same city you have half-empty schools in the center, and then schools that work in three shifts in the suburbs, so you need to think about registration areas, you need to think about the availability of different programs. In any case, the availability and programme implemented in the language and letter of the national minorities is our legal obligation and belongs to the category of equal availability and equal rights and we must also consider that it needs to be rationally equipped with resources. However, consider that the change in the status of the school, for example, that the school instead of being a parent school and becoming a regional school does not in any way reduce the availability of education because the district schools remain in the same place, means students attend school in the same building, only that school is connected to other schools. Why does it matter? Well, that's because, for example, a job contract for teachers can be one and they work in more schools. It also enables flow and equipment and means the school curricula can be united, so it certainly contributes to the quality of education. So here I am asking you all, especially the founders who had a meeting at the ministry, had the opportunity to hear about these guidelines, and now they are guidelines in public consultation, so you all have the opportunity to see that you are really referring to the document to read and see which direction it is going in and that we are really avoiding the unargumented, unargumented statement that we have already had in public and then the public alerting about topics that should be important to everyone, which is a quality education available to everyone. So in this case, I am all convinced that what the ministry is doing, doing in cooperation with the founders, I expect the founder's responsibility in terms of optimal use of resources, but also in the guidelines we wrote that any removal of the programme or perhaps some institutions must take care of all these specificities that you have talked about. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139175	I'd like a representative of Jack's now, to give the evidence, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139176	I thank you, Madam Minister, I am only partially satisfied with your response and I am expressing concern that the situation may occur for the county to literally understand your guidelines and what will happen in that case. If they literally understand what you have predicted, the following will happen that 16 schools, 16 schools in villages or villages built or renovated or equipped will be closed to Vukovar-Srijem County. Now there's really a question that we've been doing it for, and there's a legitimate question of what really is about demographic measures, because this is completely contradictory of all the demographic measures that we've just voted here. I again express concern especially when it comes to specificities relating to schools attended by members of national minorities, and I am afraid that this will not be taken into account because I can now give you a few examples which are precisely, which are precisely in favour of not caring for certain county structures when it comes to education of members of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139177	Let's now go to the second question, MP Tomislav Sokol, the question is raised by Minister of Labour and Pension System Marko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139178	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. The House adopted a package of pension reform laws late last year. And we saw that the pension reform also mentioned was praised by the European Commission and was one of the main reasons for leaving the process of excessive macroeconomic imbalances as well as for obtaining, i.e. returning to the investment rating of the Republic of Croatia. So these are concrete results. On the other hand, we have this union initiative that requires, that is, the launch of a referendum on these 67 years, meaning an increase in the retirement age that the SDP government originally voted on about 5 years ago. Well, now I'm interested in ministers what the effects of this reform are so far, how is the implementation going and how are you commenting on this union initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139179	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139180	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Just as you said reforming 6 pension laws is currently one of the most complete interventions in the pension system. The objectives of the pension reform were clear. On the one hand, we want bigger pensions for our citizens, which is what this government did and made 7.54% of pensions have grown and we are aware that they are small and that is why those with the smallest pensions can expect an additional 3.13% increase of 1.7. The second objective of the pension reform was to address certain irregularities or inequalities among the different cohorts primarily of women born after '62. The year where 3,000 women would have had 100 euros less pension if it hadn't been for pension reform. The third goal was to strengthen the second pillar and make it possible for our youngest to save and thus increase pensions. One of the same results of the pension reform was allowing pensioners to work part-time and receive full pension. And I can say that here's the goal is very well going 10,000 pensioners currently doing what's twice as much as 31.12 this year. And this is exactly the contribution on the one hand and the increase of pensions or their incomes and, on the other hand, their involvement in society. This government protects and motherhood, we also added to women 6 months per child for internship, which will have an effect of 2% higher pension. When we talk about 67 years again, I have to resuscitate the Croatian public until 67 years old, we have an institute and a long-term insurance company, those who collect 41 years of internship will be able to retire at 60 years of age. Which means all those who are in the professions that are entering the labour market early will be able to do so at 60 years of age, those who study until 24, 25 will go on average at 65 years of age. When we speak, you also pointed out that in 67 years, the SDP government introduced in 2013, this government only accelerated to retire from 2033. When we talk about life lengths already Croatian citizens live on average, the expected age is 78 years, 79.6 years of EU average, and in the last 15 years it has increased by 5.5 years. So in 2033, for 14 years, we are expected to be on the EU average by then and a good part of the countries include Germany has an increase by 69 years. We're aware that pensions are small, but that's exactly why this government is working to increase them. Those who do 40 years of internship have 70% average salary. What I can say is that on Friday we will launch a tender to join actively in retirement, 100 million kunas for the active ageing of our pensioners and their activities just to get them more involved in society. As for the referendum, of course we welcome the democratic right to a referendum, but also our citizens must be aware that it has its price, that the price of this referendum is when we take all costs up to 2040. 45 billion kuna and will result in an average of either 5% less pensions or leaving 45 billion kuna to our children and grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139181	Here you go, fellow Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139182	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am pleased that you have made such a very thorough and precise argument and explained all the important aspects of pension reform that can, in fact, be partly reduced to an increase in pensions and, on the other hand, to the long-term financial sustainability of the system. I'm also glad that you've pointed out the hypocritical parts of the opposition that, as always, only criticise and there's no cover for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139183	The third is the representative Gordan Maras who asks the question to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic, as he is gone, the prime minister will answer the question. Comrade Maras, just before you go, I'm obliged to once again warn you that I find it inappropriate to violate the rules of electoral promiscation what you're doing, so if you continue to be re-declared, this time you will be the ethical commission. which has been formed in the meantime [[Intruder Maras: Just log in.]] [[Intruder Maras: Just let HDZ report me, I have no problem with them.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tolusic is gone, but here I believe he will gather courage and answer our prime minister's questions which are more than obvious. So Croatia shakes up affairs, Croatia wakes up every day with a new affair. We started with Agrokor, we continued with Mercedes of 100,000 euros in front of HDZ ministers' houses, and then the ministers of the chicken pot sat in the theatre of entrepreneurs at the matches of the Croatian national team, so we were dealing with whether there was a large or a spectre of the rat, and we ended up with a scandalous affair that now went public a few days ago, which is that the Prime Minister shares the Republic of Croatia on the victim, calling foreign ambassadors to go with him to Jasenovac, and not with those who have traditionally organized pies for the victims there during the second year. Holy shit. The war. So we're having an affair about an affair that culminates with, here, we see Mr. Falcon here, who is satisfied with his pensions. It is good to hear that HDZ candidates are on European pensions in the Republic of Croatia, so vote all those who are happy for Mr Falcon and the HDZ list. I'm unhappy with pensions, it's scandalous how pensions are low in Croatia and what I'm saying is that the culmination of everything, the statement by the HDZ Ressler that carries the HDZ list, that Slavonia has flourished. Unfortunately, are you ashamed, Mr. President, that three hundred thousand Croats and Croats, citizens of Croatia came out of our homeland while you were [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Prime Minister? [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139185	Here, answer me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139186	Thank you very much, President HS. Since Mr Maras did not intend to ask me a question anyway, and there is no real question for Tolusic either, well, he will not get an answer from me, obviously there is nothing to get from him in writing either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139187	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139188	Thank you very much. We see that the Prime Minister is essentially in fear. Of Croatian citizens, the HDZ will never win any worse than in these elections. People in the Republic of Croatia, they've had enough of HDZ, thieving, the robbery we see ending, the president of the HDZ and the president of the HDZ government ending up in prison, to see how you treat Croatian citizens. Isn't it funny that the HDZ Ressler, Mr. Ressler, who wears the HDZ list, says it's never been nicer in Slavonia than it is now. Isn't it a shame that the HDZ Falcon, a candidate, says pensions are excellent in the Republic of Croatia. It's a shame how you act, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ to our citizens. I'm sure no one can support that. Croatian citizens, colleagues and colleagues were not born for Ireland. You laugh, Mr. Plenkovic, that's very funny. Three hundred thousand of our fellow citizens have moved out of the Republic of Croatia in your term. Is that funny to you? Is that entertaining you? He doesn't entertain me. I'm worried about it, and I want it to change. You act as if you are enough to yourself, as if the HDZ state, that it can do whatever it wants, that's how you behave within the party, that's how you act as prime minister. And you need it. You finally need someone to tell you a lot. Because we weren't born for Ireland, Mr. Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139189	The 4th question, MP Rezimir Varda, is being asked by Minister of State Property Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139190	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I'm asking Mr. Goran Maric, Minister of State Property. As a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, citizens address me and send me copies of letters that also refer to you and to the CERP concerning the compensation for the seized property during the Yugoslav communist rule. Namely, the Restructure Centre, for acquired assets as an asset, gives shares in nominal value, in some cases failed companies, companies that are in heavy losses or companies where there are no employees. I'm interested in a few answers, if I may sublime one question. First, why hasn't the CERP issued solutions in years at all? Secondly, why in nominal value for companies that are not on the stock market? And thirdly, I've been curious, since you took responsibility for state property, what's the situation now and what's the relationship to the owners of the seized property in relation to the return of the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139191	Thank you, too. I ask Minister Goran Maric to answer the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139192	Thank you very much, Agent Varda. Thanks for asking. Unfortunately, the communist regime had a legitimate practice of kidnapping people's property. And not only the kidnapping of property but also the exorcism of people from their hearth, and for the kidnapping and for the exorcism, there are also powerful judgments of the courts of that time. And unfortunately, this and such crimes will remain a permanent stain on Croatian history and no compensation after so many decades will be a satisfactory satisfaction to those who have been forced to grow up to see others enjoy the fruits of work and their fathers. And I understand them all who have experienced it. In the formal sense of the return solution and the right to compensation, the authorities of the state administration in the county and in the City of Zagreb, and on the basis of these solutions, the payment obligation is also made. In some solutions, the CERP is also a link to the fee payment, and unfortunately, such solutions have waited for years for the payment order. We found five years behind, that it wasn't paid and that no payouts were made. In total, by 2016, there were conclusions in the transfer of the nominal million with compensation authorities amounting to 620 million kuna. We've solved all the backlogs in these two years, and there's no more waiting for payment. It is true and it is regularly concluded for all who are now in line for compensation. It is true that the conclusions were made, which were paid by the shares, companies that do not have employees, which have no business activities, but that is no longer so, and we are making conclusions in accordance with market circumstances and under the legal rules, do everything that can be done to make it, let's call it injustice, although it is much more than injustice, compensated those who have been so disproved and taken away from the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139193	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139194	Thank you very much, dear Minister for your reply. I'm pleased with your answer, but I'm not satisfied with the state, so please, I have here, of these citizens, who sent me all this documentation to answer this memo in writing, in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139195	Now let's go to Question 5, Agent Ivan Lovrinovic, the question asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139196	I have asked the question of Prime Minister Plenkovic, which refers to the signing of an annex contract on concessions over agricultural land, companies in the system of the former Agrokor, the current Fortenovo. The question is why are these annexes of concessions on agricultural land in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia not already signed and they had to be signed by April 1st? During this whole time, even today, more pressures, ranging from government and state institutions, are being signed by the mayors and mayors. Ten years ago, when a concession was signed with Agrokora over agricultural land, that contract was signed by the Minister of Agriculture. Why are you insisting now and forcing the mayors and mayors to sign them, and you don't want to sign it? In fact, the process of transferring the concession contract to Agrocor, so-called Agrokora. mirror companies, it's illegal. There is no automation, in the transfer of concessions to new owners, and that is contrary to the current Agricultural Land Act. The fact that it is said that this is precisely possible on the basis of lex Agrokor, as a law, it clearly shows that this law is written for certain stakeholders and as such criminal. They want to be allowed, interested groups to come into possession, 30,000 hectares of the most fertile country in eastern Croatia. Therefore, stop putting pressure on these honorable men, commissioners and mayors, who defend local and national interests, the whim of traitors from themselves you want to transfer now to them and their local environments. We change Croatia, demands that newly created legal entities have to go to public competitions again, and those who pass must sign new contracts, with clear development programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139197	Thank you, here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139198	Thank you very much, MP Lovrinović, I see that like Mr. Meras, you use quite a lot of hard words, in qualifications, which you have rightly spoken, it is not good for you, because it classifies you not as a group of politicians, but as a group of politicians. A group of politicians who don't know the law, who doesn't know the content of the settlement, who doesn't know the instructions of the Ministry of Agriculture,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139199	Wait a minute, please, President, just a second, colleague Maras, what do you want? ... Look, there's a form in which it's pronounced, your rudeness, train, outside this hall, please stop being rude. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're getting your first warning, you're welcome to your seat, there's nothing. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139200	So, distinguished representative Lovrinović, unlike you and this group, politicians, we had two years ago for Easter, courage, to pass a law, which ensured the survival of the company, which provided jobs for all employees, who secured 100% of the payments to all OPGs, which ensured the staying of all Croatian suppliers of the then Agrokor. The law was also approved by the Constitutional Court, included in the Annex to the Insolvency Law Regulation, EU Member States, the settlement was made, voted in accordance with Croatian rules, the High Commercial Court confirmed and the settlement was implemented. You have a new group called Fortenova, since April 1st, has formed its own bodies, works, works. The results of the Konzum for this Easter, 2 years later, were extraordinary, extraordinary, and all this would not have happened if we had been guided by politics performances, like this one was yours. What they need to do now in signing the annexes of the concession agreement, is to technically implement the settlement. It is 29 municipalities and towns in the Republic of Croatia, the settlement has a constitutive character, and all that is now being implemented is one routine thing. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the request is submitted by a new group, i.e. the transfer of the mirror company, followed by the opinion of the State Attorney's Office, followed by the decision of the representative body and followed by the signing of the mayor or mayor, as well as the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture, this is the whole process and this will happen. These contracts last as long as they lasted before. And there's the whole story, this process is finished, in the best and most painless way without cost for Croatian taxpayers. And what is most important to us, we have secured the interests of the Croatian economy. Ask a few OPGs, ask a few suppliers if they are satisfied, whether payments are made in time, whether it has had a transformative effect on processes in the Croatian economy and ways of business, that is the real question, not the political question whether to sign something or whether it will be signed by the leaders of local and regional self-government, that question is settled by regulations, maybe you don't know them, maybe you didn't have time to get to know each other in detail, I suggest you, like Mr. Meras, study the detailed, detailed rules, as well as the names of the people you mention, and then you'll know why the answer is like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139201	Before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139202	Thank you very much. My name is Maras, Gordan Maras, and Mr Plenkovic knows this very well and deliberately disproves MPs here, in 238, the article was injured, did not collect the courage to answer me why 300,000 people, mostly young people, left the Republic of Croatia, but now is cowardly referred when I can't answer it. It's your job to protect the MPs, and don't let the Prime Minister act like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139203	Comrade Maras, then, first you deliberately pronounced the wrong name of one of the candidates on the European elections list and then I, I did not warn you, I left you at your will to do what you want. So now it's also possible that the lapus may have happened, or maybe even the intention, that I didn't judge again, or what you did. So, I ask you that when you pull, when you pull a weapon, be aware that you will also get back, so don't be sad, don't be sad, cause conflicts now because there's no reason for it, we have current mornings, questions are asked that interest our citizens and I ask you that in that spirit we then debate. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139204	Mr. President, I think this could be done under an article. 238, after the speech, I warned my colleague Maras of the real name of the holder of the HDZ list, and in his eyes I saw a sincere surprise and regret that he did not know it, so I am convinced that he did not purposely say it, simply the man was not so media present and confused man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139205	Okay, your colleague Ressler's got your HDZ list, Ressler, Carlo Ressler. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139206	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139207	White man, let me give you my first word. Here's my colleague, Beljak, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139208	You've hurt, you've hurt an officer. 238. Mr. Jandrokovic's Rules of Procedure and on exactly the same subject why you have warned Mr. Maras multiple times, you are now campaigning for European elections and promoting your candidate whom no one has ever heard of until a few days ago and it is no wonder that he does not know his name. So now you have to report yourself for what you reported to Mr. Maras, or this laptop, and I expect you to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139209	This really wasn't the use of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but okay, like everyone else, so did you, so let's move on. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139210	Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, the question I have asked you now after your answer I see that the shot is in the srid, you've been upset, you've become boastful again, in the absence of the right answer you call me another politician, you see for you as a former diplomat, and you're also a diplomat, not a prime minister because you don't make decisions, it's really mildly said strange. You haven't been to Bela, my dear Prime Minister, and you're afraid to go there. White is no longer Baranja, and Baranja is no longer White, that's what the Baranians say, but you're looking for arguments, here's the argument now. Belje was formerly employed until the establishment of the Croatian state of 6000 workers, after the release of 3000, are now below 1500. You charge small OPGs a rent on land four times more than the PICs will now receive in the possession of foreigners. Belje and other PICs and Agrokor i.e. Fortenovo are no longer Croatian companies and you know it well. You have spent economic policy and other governments, ethnic cleansing, but not just Croats, but all other national minorities living there. These look like hard words to you, that's reality. You're saying you saved your employment there. In the Jagodnjak municipality that actually rents 1,500 acres of infertile land, only four people are employed, but you don't know that, you're looking for arguments. You must hide from these arguments. You are completely unsuccessful in running this government, you run a pyr campaign, your minister of agriculture spends huge funds around, invites farmers to register, not paint when giving money because it is late or not paying off. Therefore, this policy of yours has failed, Croatia is going back, people are moving out, and with you It's all nice, the two of us. [[Intruder: Thank you]] We live in two different countries. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139211	Let's go to the sixth question, Representative Miro Bulj, asks President Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139212	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, she echoed the news when the Chinese prime minister was meeting with you that the Republic of China would export milk to China and certain protocols were signed and the agriculture minister announced this about milk exports. Of course, it is commendable that you will export milk from, probably the last Croatian cow of Charoja, but he would ask you a question, when the Republic of Croatia does not have 50% of its dairy products, for its own purposes, we have a specific case and the question arises and the least surprise and apprehension of our people from dairy production, and mainly from my Cetina region, of course from Slavonia. We have in January 2010. a large one of the construction of dairy that is owned by Imlexa i.e. Serbia's largest milkmen, the milkman, of course, is privatised by man as Serbian media, said Milan Beka, who served as privatisation minister during Slobodan Milosevic and said he pulled out money and bought all the milkers in Subotica, the dairy man in Belgrade and the milkman in Republika Srpska one through a foreign fund. And now through the blue milk shop, they called the Milkman Sinj, they got the opportunity to import that milk, but there's no dairy in Sinj. I'm asking you who you are, and I'm going to give you this milk now, for whom you signed that protocol, is it for Serbian milk? and export or Croatian? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139213	Thank you. Here's the answer, Prime Minister. The answer, and the milk when it comes. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139214	Thank you, dear Representative Bulj, and I am pleased that you have commended the substantial visit of the Chinese Prime Minister to Croatia, the first such visit in 27 of our independence, the fact that the man representing a billion and 400 million people came here for 3 and a half days tells us something about the respect of Croatia. He says something about having the opportunity to sign 10 different agreements, between Croatia and China, one concerning economic co-operation and investment, one concerning tourism, one relating to education, one relating to sport, one relating to exports of high-quality dairy products. So what is the role of the state in international relations is to open up new opportunities for cooperation to its economic operators and open trade exchange runways and make Croatia export-oriented. That's the point of that agreement, that's what we did, that's what the Ministry of Agriculture was working on, that's what's now an opportunity for Croatian dairy producers to take advantage of those certificates they've now received from the Chinese side. As you know, China said a few months ago that it wants to change its philosophy and to favour imports of products and services from export-oriented countries to China. It was in Shanghai in November, said the Chinese president, we understood the message well and concluded a series of agreements that are in the function of the Croatian economy. The same will be true with other agreements and those relating to intermodal transport and railway lines and the port of Rijeka and the cooperation of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These are all concrete agreements and fruits of the three-day stay of the Chinese prime minister in Croatia, as well as the largest multilateral meeting that even had 17 prime ministers from Central and Eastern Europe in Dubrovnik a few days ago. But what seems important to me is that this picture that you're trying to project about some kind of defetism, pessimism, the criticism of everything that exists, and the feeling that we're living in maybe two different societies, two different states, so I'm going to single out just a few essential elements that are relevant to what we're doing right now. Croatia came out of the excessive budget deficit procedure in the term of office of the government, Croatia came out of the process of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, Croatia for the first time in 2017 achieved 2 billion kunas of the budget surplus, the latter being recorded in '98. when tax is increased, i.e. the value added tax introduced. And this year, despite the payments for the state guarantees of the SDP governments, we achieved a budget of over 758 million kuna. Croatia has reduced the share of public debt in GDP 74.6%, Croatia has increased the minimum wage by 24%, Croatia has increased the average salary of 800 kuna in the government's term, Croatia has increased employment more than before, and unemployment is lower. It's all about accomplishments and trends that don't exactly happen with an invisible hand. They happen because of the policy measures we have, the laws we adopt and the activities we carry out. In this respect, the chances that our dairy industry has on the Chinese market are great, it is up to them to exploit them, and the instruments we have, which is Croatian diplomacy and politics will help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139215	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139216	You did not answer my question, for whom this is, this protocol on milk exports is signed, because simply the milkman in Sinj does not exist only have an address and they are.../incomprehensible/... Serbian milkmaker, the milker of Serbia's Imlex, whom the owner means where money is most likely from suspected privatisations such as privatisations in Croatia by Milan Beka, Minister of Privatisation Slobodan Milosevic. It is as if you are now telling bananas to export Croatia, someone who, meaning this is just a journey, whose milk, so you must, I expected you to write about protecting the last cows of Croatia. So do you know that 64,000 families were dealing with the dairy producer was, now we have under 5,000, do you know since we entered the EU to import more milk, increase, we produce less, do you know that Slavonia is empty, do you know that we just withdrew 17% of the EU's funds? 10.5 billion 17%. Well, actually under these lights go and see 2/3 of Croatia. No blue milkmaker, a blue milkman serves only for the transport of Serbian milk, as you say in China and the EU. Where's the Croatian farmer? Slavonia is empty, and fairy tales about the project Slavonia, so you are worse in the real world, come to my Dalmatian Zagora, walk the ministers by that end, and see if you hear children crying, if you hear cattle, you will see. Sinj's milkmaker, Sinj's milkmaker, does not exist, it is fictional that some criminal who opened his milkmaker in Serbia and that through Croatia, whose interests are you protecting? I'll give this and the vice presidents of the government, I know she wasn't at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's advisor, but she was little Dacic. I'll give it to the Minister of Agriculture, milk, and let him see what the Croatian farmer has experienced. To promote Serbian products in China.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139217	Comrade Bulj, thank you. You know, this could be seen as a covert commercial for a blue milkman, so I don't know if what you're doing is useful or promoting something that you're doing. ... Thanks wouldn't, but there isn't, it's not the usual to advertise products, nobody, so neither is this milk. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on, now it's up to MP Ante Plazonic, who asks the question of the Minister of the Sea, Freight and Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139219	Thank you, Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Minister and Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I ask Minister Butković, it is known that about a month, so in late March of this year, the President of the Croatian Government, Mr Andrej Plenković and the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, Mr Milan Bandić, signed a contract on financing and construction, one important transport facility in the City of Zagreb, which is located at the crossing of the Adriatic Avenue and the Avenue of Dubrovnik, and I ask you, Mr Minister, to explain to us what importance this facility is for the citizens of the City of Zagreb and all those who will be trafficling that route. How is the facility financed, and how much will it ultimately cost, and finally, when can we realistically expect to complete the construction of this facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139220	Minister Butkovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139221	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. It is true that currently the construction of the largest infrastructure transport project in Zagreb is started, it is the Rotor Remetinec, which is financed by the corner. European funds. It is true that in March of the month a contract was signed between the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the City of Zagreb and the Central Agency for the Implementation of EU Funds, etc. SAFU, a grant contract, which provides 85% of the 331 million kuna, what it costs to build the Remetinec Rotor. The remainder of 15% is financed from the state budget, i.e. through the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, so that this biggest project in Zagreb, the transport project is financed by 100% of the EU's, the state budget. I believe that the implementation of this project will also have a significant impact on road safety. Now the former Rotor Remetinec had a total daily traffic of about 100,000 vehicles although it was designed for double less traffic and I believe it will also shorten travel time for all inhabitants of Zagreb, but not only for the inhabitants of Zagreb, but also for those who come to Zagreb, who pass the route daily, to reach their destinations. Also, the works started at the end of last year, what we know at this point, they should be completed in 2020 somewhere in the middle of the year, according to the information I have, going as planned, and there should be no delay in the completion of that project. As for the other projects in the City of Zagreb, transport projects we have signed a contract for the purchase of 44 new buses, so that the total, now in the City of Zagreb, through the Ministry of the Sea, transport of infrastructure, implements, a total project worth more than 400 million kuna, and we are preparing some new calls, for which I also believe the City of Zagreb with my infrastructure transport projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139222	Appearance of fellow Plaznoic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139223	Thank you, Minister Butkovic. I'm pleased with your answer. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139224	The eighth question, representative Romana Jerkovic, asks Health Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139225	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, that the Croatian health care before collapse is no secret. I know you think differently, but on the one hand, the waist claims it, and on the other hand, you can't deny some facts. You can't deny it, for example. These waiting lists are unacceptablely long, waiting for tests, waiting for hospital treatment, for surgery. Citizens are forced to seek salvation with the private, but not everyone has the money for it. You can't deny, too, that there are no labs in some environments, that there are no radiological diagnostics, that there aren't enough specialists, you can't deny, either, that the hospital system continues to create debts. You cannot deny that nurses and doctors leave Croatia, go abroad and seek better working conditions. You cannot deny that we have become an unhealthy nation, suffering from obesity, dying twice as much as on average on the EU. You can't deny that we have a catastrophicly poor survival of cancer patients. You cannot deny that at the rate of mortality from colon lung cancer, breast, we are among the highest in Europe. You cannot deny that for the treatment of severely ill children with innovative life-saving drugs, the whole of Croatia stands out. How about all that? You say, so whoever doesn't see health care reform, go to the occult. You also said, to quote you, if we want to follow the world's medicine, it pulls a significant increase in prices every year. What did you mean by this minister? Can you explain to the Croatian public what kind of increase you are announcing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139226	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139227	Dear Madam Representative Jerkovic, thank you very much for your observation. If he speaks medically, you've made some good diagnosis and you've set some quite badly. For example, it is very ugly for someone who is a professor at the medical school to say that in Croatia twice as much as in Europe is dying. It's a bit of a concern that someone who deals with science shouldn't say it so easily. But the numerous observations you said deserve an answer. So I'll start at the end. So it's not any invention of Croatia or me as current minister that unfortunately and fortunately means when I say fortunately, which is that all the new treatment methods in the world collect on average 5 to 10% of medicine and so on in Croatia. So it wasn't me who discovered the hot water, it was me who confirmed it. So it's fortunate that these new forms of treatment give you new hopes, new healings, an extension of life, but they're unfortunately costing. That's exactly what this government has been responding to. So let me remind you, in two years, the separation for innovative drugs has increased us double with 700 million we've come to a million and 400 and given these trends these numbers will have to be larger to follow. We also invested in Croatian hospitals, in Croatian health homes, somewhere around 2 billion kuna. Given the problem of human resources, we have launched a specialization process. If you look now and several years ago, the number of specialists on average increased by 30 to 50% and in some hospitals by 100% more than it was a few years ago. And these observations when you mentioned oncology, or occurrence, without boasting here but really in recent years thanks to better response, primarily better patient response to screening, I'm talking about colon cancer, I'm talking about breast cancer now, we have a better response and we have a better survival or better healing. But these are procedures that don't go with one government and no matter who the minister is, this one or that one. So this is something that we need to agree on, where we have to work and work on, and I have repeatedly said that, by not sharing in the parties of the former, future or current administrations, it is necessary to insist on healthy programs, what is compatible with world medicine, which is compatible with medicine proven, based on evidence. About this so-called. collection for the treatment of patients, on the one hand, it is to commend the noble gesture of the Croatian people but also people outside Croatia and neighbouring countries and beyond who responded for treatment, with a note that you probably know that Croatia pays for all treatment that is not being done in Croatia. And also all countries in the world have activities in terms of raising money. And in the end I will repeat what is unfortunately not popular, and given that I do not collect points in the Parliament otherwise in public, if we want to have top medicine, if we want to keep it at the quality it is now and compete with the world in quality, if we want to keep doctors and sisters, we will have to reach a consensus as a nation that we will have to then and follow those costs because it is the only way to remain on the trail of community, remain on the trail of good and remain on the trail of solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139228	Thank you. Here's a big show for you, pal Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139229	Minister, you're a master of perjury, good for you. You're just not being honest, you're not being honest. Health is one of the fundamental social values without which there is no quality of individual life, but not only that, there is no economic development, there is no general development of society. Health is not and must not be a commodity that has a price bought by one who has money. Mr. Minister, that's completely wrong, and for you, health is a commodity. The health care must not be divided into the rich and the poor and to pay the one who has. And what about those who don't, is that social justice? Is this the social solidarity you talk about very often? I think the Ministers think you're on the wrong path entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139230	9th question MP Josip Djakic asks Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medveda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139231	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. My question is as you have announced will also be the Minister of Croatian Defence. Mr. Croatian Defence Ministers by adopting a new single law on Croatian defenders and members of their families is one of the most important measures you have announced is a measure of compensation for the unemployed developed Croatian defenders. After more than a year of application of the law as well as those measures, I would ask you nicely to present to us what this legal measure has received, what are the results of this legal measure and how many Croatian defenders are taken care of by this measure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139232	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139233	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Representative Djakic, thank you very much for your question. Of course this is about one of the most significant measures we've identified through our new law. In the process of making our law, we have thoroughly analysed the situation and recognized that 82 thousand Croatian defenders are in the phase, i.e. they do not have any income, or are not pensioners or are in a working relationship. And therefore, in the new law, we have recognised and proposed the introduction of compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders and members of their families, which is harmonised in accordance with the legislation. A total of 11000 199 requests have been received since the imposition of the measure, of which 9906 applications have been resolved to date. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We paid 56 million I would like to briefly refer to the course of treatment of unemployed Croatian defenders. Namely, the right to supply at the Ministry of Croatian Defence was abolished on 1 January 2014. and replaced by the law under the term ‘guaranteed minimum compensation’ which was effected under the Social Care Act. However, the conditions for exercising the right to guaranteed minimum compensation were not the same as the conditions for the exercise of the right to supply, so a large number of Croatian defenders could not exercise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee and thus found themselves in a difficult social situation since the supply of many was the only source of life. By abolishing the supply, the number of users of one-time cash aid granted by the Croatian Defence Ministry has increased rapidly. Therefore, from the results of the application of this measure in the Law on Croatian Defence, it is evident that the solution found in the new law clearly indicates the justification for the introduction of this measure and thus the adoption of a contribution to improving the quality of life of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139234	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139235	Thank you very much, Mr. Croatian Defence Minister. You have clearly defined the number of users who have achieved unemployment benefits, you have corrected these legal measures of injustice done to Croatian defenders in abolishing the former measure and I believe that you will continue to strictly apply the law to care and care for the rights of Croatian defenders, especially that part of the law that speaks of it, on the priority of employment, I believe that you will continue to address those who remain positively in order to achieve unemployment benefits until the possibility of their employment is realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139236	Now MP Veljko Kajtazi will ask the Minister of Management Lovri Kuštević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139237	Dear President HS, Prime Minister, Minister of Honor, I would like to refer my parliamentary question to Minister Kuštević on 5 April 2019. We were contacted by the Roma Association in Grubišno Polje, objecting to the government's decision to call elections for members of national minority councils and representatives of national minorities in units of local and regional self-government to be held on 5 May this year. The complaint refers to the fact that the Roma minority is not covered by this decision, and with the same request the German national minority from the municipality of Sirac addressed me. Although both minorities do not meet the conditions for calling minority elections according to representation in the last census of the population. 24th century. 6th century. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities states: ‘In order to determine the number of members of the national minority in order to implement the provisions of this article, the relevant census has been corrected, increased or reduced by that number of voters enrolled or deleted from the list of voters to elect members of the local self-government units’. 1. The same member of the Constitutional Law also attributes to the units of local self-government in which members of individual national minorities participate with at least 1.5% of the total population of self-government units can choose more councils of national minorities. In view of the above, I ask the following question, the respected Minister Kustevic, why the Roma national smaller in the town of Grubišna polje and the German national minority in the municipality of Sirac are not covered by the government's decision to call minority elections, although in both cases, a correction entered into the voters' register that exceeds 1.5% of the population's census, Roma with 115 registered in the list of voters of 6478 and Germans with 35 registered out of 2218 residents. In view of the legislator’s intention to write the Constitutional Law by the rights of the national minority esteemed... [[Intruder: Thank you]] By Minorities [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that the government should also be respected according to Roma national and German... [[Agreement: Comrade Kajtazi, thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139238	Answer, please, Minister Kuštević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139239	Thank you very much, President HS, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, parliamentary representatives, Croatian Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers in the Croatian Government. Mr. Kajtazi, thank you for your question. I need a little bit about history, and this short history, here, this year's, says that HS, therefore, this very High House, brought on March 1, 2019. Law on selecting councils and representatives of national minorities. I note that before the entry into force of this law, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was applied to these elections and the Law on Elections in Local and Regional Self-Government Units was applied accordingly. The Law on Local Elections, which was adopted in 2012 It is prescribed that the election of councils and representatives of national minorities will be governed by a special law which would avoid the interference of local elections and elections for councils and representatives of national minorities. So, from 2012, to March this year, this HS did not pass this law, but was adopted in March this year, just on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, this government is the first to win the power, passed the law just to enable representatives of national minorities to be granted a constitutionally guaranteed right. So that's what we realized, this government first passed that law. In addition to passing this law, we have achieved constitutional law and we have implemented constitutional law, we are also fulfilling the activities for an operational programme for national minorities adopted on 24 August 2017, in particular, this measure 271. Now, the law says that elections are held in those units where members of the national minority have 1.5%, a minimum of 1.5% of the population or 200 inhabitants in municipalities and cities, 500 in the counties, and if they do not, do not meet any of those two conditions, but have 100 inhabitants, then a representative is elected, therefore, not a council of national minorities, but representatives. It is under this criterion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has called the elections on 28 March 2019 that we have decided to dissipate elections for members of the council and representatives of national minorities, and I note that a total of 659 elections have been called, of which 515 for councils and 144 for representatives of national minorities. Of that for 59 councils for members of the Roma national minority, if we compare it to 4 years earlier, a total of 549 elections were called, so this year we strictly respect every sentence of the law so 1.5% 100, 200 and 500 respectively depending on the municipality, city or county, we have called 110 choices more. So it is clear that we have taken care of every environment where there are members of the national minority, so that they can exercise their right to have either a representative or a council. As for Grubišni Polje, therefore the law makes it clear that the 2011 census is a measurement of the population, and there is a provision in the law that it can be corrected depending on the results of the local elections, but it is therefore the date, census and population number 2011. In 2011, we had 45 members of the Roma national minority and in the local elections in '13. 94, therefore, still the number of those less than 200 as long as it takes or less than 1.5% and simply this decision to call elections made in accordance with the law. Is it possible that certain corrections are possible, and here I am really going to task the Ministry of Administration to analyse that '11 list? to be compared to all local elections, if there is a possibility we will correct, but I think this decision has been made in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139240	A colleague of Kajtazi's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139241	I thank you, exactly what you have said and I fully agree, of course there has been a correction and thanks to this government there has been a change in these representatives and presidents of national minorities' councils, but when it comes to these two municipalities or the municipality of Sirac and the town of Grubisno Polje they meet the conditions especially where 1.5% and I expect and I hope that we will, and we will ensure this in their re-elections, given that they have not had any representatives or councils so far, and it is necessary for such environments precisely because of their particular problems that they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139242	Now Representative Bruno Esih will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139243	Thank you very much, Mr. Plenkovic, here's the 11th order I have to admit that this number has grown to my heart since I was in combat with HDZ. Besides, ever since you declared me into a big European, I've loved foreign and foreign policy issues, so here's the news, although unfortunately it's not a new topic. So the authorities and local self-government in BiH agreed that the city council of Bihac would set a new location for the migrant centre in early May, along the border with the Republic of Croatia. So, what does Croatia's foreign policy, the question and Croatian politics at all, besides love with Dodik, do to reduce the pressure on its own border, it certainly only increases and how do you say, as you say, a prominent member of the family, what do you do to relieve these harmful open-door policies that have inauguration just the members of your great and happy even though it may not mean for long the families of Europeans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139244	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139245	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esich. As far as our policy on illegal migration is concerned, I think it is very well known and clear to you, the Government of the Republic of Croatia primarily employs 6,500 Croatian police officers every day at all borders of the Republic of Croatia to prevent illegal migration. You have regular reports on this, the interior minister reports it to the public. When it comes to our preparations for membership in the Schengen area in one of the two closer integrations that we are seeking, one is Schengen, and the other is the one that you last spoke of in the foreign policy view of your new interests is membership in the euro area, both these two processes this government is leading and will accomplish both. So our policy towards migration and also towards BiH is based on mutual cooperation, cooperation between states, cooperation between our police, it is day-to-day, continuous, intensive and achieving those fundamental results, which is preventing illegal migration, for our sakes, for our citizens, our sovereignty, our territory. The fact is that in East Mediterranean and Western so-called. With the western Balkan route, more and more illegal migrants are channeling towards BiH. And that's what politicians tell us, including those we keep in touch with at our police level, I also opened the same topic with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, at our meeting in Dubrovnik. What is important to us is that Croatia holds to meeting all the criteria for Schengen membership, absorbing enormous resources to strengthen our abilities, whether it is a matter of technical competence, whether it is a word of better functioning within the framework of common European efforts to control illegal migration. This testifies not only that we have fully exploited the 120 million-euro envelope that we negotiated at the time when your interest in these topics was somewhat lower, this is what you will remember when the negotiations were concluded at the time of the HDZ Government in 2011, so we got it as the first part of the funds to strengthen the external border. Meanwhile, in doing so, Minister Bozinovic achieved all those steps that others had not known before us, they did not see that there were these funds, they were not directed enough, they did not have enough experts, so these funds passed them in their mandates. That, of course, can't happen to this HDZ government. And that is why, in the wake of the protection of our borders, the protection of our sovereignty, the respect for our international obligations, the preparation for Schengen, the quality absorption of funds, better technical equipment, the fact that one of the planes within Frontex is constantly in Zadar and that it overruns the entire area of Southeast Europe and thus monitors trends in the movement of illegal migration, our police, and you have a lot of reports in Croatian media, has a very good insight where, when and how to react to our territory. We will continue to do so, and we show very good results, with respect for our regulations and European gains and international conventions, and taking care of humanity because that is what is most important in this government's policy, so if you want to do so in the policy of the European People's Party, on whose list you have been given the opportunity to sit in this HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139246	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139247	Thank you very much. Mr. Plenkovic, it's really amazing how many times you really discover your true bureaucratic nature like this. I am quite certain that those who listen well to you, that this will only make it easier for them to round up the list in the recent Europarliamentary elections. We've heard things again, but we're not what our citizens witness daily and don't tell the full truth. So, from Topusko to Korenica, that is, the crossing of Maljevac and Lika Petrovo Selo, so that is a 100 km-long move, they pass every day at every time a horde of illegal migrants. All the families of the police are already in the field. Police are exhausted, citizens are concerned, horrified, and peasants are forced to organise night guards because of the devastation of their personal property and, of course, care for their own families. We can only guess what will happen in the coming days as it warms up and what it will mean for Croatian tourism, which is fortunate or unfortunately, the only thing Croatia lives on. The only thing we don't have to doubt is the position of the government and you personally. He is certainly adorned by the obedience of European bosses, and all in the construction of your personal political path that is as boring as this bureaucratic exposé we have just had the opportunity to hear. This all you said sounds more like a future job contest at some higher European levels than a speech by the prime minister that would be concerned about the safety of his own people and his own citizens. Why don't you get there as soon as you can, 'cause obviously It's a great wish for you, I think you will. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here, that will help you precisely your young lions from the list you proposed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139248	Let's go to Question 12, Agent Ivan Celic, asking the question of Health Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139249	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Minister of Health, Mr Milan Kujundzic. 10 days ago, the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic and the Mayor of Zagreb signed a 42.3 million kuna framework agreement, of which 85% was funded by the EU Regional Development Fund. It's a feasibility study, which is the first step towards building a national children's hospital. It is a project for future generations, and I dare say this is the most important project in the Croatian health sector for the next EU financial period, both for the City of Zagreb and for the whole of Croatia. The government has so far signed 52 health contracts, a total of 2 billion kuna, of which 1.7 billion kuna from the EU is the funds for a number of hospitals throughout Croatia. Croatian medicine needs a national children's hospital and you have repeatedly come forward and said that sick children can't wait. I am interested in what is the course, which, after preparing, analysing, obtaining the necessary project technical and other necessary documentation and how realistic it is to expect co-financing from the EU funds for this strategic national project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139250	Minister Milan Kujundzic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139251	Your Honor, Dr. Cell, thank you very much for asking. You have indeed defined well, the national children's hospital is the most important health project in the Republic of Croatia and an objectively listening need. With this fortunate project, he finally went into realisation, so once I said, finally with words of action, with a feasibility study, which will include, not only medically justified content, but also architectural, environmental, energy and financial, road and any other analytical approach, he is finally moving towards the preparation of documentation, and thus financing, the construction of a national children's hospital, as a phase A and then a university hospital in Zagreb, which is actually the intention and need of 30 and 40 years ago, should finally go into realisation. In order to do so as soon as a national children's hospital has actually done something that, not only from a clinical scientific point of view, will give a major positive shift to the Croatian health system, primarily to Croatian pediatrics, but will actually make one big positive financial impact. As the university hospital will do tomorrow. However, this government did not only stay in the City of Zagreb and listenersly need to build a national university hospital, this government gave a guarantee of around EUR 100 million for the construction of a hospital in Pula and for the construction of a hospital in Rijeka, the hospital in Pula is near the end, and the hospital in Rijeka will start in the coming weeks with construction. However, we did not stop there by looking at the entire Republic of Croatia, which is, this government has provided the means to prepare documentation for the construction of a new University Hospital in Osijek and for the construction of the University Hospital in Split. So we must not close our eyes to need, preserve top medicine, preserve availability, preserve the quality of Croatian citizens and return again, especially to Croatian children. I believe that with this beginning, we have actually provided an application framework for EU funds, and I believe that the alocation, the allocation for health care in the coming period, will be such that we will be able to make not only the National University Hospital, but much wider, as we have in these two years, about two billion from EU funds, but also significant funds are provided from the equipment budget and to raise quality in hospitals and health homes throughout the Republic of Croatia. And this is just the meaning and dynamics that would mean something, and I believe that somewhere in a year, we will have a tender for an implementation or an idea and implementation project and that the construction of the National Children's Hospital will begin in the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139252	Thank you, dear representative Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139253	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your reply. Since the beginning, therefore, you have repeatedly stressed the importance of the National Children's Hospital and the signing of this agreement is the beginning of a true realization that this entry into Zagreb, therefore, in Blato, finally becomes functional. What I would also like to add with regard to the development of child adolescent psychiatry, I am glad that you have not accepted the solution that the psychiatric hospital for children and youth is developing within the hospital of psychiatric care for adults because it is not suitable for contemporary European standards, so I believe that the facilities for the psychiatric hospital for children and youth within the National Children's Hospital will be what will be most effective for both the help and the best quality of providing health services to young people who have certain mental difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139254	The 13th question is asked by the respected representative Bozo Ljubic, Minister of Management Lovri Kuštević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139255	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my fellow representatives, members of the government. Mr Minister, we have before us elections for the European Parliament on 26 May, we are aware that a large number of Croatians from the Republic of Croatia, including those from BiH, can and wish to exercise their right to vote for the European Parliament. Can you explain how BiH-based voters can vote in the upcoming European Parliament elections? Namely, part of Croatian citizens residing outside the Republic of Croatia, including those from BiH, Croatian citizens, have been discriminated against multiplely in the exercise of their electoral rights. Namely, the Law on the register of voters provides for the active registration of these voters for the exercise of their voting rights. Furthermore, they can only exercise their electoral right in diplomatic consular offices, which means a journey from tens of kilometers to Croats, and for those in overseas and European countries, hundreds or even thousands of kilometers. Speaking to persons, Croatian citizens from BiH, I have been aware that a large number of them still do not know how they can achieve their right to vote for the European Parliament although this is what the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, integration of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia into the social political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia, and I am convinced that your explanation or clarification of this issue will help, therefore, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in achieving this interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139256	The reply of the respected minister of the management of Lovra Kuščević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139257	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Mr. Representative, thank you very much for asking the question, and here I would be pleased if your question and my answer would encourage our voters who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia, not only in BiH, but throughout the world to apply, to join these European elections, not only in European elections, but in all elections, therefore, both parliamentary and presidential, to which Croatian citizens outside the Republic have the right to go out, choose and be elected. The law is clear, he says all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have equal voting rights, it has been found that voters, Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, do so abroad, at the headquarters of diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Register of Voters, in order for our voters living outside the Republic of Croatia who have their residence outside the Republic of Croatia to exercise their right to vote in the diplomatic consular office, or there to be actively registered, submitted a request and allowed to vote in that representation. However, those voters who have no residence, who have not registered within 10 days, must do this 10 days before, if not, they can come on the same day on the day of the election, only have to perform two actions, so they will have to apply and then join the vote afterwards. I stress that all those Croatian citizens who have been issued an e-personal if they are also registered, therefore, who have no residence, pardon residence in the Republic of Croatia, they are automatically registered, so our system via the DIP, they are automatically registered and they can automatically access the vote without prior notice and previous registration. So here is another incentive for all our citizens, so here are the parliamentary representatives and representatives not all e-Citizens, so they are not all members of the government, they are not all encouraged to activate, as e-Citizens, especially here is an incentive for all Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, to activate themselves as e-Citizens, then they have a series of benefits, through the personal user compartment to get a series of all documents to request documentation, but here, among other things, will be automatically registered, for voting in the DKP, where it is already located. I agree with you, and that is my personal opinion, that this amendment to the constitution, which is laid down, that our voters outside the Republic of Croatia must vote in the DKPs, that it is not good. That this reduced the response of Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens to elections, and it is clear and I believe that everyone in this House cares about, that the composition of this House, that all the results of all elections, are in the best way possible reflection of the voter's will. That we all want and wish as much turnout as possible, that as many of our citizens as possible be made known about all elections or referendum issues. However, it has been amended by the Constitution, we cannot change it. Is something going to change in the future, we'll talk about it, but I thank you again for asking. It would be an incentive for all Croatian citizens, who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia, especially in the BiH, but also throughout the world, to go to these elections, to apply, to do what the law requires, to vote on their conscience, and I say about some other changes to vote outside of the DKP or, in polling places such as that in Croatia, they may discuss it at some other level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139258	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139259	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for his reply. I am convinced that your explanation will help many voters outside the Republic of Croatia, to exercise their electoral right, especially so, it is important to repeat once again, in accordance with Article. Article 30(2) The law on the register of voters, voters who have been issued a Croatian ID card, with data on residence outside the Republic of Croatia, are not subject to active registration, if they naturally vote on the domestic diplomatic consular representation. I note that in this law 2012-2015, the first bile debate was held in the Croatian Parliament and that then, in fact, the Kukurik coalition passed such a law, which makes it difficult for many Croatian citizens to achieve their voting rights. On the other hand, as a representative of the Croatians from the BIH, I welcome the efforts of the Croatian government, therefore, under the leadership of President Plenkovic, who in the last year opened 2 new diplomatic consular offices in Knights and Livn and which will enable many Croatian citizens from the BIH to exercise your electoral right. Furthermore, HDZ is the only party on its list, which in the last fourth place put them on the table, which I am convinced will further encourage Croats from the BiH to go to elections, to vote for the European Parliament, to exercise their Croatian right. Thus, the HDZ also shows its concern for Croats in BiH and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but also for the support of the BiH, on its European path, knowing that the Croats from the BiH, the leaders and holders of European values in the BiH... The EU, which is the interest of both the BiH and the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, I thank you for the question, I am convinced that this answer of yours, helpful to many people, will make it easier for them to exercise their electoral right and for those who have never known how to do so before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139260	14th question, respected representative Suncana Glavak, asks the respected Minister of Demography, Family and Youth and Social Policy, Nadi Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, more and more talk about the problem of domestic violence, so let me make some... According to the Ministry of the Interior, there were 43 murders in 2017, 18 women were killed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 50% were killed by intimate partners, in 2018 there were 22 murders, 8 women, 50% of their intimate partners. Total domestic or family violence, in 2018 10 thousand 272 violations. The perpetrators of 7800 men and 2200 women. I've been interested in the past two years in sensitizing the public, and we've seen this with the rest and initiative to save me, but also with a number of associations, which are working with the ministry, which has been done at the government level, in order to reduce these figures, although it is a trend in decline, however, while any woman has been killed or while we have violence in the family, of any kind, I think we have to be proactive and that we have to protect those most vulnerable groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139262	Minister Nada Murganic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139263	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs for asking. You gave a great introduction, a display, really scary numbers, that talk about this negative phenomenon. Although there has been a long need for systematic... against violence and the prevention of violence against women in the family and generally violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Back in 14 years, significant documents and legal bases were passed, which were... However, this particular government is in line with its programme programme for the term of office of the '16-20. in focus within the objective9 of the protection of the most socially endangered, it has also devoted itself to protecting against violence, i.e., the prevention of violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's really good is that, with all these state resources and resources, the fight against violence has made society, the media and various civic initiatives aware, which have not only the task of warning this negative phenomenon, but through such conversation and awareness and education of the public, so they have a preventive character. On 22.9.2017, on the very national day against violence, the government adopted a national strategy against domestic violence in the period '17-'22. and has adopted a series of measures, which is the 4th strategy, however, we point out, is particularly important because it is in its provisions and guidelines in line with the Council of Europe Convention on the fight and prevention of domestic and female violence and thus presented a more modern, stronger international framework. What I would particularly point out, which is that the Council of Europe Convention was adopted, that an agreement was signed on an international day against violence in 2018 for the establishment of a national team and for the establishment of county teams with the aim of better monitoring all activities, programmes related to this topic, but also that, apart from the horizontal link between the interresor team, there is one vertical one, which is that measures are being carried out through the county teams, but also through the county team, where violence is happening, the possibility and the discussion of concrete cases. This ministry has long-standing co-operation with civil organisations, with shelters and autonomous houses that provide victims with funding, but also through other forms of cooperation that has been significantly strengthened in the government's mandate, has been strengthened by funding, by opening up the possibility of using EU funds. What we're trying to do now, here, is in the final phase, his counseling, namely, the 21st is over, but we're trying to strengthen the number of shelters in those counties where they're not there. Also, provide a 24-hour SOS phone line to help victims even though we already have 7 SOS phones, of which, one is 24 hours in seven days, and they are in the jurisdiction of the associations, but there is a phone at the Ministry of Justice at an award for assistance to victims and witnesses in protection against violence and certainly is one of the really now priority tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139264	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Sun Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139265	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a good thing the protocol went through a public consultation, we expect its application. However, what is good in this protocol, this inter-resor connection. What we expect as representatives and as a public, it is that all the counties that do not have, as you yourself said, form their centers as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. However, what the whole public must know and must not turn their heads when we see the problem, not only when we look at this problem on the headlines of daily newspapers or weeks, when the problem happens, but to act preventively. Not only in the occasion of some reminders of the tragic moments of violence that have taken place, but that we keep in mind every day that violence does not occur elsewhere, that it is here, beside us and that we must not ignore it at all. Of course, we, as representatives of HS, will follow the implementation of the protocol and warn, of course, if some measures are not implemented, and also, we expect them from the level of the county to do their part of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139266	The 15th question will be asked by a respected representative, Stjepan Curaj Minister of Management, the respected Lovri Kuštević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139267	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister. In the last session, during the 2 reading of the Law on Civil Servants, I made a proposal that would repeat, apostrophe, this time, namely, employment in the establishment of a working relationship in the state, but I would say more widely, in public services. In fact, we are always aware of the negative perceptions of the public, the citizens, sometimes even for a reason, that there is always some employment on some key that may not be the most objective. Maybe it's a relationship, maybe it's a party or something. I want to bring one law here for ever to end and my proposal has just gone in that sense that we are not actually inventing hot water but rather doing what is already done, let's say, for example, by the EU Commission. That the external agency conducts tests, evaluations, a unique ranking list is made from which these people who have passed these tests on a particular contest, if necessary. What's that gonna bring? It will remove the maximum possible doubt, put more objectivity over rankings and allow the boroughs to be the highest quality always or at least in the greater advantage of employment. So the goal not to, must be, not to fill a particular job, but to draw up a list of successful candidates, for potential employment when it is, or when the need arises. This increases the transparency of overall testing, employment, of course, and thus, with certain criteria, obtains perhaps a higher quality and greater perspective for our young people who may be leaving as a result of that and such reasons. You said during that reading that it was not the subject of this law but that it would be considered in the creation of a single Law on Officials and Landowners, so I'm curious at what stage, whether you will do it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139268	The reply of the respected Minister Lovra Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139269	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Mr. Representative, thank you for asking. Yes, here it is, these changes to the laws that were recently in the parliamentary procedure were, I would say hasty to allow some of the employment needed to organise the EU presidency, to implement some EU projects, to introduce, I would say, the digital laying of the state expert exam, to no longer take place in Zagreb, that the whole of Croatia is coming to Zagreb, which is about 6.5 thousand employees a year, but to be laid down for the start, Split, Osijek, Rijeka, Zagreb, and later we will see that this is extended in one better and better way, etc., etc. Why didn't we put that in this law? Therefore, it is clear that there is a need for better management of human potential within the state and public service in general, and that of course is one of the important segments, namely employment. The Ministry of Administration is preparing the Law on Civil Servants, which will unite civil servants and local and regional self-government, and then we think that this is the time to work through this law in a better way. As for those remarks concerning the maybe classification of universities, time of study, etc., we have all agreed and I hope it is not quite appropriate at this point to introduce so that we do not say we put some in a more favourable position of candidates than others. As for this system of rewarding salaries, promotions in the service, here is the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, preparing a new Law on Payments in the State Service, and I expect that it will be completed in here for the next few months, after which the Ministry of Administration will draft two regulations, the Regulation on the Name and Classification of Jobs and the Assessment Regulation, where this work effect, the evaluation will make it much better, better and where the results will also have an impact on pay. However, I am using the opportunity here to get to know you that the Ministry of Administration is preparing a major project of HRM Human Resources Management, so a project worth more than 200 million kuna is co-financed with 85% of European funds just thanks to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System where we want to establish a single, harmonised system of human resources management in public administration. Therefore, all from entering the public administration, monitoring work, work results, progress, exit from the public administration, transfer of knowledge from older colleagues to younger ones, transfer of knowledge when leaving the state service, etc. This project will create an admission plan on a unique digital platform, facilitate, control the employment process, then manage the work, efficiency of employees and subsistence, management and development of careers, management of successions, transfer knowledge etc., etc. This project is under contract, its duration is 24 months and we expect, not to expect, but certainly it will provide the right basis for making a series of legal solutions in order to introduce it into the system of public administration and public administration, introduce a good way of entering the service, monitoring, rewarding officials, leaving the service, leaving the service and transferring its knowledge to new employees. Here, I'm glad you're interested in this subject, I'm glad you're encouraging this important question, not all employees are neither good nor bad, I'd say we have average civil servants, and here's hoping that through this law that the Ministry of Labour is doing, through these projects, we'll find ways to make good employees even better, and we'll turn bad employees into good employees. Here, thank you, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139270	Thank you. Dear Representative Stephen Curaj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139271	I thank Mr. Vice President, respected Minister Kuščević, I can say that I am satisfied with your response, especially with this announcement about unification and to include the local self-government and regional self-government part, especially around this entire system, so the reception is only part of what you have well detected, of course it is important and only rewarding and advancement of already existing officials, all of which will in fact lead to increasing the efficiency and economics of the work of the state service as a service to citizens, as it really does, is that I only hope that you will accept this proposal that, when testing or accepting that this would simply be entrusted to an external agency, an agency for external evaluation and education, as it exists here and also performs the state prom, because on these principles, I think that this transparency and independence would ensure that one unique competition and, of course, I am truly, in fact, more than possible, more than ever. I think it's probably a good way to go and it's something that may have been done years ago, but it doesn't mean that we don't have to go and do it one way and do it all the time, and it's really one standard that no one will ever question how someone came in, where someone came in, why, but that's why we're going to raise professionalism, raise economics and introduce transparency, even more transparency in employment, and that's certainly what we all need here to be the goal in the ultimate line that I see the ministry is already doing. That's why I'm satisfied with the answer, and all I think is that this part of it needs to be even closer to being arranged in a way that really trusts the external agency that does it very well, and we all know how to conduct the state's graduation and what it means to be both the secrecy and credibility of these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139272	The 16th question will be asked by the respected representative Marijana Balic, the respected minister of regional development and EU funds, Gabrieli Zalac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139273	Thank you very much, Vice-President, respected European Commission Ministers, proposed to modernise cohesion policy, the EU's main investment policy and one of the most correct expressions of European solidarity at the end of July of last year for the EU's next long-term plan from 2021 to 2027. So my question is, will the new cohesion policy proposal for that budgetary period simplify the rules to make access to EU funds as simple as possible and can you also tell us the percentage of the use of European funds so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139274	The reply of the respected Minister Gabriele Žalac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139275	Thank you, well-respected MPs, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, I am pleased that you have asked that question. When we talk about simplifying the use of European funds in the next financial period, it is certainly something that is already, in some way, indicative and written in the proposal for a multiannual financial framework. We had in early March in Dubrovnik a conference called Friends of Cohesion precisely at the level of all 28 member states set this subject of simplified procedures in fact high in some way given the importance of better absorption of the use of funds and the arrival of the same funds to end-users. We have already done a lot of things in this financial perspective as it relates to the agreement of European funds, so far we have made available when we talk about this financial perspective of EUR 10.7 billion over 85% through competitions, which means that over EUR 9 billion is already out in competitions. When we talk about the agreement, it's 66%, so 7.3 billion, when we talk about the contracted funds, when we talk about payments to end-users, it's j 2.3 billion euros, 21%, and when we talk about certified funds, and that's what our public interests the most, 17%, so 1.9 billion euros. However, what this House must know, and the entire Croatian public, in order to eliminate, what is being promoted all the time, which is that we are not good at using European funds, the Republic of Croatia, from joining the EU to today, is 14.4 billion kuna in plus. This means that we are more than good, which means that we are a net recipient of European funds. When we talk about European funds, about 3 operational programmes and rural development programmes, you must know, that according to the N+3 rule, and that means everything that Croatia was assigned for 2014 we should spend, that is, verify by the end of 2017 when we are also talking about 2015 by the end of 2018. And imagine the data, in all three operational programs, and the rural development program, we've verified over 100%. So that means we're on track for what we're saying all the time is extremely successful, and of course the indicators and the results are talking about it. When we talk about simplification, then I should say for sure here 2 words about it today, especially recommendations for the next financial period, and that's focus will be on results, it won't be as safe as it is today, on statements about expenditure, and that means acceptable costs, when all projects go through, when we verify them. Of course, there will always be one imbalance of what is called simplifying procedures and an audit trail of money, when we talk about what we need to sort of take care of. And we have certainly discussed this a lot in the past, but I am convinced that in negotiations on a multi-annual financial framework, especially EU cohesion policy, which in the proposal is 5.6% lower than this financial period, 9.9 billion euros, is in the proposal for the Republic of Croatia, but I see a great possibility of compensation, also cohesion policy, through measures of structural reform of 25 billion euros at EU level. It is only for us to prepare projects as well as good and quality so far, and to bring them to the end users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139276	Thank you, pal Balic's testimony, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139277	I would like to thank the honourable Minister for his reply. And I am convinced that a positive agreement will be reached between the Council of the EU, the Commission and the European Parliament and that there will eventually be a simplification of the implementing rules, as well as the very conditions for the use of European funds. And when it comes to the percentage of European funds used, the figures you have presented are truly cheerful and I am convinced that by the end of the mandate, all the objectives set out will be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139278	Let's ask the question number 17. Representative Sabina Glasovac, asked by Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the Croatian Teachers' Union, has conducted research among teachers, who have assessed the school's implementation of life so far. And they rated the implementation with a three. It made you angry and you said that the unions don't know what research is, even though it's research, were conducted by scientists at Ivo Pil Institute. The attorney general warned you in her 2018 report that you were carrying out partial curricula reform and that you had completely deviated from the strategy, education of science and technology. You told her that she was getting a little better information and that she didn't know how to read. With the ruling of your ministry, i.e. the government, it must pay 14.2 million kuna plus interest, damages to the Varazdin County, because you refused to pay your commitments for the educational facilities being built in that county. Next you decided to round schools, which means in translation you'd be shutting down, somewhere at 61 schools, in rural areas and in islands. Your reform has actually come down to the pillisation of Croatia, in which the tablets you obtained at the beginning of the year, shoot their screens, the cost of repairs must be borne by parents. And now you have your reform of Croatia's pillization, down to that, that not every student, the first-year student, will receive pills, but one tablet will share the four, in which way, you have not explained it yet. My question to you is, do you feel when you hear this news from your ministry as if we live in an absurd and whether it's a little embarrassing for you, because of what you're doing, probably to the best of all, don't just tell us that I'm invisible, jealous, that I don't know how to read, that I'm not informed, try, here's to comment on all these events and chaos that's happening in your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139280	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, of course I won't use these words you're using, you're describing yourself, that's not what I'm doing. But I'll talk about the things you pointed out after all. First of all, why I said that the research carried out by the Croatian teachers' union came at a time when it might have passed to the union. Well, I'll explain right now, because let me, I do, however, when I talk about these topics, talk from the position of a scientist. So research of over 300 participants, conducted in the 10th month. and the questions were how to carry out the experimental implementation of the curricular reform, so one month after the start. And the results were published six months ago. Later. Of course I commented and I think it's my right. Everything that's constructive really needs to be accepted, but this way of working and communicating, I think it deserves an answer and I answered in that sense. On the other hand, the full implementation of the experimental programme is monitored and, in all senses, how experimental implementation should be monitored, there is a commission, agencies, a national centre, all those who need to give the court and carry out research on how qualitatively, so quantitatively doing so and the results are spotlessly published. So I don't think there's any dilemma or problem. And if you want to find out a little bit more about this, please visit the school's website for life.hr. As for the lawyer's answer yes, my answer was that integrity was preserved, that the strategy was monitored but that there was not only one way of thinking, but only one interpretation. I know that there are many who think that reform should be exactly how they imagined it, but the ministry that I am at the head of this reform is doing so that it takes into account different considerations but that modern trends in development of education, educational reforms, mainly in Europe, but we also take into account what is in the world and here we also have the help of the European Commission. Both the European Commission and what we are doing in the education monitor has rated it very positive, our reforms have been called ambitious. And in that sense, here I am also directing you and all those who are interested to follow it a little bit more closely. As far as JPP is concerned, look, it's a very interesting topic. The interesting thing is because when you were in the ministry, you were part of the system that created this problem and we're solving it now. Nor did I conclude that contract, I inherited the problem. What was a commitment to the future, we accepted this, and this government has actually reached the conclusion of this problem for the future, so for the next 20 years, 55% of me think 274 million for the PPP of Varazdin County. So that's something for the future. What's past, it's in court, it's in court, and all of our lawsuits you know is running the DORH. We should know as much as we should know who's bringing the net. We should know who's bringing the net, that it's brought by the government, and we should also read the guidelines before you comment on them. The rounding does not mean abolishing, perhaps in your dictionary but does not mean abolishing and should read what is now in public consultation and I really point you to it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139282	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139283	Thank you very much. You as a scientist should refrain from spitting in the face of teachers who work at school and know best how your project goes. And on the other hand, as a scientist, you shouldn't allow yourself to have an experimental program that entered last year, saying that it's going into all schools, even though the experiment isn't finished and you didn't valorize it, and you're doing it right now, thus canceling yourself as a scientist and scientific approach to projects. Secondly, you say we created a public private partnership problem. No, ma'am. Minister. We, in the absence of funds to finance education facilities in the Republic of Croatia as a ministry, have tried to help those counties that want to invest in educational facilities in their counties through public private partnership projects. And you, when you came to power, refused to pay further, and you made commitments, and that is why a powerful, i.e. a powerless court ruling says that this will cost us 14.2 million. Imagine how much school could be equipped, fix with 14.2 million kuna. And third, I totally agree with you when you say this, when you comment on Mrs. Vidovic, you say there is only one way of thinking. Right, Minister, but you are the one who can't handle a different way of thinking and who you need to learn exactly this lesson that your only opinion is not right and only relevant and that you feel every criticism as an attack on your personality or your vanity. What you do in the ministry is a shame many will correct after you. And don't forget mistakes happen to anyone who works but you work with children and destroy generations of your experiments on them and experiments. Come to your senses and behave if not as a minister then as a scientist and a serious person.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139284	Let's go to question no. The 18th representative, Kreso Beljak, sets him up as Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139285	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I'm glad you came back more than half an hour later, where your party colleagues and their half-trons await you, those tears in their eyes, from all over Croatia came from neighbouring BiH countries, and I don't think it's correct of you to leave them alone and they came here to see you. I see their faces lit up and I think it would be correct when it's currently morning to be there all the time because at one point your right-hand side of the HDZ has fallen off. So the entire right hand side of your right hand was no one but your HDZ left behind. I have a question about your repeated advertising or I don't even know how to call it future Croatian milk exports to China. And you really believe that? Who would have believed that Croatia could produce anything for the Chinese market, anything when we talk about such things, about agricultural products. Croatian dairy has been destroyed to the ground and it is not just you who are responsible for it, but what you are doing, what your Government is doing, is a detailed, thorough destruction of the rest of Croatian dairy. Do you know, Mr Plenkovic, that in Croatia, there are dairy, farms, people who used to produce milk, who bankrupted and collapsed in 2016 and your Minister Tolusic and your Ministry of Agriculture paid them 7.5 million kuna in 2019. Here's an answer to the question do you know about this information?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139286	Answer, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139287	Thank you very much. Representative Beljak, I see you share the interest of Representative Bulj who praised us for having very good talks with the Chinese Prime Minister and his delegation. I assume you're also pleased that the state has created a framework based on which our exporters can export on the basis of a certificate of their products to China. Do you know what a trade exchange is between China and the Republic of Croatia? I don't think you know. It amounts to EUR 1 billion. The Republic of Croatia has a deficit, as has most of the world's countries, with export deficits or imports from China. In this respect, all the agreements we have signed aim to reduce this imbalance in trade. One of the aspects is this memorandum signed by Deputy Prime Minister Tolusic. What our milk producers can do, they can take advantage of that opportunity or they don't have to take advantage of it. I would advise you to talk to our exporters sometimes, so that you can see how much they benefit from EU membership, so that you can see how they use those bilateral contracts that the state makes for them right now to go to other markets, ask them a little. Make time for yourself, I don't know, which political genre of parties you're more involved in, I know that your international secretary comes neatly to meetings of the political assembly of the European People's Party, there registers, there votes, and here you have some statements about that you are no longer part of the European People's Party. I'm actually curious about who your handsome candidate is in these European elections, I'm curious. I think it would be good for us to hear it, if we knew who you're really behind, what political options, you as an alleged HSS essentially want to promote your interests. I think it is here for your colleagues in HS, all of whom you have called, who are representatives of the HDZ, who are part of the European People's Party, who have worked very well with some other heads of the HSS and have felt good about the same political family. You said it was no longer your circle, that you probably have some other circle, so say that people know, even in your membership it's healthy to know because often I go to the Ministry of Agriculture and many of your colleagues at local levels have excellent cooperation with HDZ, have very good cooperation, support the work of the Government, are satisfied with what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing, are satisfied with the overall achievements, have no problem if the budgetary surplus is achieved, have no problem if the Republic of Croatia returns to the level of investment credit rating after it has twice dropped that credit rating at the time of the SDP government and if all indicators in the economic sense go well, if structural reforms are carried out, if these estimates come from the Credit Rating Agency and if they come from example from the European Commission and its experts who are looking at everything we do in detail. I am in this context of your European ambitions because in one step at the beginning of this current hour and you have alluded to HDZ candidates and HDZ list holders who on European topics, I would dare say, they know little more than you do, they have very clearly defined views, they know about them, and they don't know about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139288	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139289	Mr. Plenkovic, I'm very sorry that you're nervous, but I'm really sorry, you're very nervous that, but there's no need for that, and I'm glad that here you're communicating with the members of HSS all over the Republic, and I'm glad that you have very much, and as much as you're worth it, you and your candidates will see it in the next election now in a month and more, then you'll see how happy you are with what you're doing. Let this pat on the shoulder, every day they pat you on the shoulders, and that's how Sanader clapped, you know, so you see where Mr. Sanader is, that's how you'll end up, too, you'll see. You said the HSS was supposed to be a party like this or something. HDZ is not, reportedly Croatian, and has nothing to do with the Croatian party, nor Croatian interests, allegedly a democratic and alleged community. HDZ is not a party to Mr Plenkovic, you have not answered my question, do you know that none of the OPGs in the entire Republic of Croatia can get land, can not buy land unless they have a HDZ membership card. You are from a political, not a party, but a community, and for a long time you have turned into a corrupt, mafia octopus that you are just nominally at the head of, don't think that you rule HDZ, you haven't founded HDZ, you're not the one who won the elections because you were the only candidate, you remember very well, and many of the anti-candidates that aren't presently in HDZ, you or the people around you are trying to convince them not to run for office to become president. And as you became president, so all those who laugh now, look at Mr. Boric laughing, and so he laughed at Sanader and Karamark and Mrs. Kosor, so tomorrow he will laugh at Gordan Jandrokovic or someone who will take over HDZ, and you will not be, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139290	Okay, let's go to the 19th question, representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev asks the question of the Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Ćorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139291	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Vice-President, the Honorable Not Minister and Minister, my question is with the respected Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, Mr Tomislav Ćorić. In the beginning of the month, there was pollution of the Orasnica River, there was fear that there was also this pollution to the Krka River and in this assembly your ministry, the competent institutions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and even us representatives from the region, we were called to allow the health and our children to be threatened, since we allow the polluted water to be drank by all citizens of the Sibenik-Knin County, so my question taken by the competent ministry, the government of the Republic of Croatia to prevent this pollution from happening again and not to repeat such a thing again?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139292	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139293	Thank you very much, first of all, for the question of representatives of Juričev- Martinchev. So you can freely answer those who have called you or who have called you all together that we have taken whatever it takes to respond and that we have responded in time. So, as well as I remember the spilling incident took place on the 5th of this month, the water law inspections in such situations immediately upon the tip of the stand on the ground and this happened also in the case of the Orasnica River. The water inspection ordered the Croatian waters to act immediately and prevent further spread of pollution as it happened, so that 3 dams were set up to guarantee first of all that there would be no spillage or spread of the stain, which happened on the ground. The monitoring of the situation on the ground was in fact detected that the pollution occurred all the way to the first dam, in this context no pollution spread according to the Krka River has occurred. What I want to point out is that also the appropriateness of drinking water has not been compromised at any time, and it is important that our citizens and citizens know the same. Therefore, in the context of this event it should be borne in mind that the causes of this problem are somewhere in me I would say earlier or significantly earlier, this pollution occurred or was caused primarily by the old factory screws Tvik, which is at this point under the control of the company, I apologize to you it should be DIV so d.o.o., bearing in mind the fact that the plan of management of the waste RH 2017. – 2022. a total of 9 black dots detected in the Republic of Croatia were recovered from 3, this black dot or this area is one of the detected black dots. There is also a legal successor in this context of the company DIV d.o.o. A recovery programme should be developed and the resolution procedure finally implemented, of course after approval by the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. What I would certainly like to emphasise is the fact that unless it happens in that case, the Republic of Croatia will implement this resolution, however, of course when it is called a third party's recovery, by which it is naturally charged by a legal follower or by a DIV company for the costs of this pollution. So, to go back to the first part of your question, there is no reason for fear, there was no reason, therefore Croatian water, water law inspection, inspection services acted immediately, they reacted spotlessly and finally the problem was solved immediately. Once again, I stress that a long-term solution should be sought in the recovery we believe that this rehabilitation programme will soon be established and that this resolution will occur in order to permanently eliminate this cause of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139294	Answer, here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139295	Thank you very much, so respected ministers, I think that in this response our citizens could read that even in this case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has acted extremely responsibly, that the safety of our citizens puts in the first place, that it has never been a health-rightness of water that has come into question, and this opportunity would ask that all those who enter, harass our citizens with false information do not so protect the interests of our citizens and the Dalmatian Zagora and the Sibenik-Knin County, but rather by harassing the citizens and harming the tourist image of our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139296	20 questions Pedja Grbin's representative asks the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts Darko Horvato, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139297	I thank the Honorable Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice-President, Vice-President, Minister and Minister, I refer my question to Mr. Horvat, and I am sure Mr. Horvat is without telling him what this question will apply to. It is of course related to the situation in Uljanik and on 3 May, i.e. the plans of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve the situation. As we all know the rescue AIDS for Uljanik and 3 May is a day a year and 3 months ago, while almost all the ships were cancelled, yesterday we read in the media that this last yoke was cancelled for Jan de Nol, Mr Maric said this morning on Croatian Radio that it is still being negotiated and I hope that the optimism Mr Maric showed this morning is founded, however this is not the only problem. Meanwhile, in these years and three months of 4,500 employees, 1,800 went abroad. Both the Uljanik and the 3rd of May were proposed to open a bankruptcy procedure, for the Ulnik hearing was held today in Pazin and the editorial judge set the deadline for the postponement of the procedure until 13 May of this year. It is clear that if an oil account is not unblocked by May 13th, the account of the oil company will open up to bankruptcy. Probably the same thing will happen in May 3rd. Dear Mr. Minister, without politicizing, without transferring responsibility, who is guilty, who is not guilty, there will be times when the situation is resolved, the question is I will repeat it very simply. Did the government have a plan for resolving the situation in Uljanik and May 3rd and what is the plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139298	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139299	Thank you, Your Honor, since I am reluctant to remember some moments and events, but I like to write them down, so in general, on September 13th in Pula, you have called for my criminal responsibility for a very interesting fact. The government then found a completely legal wage payment mechanism for the 7th and 8th months, and since you then claimed that paying workers according to the Penal Code of the Article 250, we favoured the believers, and at that point those creditors were workers, we gave you the honourable parliamentary representatives answer that we were in accordance with Article 4. Official law, i.e. Art. In 209th century 4 of the Executive Act, the wages in question were paid legally neatly, legitimately and in accordance with the positive national rules. Before that, we co-ordinated all this together with the EU Commission, as well as all moves that have been withdrawn or withdrawn over the past year and a half, we coordinate, design and verify together with colleagues from the EU Commission. That's a good point. No more politicizing. I think that it is transparent, credible and clear to the Croatian public who has put the shipyard in Pula and Rijeka in such a situation, whose management decisions and business decisions produced payments up to now 3.2 billion guarantees from Croatian taxpayers and what situation today would be the economy minister, that instead of 3.2 billion paid guarantees can be placed in healthy economic segments that would certainly give such support wind in the back or give a new opportunity. The government, in accordance with all the legal provisions, had a plan and had it. So at this point, we want to save 124m euros of the given state guarantee for advances and loans raised for the construction and completion of the ship under no. 500 aware of the fact that the money has been spent and the ship concerned has not been completed and has not been delivered. If you today believe that participation or responsibility has a government, not management, employees of both shipyards, I think that's what we're radically divergent about. At this point, we are still negotiating with the owner of that ship and we will take that last step before we give up, while there is little hope that Mr. Jan de Zero has confidence that, not now, the shipbuilding management of the shipyard, because there is no more trust in it, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can provide all those assumptions that this number is no longer ending in Pula, but that it ends in some of the neighbouring shipyards, and for the state budget and taxpayers we save. 124 million guarantees issued, including interest rates in question, which raise this burden to 130m euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139300	Thank you. It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139301	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I've asked you a very simple question that you're obviously unable to answer. And the question was, does this government have a plan and what's the plan for Oil and 3? May? Is the plan a restructuring, is the plan a bankruptcy? No, you don't want to answer that. And do you know why? Because the answer to that question would bring you negative points in this election. Instead, you're politicizing. You mentioned my show on September 13th in Pula. Yeah, you just didn't mention what I said back then. First, I told you to be careful not to enter the sphere of criminal responsibility. I also asked you what neither then nor then, and obviously you're not answering now, did you secure salaries for the workers? Because workers haven't been getting paid since. They received 3 minimum wage fees, but neither pay nor pay today receive nor day today when at the Trade Court in Pazin, the judge gives you until May 13th to do something, you are unable to go before Croatian citizens and the Croatian public and tell you what you will do. And do you know why you can't do that? Because you just don't know it. You didn't even know when you became a minister, you didn't know at any stage, you don't know now. You dragged in various investors, dragged in some Ukrainians, now you're bringing in the Chinese, who came here on one late-night phone call. What's next? The Trotter brothers, who will appear here and invest in the Oil. That's what your promises came down to. Now you've had a chance, I haven't politicized in my question, I've asked you a simple question that you could give a simple answer to. And the answer would be, we're going into restructuring, we're going bankrupt, and people would know. They'd know how to set up, they'd know if they'd stay in Pula or if they'd look for their future and happiness somewhere else. But no, you're still just because of your own You're extending your agony to these people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who you care about. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] Shame on you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139302	Let's go to the 21st question. Representative Pero Ćosic, asks the question of Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139303	Thank you, well-respected HS President, Croatian Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I refer my question today to Mr. Čorić, so here, dear ministers, we know that significant funding is available in the Republic of Croatia from programme development in 2014/20. in the framework of the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion for Water Economy Projects. I am interested in the situation of withdrawing funds for projects to improve public water supply and disposal systems, which are implemented through agglomeration projects, or how much use of available resources is being made and how agglomeration projects are under way, or how much funding has been agreed so far and what is their realisation. I am particularly interested in the situation of agglomeration or the development of water utility infrastructure, ship, two, whose assessment of the value is about 400 million kuna, and within that project is a good part of the town of Slavonski Broda, 4 around the municipality of Brodi Stupnik, Sibinj,... and Andrijacs, here, have been involved in the public affairs of citizens and the city of Slavonski Brod and these municipalities, why the implementation of this project has not begun, because according to the claims responsible for the implementation and preparation of this project at local level, the project was to be completed and realised in June 2016, and the completion of this project was to happen, here, at the end of 2018, obviously this did not happen, and therefore, on behalf of the citizens, Slavonski Brod and surrounding municipalities, why this did not happen or at what stage of preparedness is indeed the project that is responsible for such a situation or whether this project will be realised in this period of 2014, 2020, given the resources available at that location. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139304	The response of the respected Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Tomislav Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139305	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Thank you, Mr. Cossic, for your question. Therefore, as regards the state of absorption of funds in the water utility sector in the Republic of Croatia, I will only remind myself that the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion provides for a billion and 54 million kuna of European funds to finance water utility projects. At present, projects in 38 projects totalling 14.4 billion kuna have been approved in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Of these 14.4 billion kunas of approved projects, the value of the funds that will be withdrawn from the EU is 8.1 billion kuna, and in this context we can say that the agreement that is currently at 75%, I would say, above the average of the Republic of Croatia as regards the overall operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. As far as other projects are concerned, we are in the application phase of 17 agreed-value projects, i.e. estimated 6.9 billion kuna and 4.9 billion kunas of European funds, respectively, would be withdrawn and finally included in the third group of projects where so-called projects were created. The field assessment is 7 projects, these 7 projects are worth around 2.5 billion kuna in the implementation and 1.8 billion kuna of European funds, respectively. The overall implementation of all these projects would ultimately take about 186% of allocation from the European Funds or from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, and that is why, in this phase, in talks with Minister Žalac and colleagues from regional development, we are heading towards increasing the location or allow to negotiate a slightly higher level of projects. You mentioned Project Ship 2, he's unfortunately not in any of these three groups. So neither in a group of approved projects nor in a group of projects where an application is expected, nor in a group of projects where the so-called project was carried out. Field assessment. A clear and unequivocal answer to why it is so is because this project is not prepared. In particular, both citizens and finally and the public from your county, and I suppose that's why you asked that part of the question, this question should primarily be referred to the leaders of the local self-government unit, or the water pipeline, which is the beneficiary of potential funds. In fact, it is necessary to simply meet a whole series of criteria in order for a project to finally get approval and move on, which assumes a sufficient number of building permits on the project and 50%, at this point the Ship 2 project does not have 50% of the 27 permits it holds. Neither has surveillance nor project management been agreed, and this project also does not have a passing assessment or as far as I know, as far as I know, of Jasper. So, I hope that in the next period this project, as well as other projects that are in something, I would say in a weaker phase of preparation, will find its place under the sun and be prepared and however, their preparation depends first and foremost on the user, in this particular case it is the waterworks Slavonski Brod. As far as the overall operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, as I said, the agreed funds at this point delight us, the realization on the ground, given the level of payment, is weaker, it is according to the latest data we had at 6.5%. However, I will remind you of the fact that all these projects should be completed by the end of 2023, that they are extremely long-term projects whose preparation of documentation and realization takes years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139306	Obviously, here you go, fellow Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139307	Thank you, Minister, for your response it is clear that in the framework of the 2014 operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, 2020 EU approved significant projects and here, as you have said, you have agreed a little more than 100% of the resources available at this allocation, I think that it is commendable for the preparation and negotiation of these projects with municipal enterprises, but this is only the first act before the implementation of these projects, and I hope that here are all the problems that investors face, that they will succeed and that these projects will be completed within the agreed deadline, and I think that here from my personal view, I should say one remark that I have noticed that certain municipal companies are not up to that job and here we have big problems and in preparing these projects, so I think that in the next operational period 2020, 2027, I should consider that I have noticed that the country's been able to be able to be able to take care of some of the projects and to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to carry out of this kind of business in the way. I think here, Mr. Minister, to make additional efforts to invite everyone responsible, who is in charge of the implementation and preparation of this project, so that this project can be prepared as quickly as possible so that it may enter into some expansion of allotment and in this operational period since 2014, 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139308	Thank you. Now MP Sonja Cikotic will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139309	Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, I have a question for you. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs launched a tender for 150 young people a month ago seeking qualifications, high professional qualifications and knowledge of several foreign languages, also seeking 6 months of intensive work with an appropriate fee, an appropriate fee of 100 kuna per month. This is what you asked for intensive work, 6 months of young people who should serve as liaison officers during the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. At the same time, this government predicted 4.2 million kuna for new cars. At the same time, you provided half a billion kuna for the total, for the presidency of the Croatian Council of the EU. Taking into account these figures that I have mentioned, how important it is for you to impress your friends, officials from Brussels, and how important it is for you to keep young people in Croatia, while you are already implementing such a policy? Are you even aware that the Youth Council strongly condemned this way of competition and strongly condemned and actually said that the only way to keep young people in line is to start to appreciate them? And young people leave Croatia, leave home because here they say that their biggest problem is that they represent cheap labour or poorly paid power and you have shown it by this contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139310	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139311	Thank you very much. Representative Cikotic, you know when I started working at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, my salary was 1300 kuna per month, 1300 kuna per month. And that's when I knew four languages as well as I do today. I am telling you this because the work of liaison officers or popular Lyon-zones is a handsome opportunity for someone who is young, who wants to gain one experience that there is no way that they will get it for the next few years because Croatia will chair next time the EU Council for a very large number of years, and those who are young and fresh today or in college or on the other will certainly not be focused on that kind of work. This is a common thing, other countries do, all countries that chair the EU Council and try to attract young people. You have three models. It's one thing to tell young people who've just started in the ministry that they're Lyon-zones, and I've been doing it myself, it hasn't been hard for me. The second is to hire some kind of agency, so they'll give you beautiful young people, women, men, to be practically hostels, to be all dressed up nicely, to all look almost the same, that's what France did in 2008, they all looked identical. Or ask young people if they want to make a contribution. Our Presidency of the EU Council will be very successful, it will be referenced, it will be memorable, it will be very good as was this summit with China, it will be as good as our chairmanship of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, it will be very good, because we have revitalised the Central European Initiative, all this has happened in the last year. In the last year of our government. Therefore, both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs are in the immediate circle with their Belgian counterpart for the election of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. We can discuss the reputation in international circles within the EU, the state, the government there. I'll tell you how we're seen by colleagues we communicate with all the time, looking at us well, looking at us as the government that's been in the last 2.5 years, and exactly a few days ago, it's been 2.5 years since this government's term of office, of those 9% when you were engaged in that previous government came to 66% of the contracted funds where 86% of the funds for the competition are scheduled, where in this financial perspective plus 3 years, it's practically all that's available to us, where the added value will be felt in your Slavonia. We had another session of the Slavonia Council the other day, she was in Novi Gradiška, where the mayor of SDP strongly supports what this government is doing for Slavonia, it is good to know the SDPs here and you from MOST, where we have already agreed more than 9 billion kuna projects for Slavonia, where the World Bank is following us in this process, the World Bank is following us in this process, we have an agreement with them on cooperation that sees how to better focus the funds that go to Slavonia. Is this about agriculture, rural development, cohesion and ultimately about young people, about young people, about young people. You have Minister Pavic here, see how much this government has invested in 2.5 years for employment, 4.5 billion kuna. Never has any government in Croatian history invested so much money on employment and this young, middle-aged woman, hard to employ in rural areas of people with disabilities, all three groups. Look at the percentage of unemployed young people we have dropped in this government's mandate compared to earlier. Look at today's percentage of employees. Right, the demographic problem exists, the problem of freedom of movement is there because it's also used for emigration. But that's all this government's dealing with, and the trends... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139312	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139313	Dear Prime Minister, I am dissatisfied with this automatic message of yours, because what you do personally and what this government of yours does is actually one practice that moves people out of their homeland. The young are leaving and the older ones are leaving. They go where they will have a normal life, looking for nothing but a normal life, go where their time, their work and their efforts will be appreciated, where they will be able to contribute to society. And while you're talking about departments, 1300 kuna, so you belong to that golden bride, you've got a suit waiting for you, a suit waiting for you, and are you actually wondering how all the young people will be able to come to this competition for 150 jobs to be liaison officers at all and how they will get to the city of Zagreb and get 100 kuna? So it takes them 6 months of intensive work, 5.6 outfits, business combinations, because you know that there are diplomatic circles and I can't get into jeans, but you don't care, you don't think about it, you're going for half a billion and you've predicted 150 shows per 100 kuna. That's what you gave the young people, that's where you send the message to the young. This is an opportunity for your golden bride to put another cartoon in her résumé to make it easier for her to be in love with Croatian and European institutions. That's for those 150 people. And you've also suggested that you cancel 2% of the contracts for the work in the ministry's budget, but these work contracts won't get young people at the peak of their academic careers, they'll get you elected. This is Croatia to you in the EU, nothing but an elite playground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139314	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Bully, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139315	Thank you very much. President, Prime Minister Plenkovic violated Rules of Procedure in Article 238 because he compared young students who would only work to show themselves. Then Budimir Lonchar exactly named people to work, that you work, and these are the guys who are broke. You've come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work and create your political career. So comparing you and these students is incomparable. You're an example because of your career, just like you, Mr. Jandrokovic. [[Bulj, you have violated the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139316	You've violated the Rules of Procedure and you're being warned. This was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, and please don't do that. It is now up to representative Josko Klisovic to question the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Marija Pejcinovic-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139318	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers and Vice-Presidents of the Government, you have run for Secretary General of the Council of Europe with the support of the Government, a European organisation that is particularly known for promoting human rights, freedom of the media, the rule of law, democracy. So my question is, do you think the Republic of Croatia is being violated by the freedom of the media? Do you think the Republic of Croatia is intimidated by journalists? And as an illustrative example, here is an example of Đurjice Klancir, journalist NET.hr and Croatian police in the newsroom NET.hr to legitimize the journalist. Every police incursion in the newsroom by default is interpreted as the pressure of the authorities on journalists, pressure from the authorities to the newsroom. When we add to that the reaction of other journalists, and what the police union itself has said, that the police in this case have been used for political purposes and for the intimidation of journalists and that the message is very clear which the police sent, and that is to be careful who you write about, be careful what you write about because they might experience the police knocking on your door. It's clear to the police union, it's clear to the press, is that clear to you as the minister of this government and the future possibly Secretary General of the Council of Europe? Do you intend to criticise as secretary-general if you are elected to the Council of Europe for such practices as we have in Croatia and the Croatian Government? Do you intend to criticize others, the governments of other Member States of the Council of Europe, if they are similar to the practices of intimidation of journalists like the one I just told? Thank you very much?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139319	Here's a reply from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139320	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Klisovic, of course you know well because you have been in foreign affairs, which is the institution of the Council of Europe, it is based on three important pillars, it is indeed the rule of law, respect for human rights and therefore freedom, that is also the freedom of the media. You mention quite one concrete example, so Mrs. Klancir, as far as I know, the lady had no objections to police treatment, so as far as I'm concerned, I think the MUP is also very clear,... I think the MUP also made it very clear what he thinks about how he should do his job. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I don't know why you just pulled Mrs. Klancir out, maybe because she was the director of the SDP, I think it might have been more appropriate in this context to mention someone else than the journalist who complained. As for the freedom of the media in Croatia, certain changes are under way when it comes to the legislative framework of media-related laws, and we believe that what is not good at this time will certainly be addressed through these legislative proposals and you will discuss them here in the Croatian Parliament, so always and everywhere. And I think that all reports that come before the Council of Europe show that there is no ideal situation, so this institution may be more relevant today than it has ever been, precisely for the protection of others and media freedoms. Therefore, surely if I am elected to the Council of Europe, I will stand by all 47 Member States to respect the fundamental values on which that institution rests. As for these court cases, which are subject to what the media, or some media people, have protested very loudly recently, there are quite a lot of them, but when you look at the structure, I think Minister Bosnjakovic spoke very clearly of it when you look at the structure, so first of all, in relation to that large number of inadequacies, let us wait for the verdicts to be powerful. You can make a structure that has therefore filed these lawsuits against journalists, why not, should you see, I think there are also human rights of those who have objected but there is, I agree that in politics we should be less sensitive to criticism, or should be subject to criticism because it is our job and we should therefore suffer a little more safely than anyone else. Therefore, there are certain situations where a lawsuit is to go, but there are many when it is necessary to go over and take it as part of a public function in which, of course, the media are criticising and sometimes going to parts that are not fully founded but are part of everything that is. So the second part when you look at how much judgment there really is in criminal matters, either in criminal terms, is quite a small number. Therefore, I cannot agree that the situation in Croatia is so critical of the media, it needs to be worked on to improve, I will personally and in this function while I am here and if I go to the post of Secretary General of the Council of Europe to advocate that as much as possible in all countries, even in the Republic of Croatia, all values that are our constitutional values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139321	Obviously, colleague Klisovic, here you go. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139322	...any Croatian citizen who has ambitions in international organisations unlike your government who didn't. But from what you've told us, it's declarative that you're going to advocate freedom of the media and that you're going to advocate preventing the intimidation of journalists, but not in specific cases, because if it's a specific case, then of course you have to confront yourself according to a certain government, and you'd rather, as far as I understand, listen to the government and accept the explanation that everything was in accordance with the law. There are certain standards, and there are bad laws and that should be taken into account. The message was sent directly or indirectly, in this case the message was very, very recognized and the message was, be careful what you write about, be careful who you write about, the journalist wrote about a senior HDZ official, the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County and who had good connections with the police. Therefore, if you do not think in such cases to advocate and raise your voice, today as Minister, and tomorrow as Secretary General of the Council of Europe, then I do not know in which cases you will be raised. After all, our credibility starts from home and starts from criticism inside the house of those irregularities we disagree with, not when we go somewhere into the international community, then we'll criticize the others. After all, you know, in the term of this government of yours, the Republic of Croatia is by rank lists in the category of freedom of the media, very broken down, and so the reporters without borders say from 58 places to 69, 11 places we slipped down. The World Economic Forum has set us up for the freedom of the media behind BiH, which clearly indicates how the work of this government is perceived in the context of freedom of the media, in the context of the intimidation of journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139323	Now MP Zeljka Josic will ask the Minister of Management Lovri Kuštević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139324	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, I welcome you all, my question has been addressed to Minister Kusčević, at first I will only express my satisfaction with your recent allegations that the state administration will be better and of course will have more efficiency. I fully agree with that statement of yours, but I also believe that our local self-government must do well to achieve this criterion. Namely, local self-government, namely the town of Sisak and its mayor, SDP Mayor Kristina Ikić Baniček does not respect state institutions, violates the law of the Republic of Croatia, specifically the Law on Local Self-Government. Of course, that's where we enter a scary and dangerous area. Here, I'll tell you right now what this is about. In fact, the mayor's SDP opposed the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government decided that it was not enough to assign the city with a million kuna, but decided to increase that amount to 10 million kuna. Of course, she was helped by her coalition partners and MOST councilmen. This is where we recently heard the media break and the freedom of the media. But I'm going to say something else with all this. The presence of HRT journalist and the City Council, in the town of Sisak, is prohibited. According to this particular example that I cited, the Office of the State Administration warned the Sisak authorities that they had broken the law and gave a specific instruction that they had not followed, but they replied very clearly that They have no intention of following the direction given. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm just curious. How Mr. Minister Will Do [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139325	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139326	Thank you very much, President HS. Thank you, ma'am. MPs on the question. Well, first of all, I would like to point out that really this government in this mandate is, in a special way, expressing its concern for the units of local and regional self-government. So here I was, indeed, 3 mandates from the municipality of Nerezisce on the island of Brac, participating in 2 mandates in the work of the County Assembly and I can say that this approach to the units of local and regional self-government did not exist until this government. This also results from the fact that only last year we are over two billion and 100 million kuna is more income tax transferred from the state budget to the budget of units of local and regional self-government, over 350 million kuna, savings interest, number of projects, number of European projects, therefore, one collaboration at an enviable level. And here, all these local and regional self-government leaders have a duty, a legal duty, to act in accordance with the law, to fulfil the obligations that the law requires them, to meet, therefore, those requests of their fellow citizens, entrepreneurs and craftsmen in their territory. Thus, they are bound by the law, morals, and ultimately by the solemn oath they make in the municipal or city council. As for the concrete example, here's the mayor of Sisak, I pulled the data on it, it's true that the decision was made by the City Council, here you say SDP and MOST, I think it is, I don't have the information, but there's no reason to suspect that the Most and SDP voted for such a decision, and the Office of the State Administration is the decision that raised that limit as illegal and directed it to the Ministry of Administration. The Ministry of Administration confirmed that there was a broken law and we did what we and the law had to do, and we sent it to the High Administrative Court, which is the only authority to assess the legality of the general acts of the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government. Here, we expect that the Court of Justice will soon be resolved, and this way I appeal to all mayors and mayors here there are many good, honorable, worthy mayors and mayors in this high house, yet the interest of citizens put ahead of any other, and particularly personal interests, to work in the interest of the citizens who have chosen them on this duty. There are still a number of irregularities in the city of Sisak due to the conduct, illegal conduct of the mayor, internal order, appointment of the head, evaluation, etc., but these are the things that are currently in the process, so we may inform the public when these proceedings are completed. Thank you very much for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139327	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139328	I thank the Minister, I am pleased that you have referred to this other, other illegal actions that occur in the city of Sisak, of course that we as citizens are not satisfied with this and that is a very bad message to all the citizens of Sisak. Because we as politicians and as officials are actually here to be an example of them, to have other citizens choose us and we are responsible for these citizens. And that's why one of these decisions by the mayor and city council of such a big city really doesn't go to class no matter what kind of party colors we belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139329	It is now up to MP Ranko Ostojic, who is asking the question of Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139330	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers, my question concerns meeting the requirements for technical evaluation for Schengen. On 1 July 2013, Croatia became a full member of the Schengen acquis and began to apply all its provisions other than the free movement of people on the border. Since that time it has been a long time, 2 years after that, a request has been made, or a statement of the readiness of the Republic of Croatia, that we are able to accept the evaluation, the established Schengen Action Plan, as well as the plan for informing border crossings, has included several competent authorities, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, internal affairs, but it is crucial, of course, the MUP. So I ask when will the conditions for technical evaluation be met? In fact, the pre-evaluation was in 2014, after which it first started in 2016, and this is what I am telling you to remind you of the time limits when someone can even apply for technical evaluation, and that means 2 years from accession only then can you do it. Look at the year and when the evaluation was made as well as the European Council had to make a decision to change the evaluation rules and thus we entered into a situation so that we could start the evaluation. What is true at this time the public does not know when the evaluation or technical preconditions will be met, and that is then the prerequisite that Croatia can enter the EU, pardon the Schengen area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139331	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139332	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, it is true that the evaluation is important when we talk about meeting the technical conditions and it is true that it started after your mandate ended, it is not quite true that the preparations could not be done because they were all doing so. I will tell you my first meeting and my colleagues to the leaders of the European Commission literally, I can show you that they have not seen a country that is more inert when it comes to the preparation and withdrawal of European funds related to the whole complex of issues about the border or entry into Schengen. A brief answer to the question, 8 is the area, all the evaluations were made in this mandate or action plans and monitoring tables welcomed us about a year and a half ago, 270 of which we consider to have fulfilled all of them. At this point, the European Commission has confirmed its completion, technical readiness in 5 areas, 3 have remained, we have made action plans for these areas and we believe that Croatia will receive confirmation in the term of this Commission that it has met the technical requirements, because the European Commission has started working on the final report. The work on the final report shall be done only after certain conditions have been met. You did bring a statement of preparedness for evaluation, and that's where the story stopped. What we can't be satisfied with is that in that 120 million-dollar Schengen package negotiated by the government in which I was a defence minister, 30 million were left, so Orepic had to ask for an extension in order to use those funds until 2017, but what we are talking about overall equipment is that he missed, I don't know how else to call 85 million euros that no one in that mandate saw exist and that they were meant for the Croatian police. And since we had a deadline by 2020, we really made a huge effort, we used all these funds, when they saw that it was going well, they gave us an additional EUR 30 million, so we will only spend a year and a half on funds that the previous government did not recognise to equip the border and the Croatian police for about a billion kuna. If we had started doing this right away, and there were no obstacles so far, we might have equipped the Croatian police with 2 billion kuna, but here we are learning, all together, I am glad that the representatives are turning to Europe, the EU, to run, and they will probably learn something there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139333	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139334	Dear Minister, I think you can inform Mrs. Andreja Metelko Zgombic about what was done during the government you mentioned. In fact, I prefer to talk about facts, about 120 million euros... The fund, 91%, finished the story at the time and in the term of Milanovic's government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, the HDZ comes to power to the government. So if you've been critical, then I guess you've been sending it to yourself. I've been telling you nicely and I've been talking about facts, 97% is exploitation, and as far as the other 30 million are concerned, it's not from that fund at all... The fund is a temporary instrument, these are other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You need to learn a little. As far as the rest of the story is concerned, it is not a question of whether I am satisfied or not, but when you in the House here answer, that from 8 areas, 5 we have satisfied, 3 we are not, and that the European Commission, in this composition, is going to make a decision, and it is an honor, that is something that is impossible. This is about the rank of the same paper, which you wrote in the adoption of the law on citizenship among other things, that we will complete the evaluation process, that question that I asked you by the end of last year, is not finished, and it is a prerequisite and this should be a national interest. When we talk about national interest, don't try to find someone else guilty. The same secretary of state was then and now. So, ask around, as far as that goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139335	The 26th question, dear colleague Branko Hrg, asks the Minister of Transport, Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139336	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I welcome you all very much, and I would like to address my question to Minister Butkovic. So, I will testify to what was just said in the answers to the question that no government, or the formation of the Republic of Croatia, has cared more evenly about the development of Croatia, the preservation of life in all parts of Croatia. Somehow I'm telling myself, if this government had come too late if we had too many problems already, if it had been like this before, then today we'd have a lot less problems. Today, infrastructure is being built, evenly across all rural areas, municipalities and cities, has opportunities and opportunities to use European funds, have opportunities to use their own resources, which have come to them by decentralised fiscal policy, these governments, these parliamentary majority. But we have a problem, that our villages, in practice, become islands because of public transportation. Therefore, in the villages, the problem of the older population, which is disabled by public transport and disabled communication to some centres, where they should be. They say Croatian bus public service carriers would be possible, in part, by adopting a regulation on the public transport of passengers in road transport, so my question, Minister, when it can be expected to adopt such a rule. And will the adoption of such a regulation be in the light of the preservation of public bus service, because bus carriers are hiring this section somewhere, which have joined the association, over 4,000 people, and we know what the problem today is with the bus driver's decision, for which there is a great demand, so there are additional... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139337	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Hrg, I thank you for your question and regarding the concrete answer, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure proposed last year, and the Croatian Parliament proposed, i.e., the government proposed on a proposal for the ministry, the road traffic law, where we took care of the fact that certain measures should be taken to ensure that in all areas of the Republic of Croatia, mainly in those where there are fewer and fewer residents, public line transport of passengers is carried out. The Law on road transport, which was adopted last year, stipulates that the county liner transport of passengers will be performed as a public service, on the basis of a contract, which will determine whether the mayors, counties and carriers are interested in such a type of service. Now the competent authorities, since the deadline, beginning of next year, is 1.1.2020, the competent authorities of the body, county, determine the network of lines, watch what these needs are, etc. and will, in principle, go into the conclusion of such contracts. Carriers will be taken into account, of course, that the existing form of lines that are now in force will be satisfied in this new model of public service, for the reason that there will be no reduction in the number of lines, suspension of the number of lines etc. With the regulation you're talking about, he's in preparation now, he's going to have a public debate. Otherwise, 8 regulations came out of this law, 7 we've got, we've got that one left, and we're going to go to public consultation for a month on the adoption of that rulebook. But what's also important to point out is that in this same law, we have foreseen the possibility of a peaceful transport. We introduced this for the first time, as one option, that whether, it is a form of public transport, that a private car or van can be done by pointy, by county or a specific city and the municipality to carry out organised public transport of passengers and in some areas it has already resuscitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139339	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139340	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I believe that with this answer, that the rule will go into procedure, Croatian bus public service carriers will be satisfied. They founded their own association, a short time ago, I'm going to ask you, that here in this time, until, the consultation begins on the rulebook, that you find time and make a meeting with them, so that we can get a better look at the problem and find the best possible solution. Some solutions have been found in neighbouring countries, Slovenia reportedly solved this problem quite well and they have the same problem of moving out of rural areas, as Croatia has, as well, which has most EU countries, especially the countries that have entered which are new members and in order to act as a solution, to simply preserve these lines, to preserve these small businesses, to preserve these jobs, because on the one hand, we have problems, that public lines must be abolished, because they do not have the driver, because they do not have enough resources to maintain them, and on the other hand, in these places we have semi-empty buses driving school children. Perhaps there is a solution, to sit at the table and to find, with the same means, practically or only with a little extra in cooperation and countries and local and regional self-government, to find a solution to preserve these lines and to have people living in those areas have this minimal civilizational possibility, to be able to move, to be able to be available to them what they need to be to do their daily jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139341	Now the 27th question, Representative Bozo Petrov, is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139342	Dear Prime Minister, I think that the citizens of Croatia, quite unpleasantly, surprised the news, after the city of Split lost a slow weight of 150 million kuna. That the same city is today ahead of the performance, the blocking of accounts and all, ahead of the tourist season. Nothing is a better situation, as far as we've seen with the city of Rijeka, which has a budget deficit, I mean 277 million kuna. Next year should be the capital of culture. We can also testify that there is a budget deficit of billions and 400 million kuna in the City of Zagreb. By making your coalition partner, Milan Bandic, your area through the media, if Bandic is in trouble, then Plenkovic is in trouble. What I'm interested in, which is my question, until when will the Croatian citizens pay, negligence, incompetence, non-care of local sheriffs and non-functioning, both state and local authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139343	Answer, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139344	Thank you very much, Representative Petrov, for these specific topics, therefore, for Split, Rijeka and Zagreb. First, if there is any topic, which this government has taken in full, to be a kind of lay motive for working throughout the mandate, then it is a partnership with units of local and regional self-government. We first established a dialogue with the counties, cities and municipalities, which never existed before, at the time of any government in the last 26 years since the country's regional structure existed. Every six months. and all that is strategically important, in terms of legal acts, in terms of budgets, we discuss with the mayors, with the president of the association, the cities, it is still, with great experience of the Mayor of Rijeka, SDP Vojko Obersnel, the president of the Croatian community, the municipality has been from recently and the parliamentary representative, Mr Baricevic, you can ask him, what are these meetings and what is their content. First, we're a government that advocates functional decentralisation. We believe that anything that can be decided closer to the citizens and should be brought down to the level, cities of municipalities or counties. Secondly, to do that, it's important to give these units tools. And that tool is called fiscal decentralisation. By law on the financing of regional and local self-government, we left 2 billion and 100 million kunas in total to the counties, cities and municipalities, new original incomes, which we had never had before. For example, in your Metkovic, since the law came into force, the original revenues have increased by 20 million kuna. I think the mayor, Dalibor Milan, knows very well. As for the projects, if we are doing something, we are really working on reducing inequality in different parts of Croatia, no matter what option, where in power. That doesn't matter in this government at all. For example, as far as Minister Maric has activated state property in all counties, there is no discrimination. I even think the Istrian County, most concrete contracts had. Take a look at what Minister Žalac is doing in terms of European funds and regional development, when it comes to equality. The dispute that is, which refers to so-called. TTS in Split is a sport that has nothing to do with the current mayor, it dates back to some earlier times from someone's earlier decisions, how this process was governed in a legal sense I don't know, nor is it up to me as Prime Minister to get into those details. What is coming is two options, the first is to use an extraordinary legal remedy, which is an audit, to try to revise that verdict, and the second is to eventually go into a deal with the other side. Which and how will be decided by the mayor or city council of the city of Split is on them. When it comes to Rijeka, we have recently found a solution for more than 50 million kunas, the different obligations they had towards the state, to disburse them, to make them more ready and able and absorb European funds and prepare for the important role that Rijeka has as European Capital of Culture, in 2020, which indicates with our chairmanship of the EU Council, and in this respect, the Croatian Government meets all its obligations and those financial ones, and this can be confirmed by Mayor Obersnel. When it comes to the City of Zagreb, there have already been speeches today, about the rotor, 273 million kunas of European funds, 50 million kunas of government, one of the examples of the City of Zagreb... working in partnership for the benefit of all Zagreb and Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139345	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139346	Dear Prime Minister, when you mention fiscal tools and decentralisation, then you must also tell the citizens that they will pay all the forgiveness that you've shared around them because it's obviously not enough just decentralised funds in terms of two billion kunas, but also those pardons that you've given to cities of 30, 40 million kuna and that won't pay those citizens, they'll pay absolutely all the citizens in the Republic because when you forgive someone else, someone else will be in charge, but unfortunately it won't come out of your pocket, and when I asked you a question, I asked you for an individual problem, but I was actually talking about the functioning of the entire system, and apparently the whole system is down to one man who decides. In my view, it is the right of the prime minister to create a framework in which both local self-governments and economies and state institutions will function independently of politics, and I do not see that that is the case. I think that you've had your part as some first firefighter in the country who jumps from fire to fire to put it out, it's just that the problem is that these fires are obviously too much, that it already looks like a fire-steel and you paralyzed the state because when state institutions can't function until they get a moment from one man, that means that the state is stagnating, that the state is failing. And all these affairs that we can witness in recent weeks and months just prove it. Maybe it's fun for you, maybe you're having a fun experience of a big girl and all these SMS listening affairs, but the citizens don't care, the citizens want to live in a country where they'll have a decent salary, dignity, a sense of security, that's what you need to enable them to do, not play great leader and statesman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139347	Let's go to the 28th question representative Emil Daus asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139348	I thank the Honorable President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the president said, I would like to refer the matter to the prime minister. Dear Mr Plenkovic, the IDS has for years been warning of the continued collapse of democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia, which confirms every new report by international organisations. Today I would like to refer to a question that is actually an indicator of the health of every democracy, which shows that our democracy is quite unhealthy, is about freedom of the media. Media freedoms are one of the preconditions of a normal advanced society, as I believe we all strive. Unfortunately, we're miles away from developed European countries, we're in the company of Armenia, Haiti, and denying pressure and media freedom reminds me of some countries in the neighborhood that we shouldn't be a role model at all, and we just heard some neighborhoods have passed us by. We've heard of Mrs. Devereaux. Deputy Prime Minister, what does he think of this, and I ask you, dear Prime Minister, are you satisfied with the state of media freedom in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139349	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139350	Thank you very much, Mr. Daus. As far as freedom of the media in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, I read the comments and reports as you do, and I have to admit by following the Croatian media except for a few absolutely pointless lawsuits that have been initiated from HRT level, and now they're giving up, I don't see which medium in the Republic is not free. Here, tell me, do you think the Jutarnji List is unfree, Evening List, New List, Free Dalmatia, The Voice of Slavonia, Globus, National, 24 Express, RTL Television, New Television, N1 Television, HRT, Radio Stations, whoever in the Republic of Croatia can't write what they want, say what they want, make a contribution about anyone, analyze anyone, criticize anyone, take a stand, participate in polemic shows, I appeal to you that, apart from the principled quotes, I don't know, a reporter without borders or I don't know anyone else who probably base their analyses on those who in this entire media world are feeling a little bit threatened, so then say it's not worth this or that, but give me a concrete from the relevant media where this is the non-freedom and which is under some pressure, I'd like to know it because I'm trying to track down where you're in terms, where you're going to get it. Find me one, here's one of the reporters in HS, who of them, while we're discussing here, has some fence to write a comment one way or another, whether he liked your question or my answer, who gets the focus or not. I have to admit that I don't see that big conspiracy and the theory that someone is controlling media space in the Republic of Croatia, because it's simply not true, and that's why I said a few weeks ago when that topic came into focus that I just don't believe in that thesis that there is no freedom of the media in the Republic of Croatia and no one has convinced me otherwise. It may be that some politicians are very sensitive, extremely sensitive, so they reach out for lawsuits. I think it's not smart and it's not good, and it doesn't occur to me that I use something like that in extreme madness, no matter what I hear, read or see about what any of the independent media, commentators, editors, journalists, can think or write about me as the Prime Minister, for example, all of this can be supported and anyone can endure it if they engage in public life and if they engage in what politics means, which means controversy, which means responsibility, which means receiving criticism, which means dealing with it. I don't see that problem in Croatian society. Surely there are elements that can be better. Here, recently from the European Social Fund, you've been invited to tender for non-profit media, I believe that one part of the non-profit media will report on it, get funds for its projects, the same thing for local media, we can improve everything, there's no system that's perfect, but that the thesis on the inside or outside that there's a problem in the Republic of Croatia for freedom of the media 2019, so it's simply not true, it has nothing to do with the most semi-informed man about what the media in Croatia are like. It's just not true and that's why I don't accept it and that's the arguments I don't accept because it just doesn't stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139351	The answer, the obvious. Excuse me, just a minute. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139352	So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. I can no longer listen to the untruths from the mouth of the Prime Minister. Everybody knows it's Croatia. Under HDZ control, the main analyst on HRT... [[/Intruder: A colleague of the Grmo. A colleague of the Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139353	No, because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you can't listen to someone, it's your problem and go outside if you can't listen. No, no, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, and this is now an experience over what's written in our Rules of Procedure, and I'm not going to let you do that. Because there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. You said he was injured by 238. Because you can't listen to someone. .../ Intruder:... /... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] You can't. You can't. Do not be angry, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Yeah, yeah. No, no, look out. Freedom respects, freedom rests on procedure, laws and responsibilities. It's freedom. It's freedom. Here's your colleague, Daus. [[Intruder: This is your freedom.]] [[Intruder: Communist Party of Yugoslavia, spiritual followers.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139354	Thank you, Mr. President. I also thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister for his reply. I'm satisfied with only one part of where the prime minister himself has indicated that there is room for improvement, yes. We can't exactly close our eyes, though when we're in 60 and that kind of place, when we can't have the kid above, even a little bit above that number, by the freedom of the media, I think there's a lot of space. I think it should be less shriveled, as it expresses that attitude towards a modern, modern Europe, it will be long, tiring and difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139355	It is now up to representative Marija Alfirev, who is asking the question of the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Nadi Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139356	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister. Ministers and ministers. Ma'am. Minister Murganic. 20 days ago, there was a day of consciousness, a World Day of Consciousness about autism. It is actually an opportunity for all those who have something to say about it, so all relevant actors can talk about how Croatia solves the problem, that is how it copes with the systemic problem and solves the problems of people with autism. Any children, any adults. This is the day when we had the opportunity to hear very clearly the views, the reasoned attitudes of parents of people with autism who expressed what they thought and said very clearly, expressed their dissatisfaction. Likewise, the government had opportunities to make it very clear at that time what it seemed and how it was meant to solve it. What I've seen, in fact, is that those days are the only days that have come out on your official website where you say there are 25 thousand, almost 25 thousand people with autism in Croatia. And considering all the families, it's certainly a large number, and you said you'd be spreading services in the community. For me, it's a particular question right now, about this, because adults aren't solved the problem. When, have you agreed with Minister Divjak specific dates, when the separation of the Centre for Autism Zagreb will be resolved to the part of education [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And part of the social... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139357	My colleague Alfirev. Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139358	Thank you, Your Honor. With representatives of parents or associations of children and adults, we do have continuous contacts and are almost in all our working groups and are members of the Government Committee for Persons with Disabilities. Just before the day of the autism day, we had a working meeting to analyze the results achieved. What you are certainly interested in, is that in 2015 an agreement was signed between the Ministry, then social policy and youth, the Ministry of Science and Education, together with the founders and representatives of the cities of Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, and how care and care will be continued, and above all the education and education of children's cars for autistic spectrum. We are proud and we were just on March at the opening of the Centre for Rehabilitation in Osijek where there is an exceptional quality facility, but also with an extremely high quality and program covered education and education of children and young people on the one hand. On the other hand, care for those who have turned 21, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, with the aim of providing them with different forms of services of advisory, recreational, working occupation, various forms of psychological assistance through and through the centre, and in cooperation with the centres for providing services in the community, cover children and adults from the area of Osijek-Baranja County. Zagreb has branches in Rijeka and Split. Talks with Split were whether it would be an independent centre, so far prevention and working with autism sufferers is working through our Juraj Bonaci facility, and Rijeka will also have a covered rehabilitation program of this population through the Rijeka Rehabilitation Centre at the Queen's Ostró branch. So here we are fully interested in what is also important for us to connect with these centres and diagnostic centres according to the national strategy for the equalisation of persons with disability, and with the financing and co-financing of UNICEF programmes in Osijek in the Clinical Centre Osijek we have ensured early diagnostics that we associate with work intervention and is planned to do so with other clinical centres Zagreb, Split and Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139359	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139360	Dear Minister, I don't know if you're actually speaking or avoiding the answer knowingly or unconsciously, you really haven't answered me specifically. Did you agree with the Ministry or Minister Divjak to the current Minister of Education specifically when to go into the separation of the Centre for Autism Zagreb, because there users of 40 years are included in basic education programmes. The process was launched in 2015, the task force started, but 2.5 years you did nothing on this issue obviously. From your answer it's visible and that's what worries me not, it's not a problem in me, whether I'm satisfied with this answer, parents and people at 40, 50 or 60 who still go to the center for autism for 4 hours at the elementary school which in the morning, which is the afternoon. So you haven't solved it yet. What's also worrying you're not, so you said one more thing that's not true. There is no branch in Split, they are now independent centres, they are independent centres, so since 1.1.2018 they function as independent centres. One more thing that's worrying, I also got one answer from the prime minister, and unfortunately it's really just a mere phrase, unfortunately a mere phrase behind which it doesn't stand, so I don't think it's anything. This is about an early intervention management centre because without it for two and a half years you haven't even set up a lawyer's enquiries for people with disabilities Management centre for early intervention, and thus not all that is important for people with autism or children [[Intruder: Thank you.]] with autism. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139361	Let's go to 30 questions, MP Martin Baricevic asks him the Minister of State Property Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139362	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, has been over a year since the adoption of the new Property Management Act, so we live in a time when the need for stronger decentralisation has been constantly spoken since the Croatian state began, and all governments and all ministers have repeated this, but I must say I feel adequate to talk about it because I am the municipal head of the municipality and because I am the president of the community, that this government has gone through gradual decentralisation. There have been decentralised commitments so far, but no funds followed. Dear Mr. Minister means the new law has been passed, or what are the results of that law, how much has the local self-government accelerated the process of obtaining building permits, solving all those daily problems that are necessary for a self-government to function and what do you expect from, from the implementation of this law in the future, and might there be room for stronger decentralisation through this law or some similar in your portfolio? I'll remind you that some governments used to charge local self-government to build cemeteries, land, firehouses, not to charge but couldn't come to a simple solution for 10 years and Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139363	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139364	Dear Representative Baricevic, thank you for asking, so by establishing the ministry, we have found 10 thousand items and requests, among them more than 2,000 demands from local self-government units that no one has answered for years, let alone that something would be realised in relation to local self-government units. The observed condition was confusion, one anarchy depravity, kidnapping and unlawful use. For example, it only works on more than 10,000 real estates the Republic of Croatia had completed only 78 lease contracts and not in the competition. If anything had to be changed there at once, then it was necessary to practice this devastating practice in relation to the status of state property and to the units of local and regional self-government. And we approached the emergency amendments to two laws, the Law on State Property Management and the Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Space, which the Government adopted first at 6 months last year, and the second last year, 23.12. This resulted in sudden changes as the law allowed donations and only donations to local and regional self-government units. No one else, just a local self-government unit. And that possibility of donation has led to the ministry making more than 550 decisions so far in favour of local self-government units worth more than a billion kuna. If we add to this another option that provides for the Code of Tabular documents, based on which, what you have listed, cemeteries, morgues, social homes, for which you have previously paid, is now transferred directly ex-legations owned by units of local self-government, then the data is that more than a billion and a half kuna is transferred into property, owned by units of local and regional self-government. In doing so, the ministry announced 46 tenders by activating 900 properties. There were 2300 bidders involved in these competitions. There wasn't a single complaint in the contest, not one complaint, just because no one... can't affect the competition process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we made a total of 2700 decisions that activated about 2 billion kunas of real estate value, which generated investments greater than 7 billion kuna. Of course, fiscal decentralisation and the activation of state property contributed most to the larger revenues of the budget units of local and regional self-government, not to mention other examples, here, as the Prime Minister said earlier, as we and the city of Rijeka signed an agreement on settlement of debts that have not been settled for years, is now the second stage in preparation and thus we will close the debt of some of the 75 million kuna that has not been settled for 15 years. And our cooperation is primarily focused on the activation of state property in the area of cities and municipalities because we know that abandoned property does not bear fruit or gives life, and Croatia needs both. However, I must point out here that despite our good cooperation with all of us, some municipalities and cities do not return in the same way. So they change spatial plans against the interest of the Republic of Croatia and directly to the harm of the Republic of Croatia. And it is not appropriate for cities and municipalities to change building land into several tens of thousands of squares owned by the Republic of Croatia. and re-use into green areas, and turn the green areas into building areas for private persons. [[Thank you, Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139365	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139366	So here, and this example of decentralisation shows how much resources can be freed and how much at the local level can be sparked and be a successful stopper for the development of Croatia as a whole. However, I will say that by the decisions of earlier governments and earlier ministers, the 10th municipality is ahead of the blockade in a way that the judicial decisions at the moment, most often in the first instance, lost their disputes and lost their disputes because they had some real estate at some point. By changing the rules, these properties were taken by the Republic of Croatia, although certain legal relationships were achieved, mostly with private companies, and I think that these problems must be discussed, even if it should be known who did it, etc., while some self-government, as we heard from fellow Petrov, fell into problems with their work or unhappiness. This wasn't the case, so I don't think self-government should hurt you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139367	The 31st question, MP Miro Totgergeli will ask the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts Darko Horvato, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139368	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government. Dear Ministers and Ministers. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Minister Horvat. In recent years, we have often read and heard about innovations, i.e. encouraging innovation and research, and how more significant use of potential in this area will boost the transformation of the Croatian economy towards a high value added-value economy. Innovation is what almost all sectors of the economy will have to rely on if they want to survive in regional European and global markets. It is known that the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft carried out certain tenders for the award of grants from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, precisely to encourage research and innovation. Calls, as I recall, were intended for innovation projects and commercialisation of innovation in entrepreneurship. However, these funds were available to entrepreneurs after they had already had a new idea or service that they wanted to compete with on the market. What I find important is to provide entrepreneurs with support at the very initial stage of the creation of a new product or service, so my question is how does the ministry support entrepreneurs at that early stage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139369	Answer, Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139370	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here, at the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Economy printed one interesting brochure on just 5 sheets of paper, very explicitly explained everything that was to be done in preparation, so that in this year we would be ready for two major competitions, which will be announced by the end of the year in total of around billions and 500 million kuna, but that is only one continuity in what the Ministry of Economy is doing and how it gives opportunity to new young entrepreneurs in their new innovative ideas. In 2018, the government formed the National Innovation Council with its decision on 5 July. The NIV initiative also formed an innovation council for industry, an innovation council for science, higher education and technological development and a national council for human potential development. According to this, the authority of the Ministry of Economy, followed by all those powers that the Ministry of Economy has based on the smart specialization strategy, has also formed 5 so-called 5 so-called. Thematic innovation councils, so today we have a thematic innovation council for health and quality of life, for energy and sustainable environment, for transport and mobility, for the Council for Security and Councils for Food and Bioeconomy. At this moment, in support of these strategic documents that are currently in force, the Ministry of Economy will also develop a national digital economy programme and a national programme for the introduction of artificial intelligence by the end of the year. These are all assumptions and preparations of the Republic of Croatia's real business sector for the new financial period of '21. - '27. with a suggestion from colleagues from the European Commission to be dedicated to new innovative industries. What makes me especially happy so far is the project in 7 iterations and 7 years in a row carried out so-called. POC or Proof of concept through which it revived 276 new start-ups with new ideas and innovative projects. So far, World Bank 7 has followed such steps with 70 million kuna, and the project has launched 105 million kuna investments. In this year, this project will no longer be financed by the World Bank, but we have therefore never provided more funding for 8 iterations of the project from the state budget, so 18.2 million of which will be distributed to consultants who will help us with the validation of the project, and 17 million kuna by the end of this year paid back to new potential start-ups in the space of the Republic of Croatia. Also allow me just one brief sentence, a few days ago together with my colleague, Žalac, we provided 42 million kunas of risk capital for new project ideas or new start-ups in the Republic of Croatia, so that this innovative potential that today is identified through this council at approximately 5.5 billion kuna, so by the end of the year or by the verification of these projects in the coming year, will be accompanied by nearly 2 billion kuna of grants from European Structural Funds, and that is the answer to those unfaithful Tomes still today. They're asking themselves if our membership is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] In the EU, it has brought any benefits. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139371	Here's your representative's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139372	Thank you Minister, you have clearly explained what you have already taken and defined how much funding has been allocated for projects of innovative entrepreneurs' ventures so far, I believe that by means of funds like you yourself said from the budget, but also by means that are provided by EU funds, you will achieve the fundamental objective of which my question has been targeted, which is to finance pre-commercial activities in the initial phase of the development of new products, services and technological processes. Keep up the good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139373	32 questions from Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj asks Health Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139374	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues, would ask Minister Kujundzic a question. Dear Mr. Minister, as this government is known, unlike the previous one, we can tell on the daily communication base with the City of Zagreb and with the Zagreb institutions. It is also known that you also have joint projects where these projects are implemented, but in a particular case I am interested in the project means what the government or ministry will do when it begins to save the Immunological Institute and what will be concrete steps in saving the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139375	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139376	Dear Mrs. Lekaj, thank you very much for asking and for encouraging something where happiness is more, in fact without a community, no matter what we change in the assembly or in the ministries, in the city, it would be good to talk more, to cooperate more, and to actually do what is good we try to do together. The project of building a national children's and university hospital is the first project where the government and the City of Zagreb entered together. The nature of things was also normal because the City of Zagreb is the owner of the country and the existing building in Blato, and the Government is, of course, a natural investor and someone who should build, tomorrow manage, manage this hospital, not because of the management, but because of the well-being of all Croatian citizens, or all patients who will sooner or later become all of us. As for the national children's hospital and the university hospital, I said that in one of the previous questions, it is actually in one mature phase where there is a commission from the Government and the City of Zagreb where significant steps have been made and where a tender for the feasibility study is launched, and I believe that this will produce a concrete result. Whether a future child and university hospital will be built in an existing building or in addition to that is something that will say a feasibility study because it is actually difficult to say whether after 40 years it has passed when an existing building is designed it is possible to implement a modern hospital in such an object, or better and more appropriate to do so in a new facility, which in no way should be forgotten that the existing building, if the feasibility study confirms its static validity, cannot be used for commercial purposes, and this translates into that building that we cannot make a Croatian campus or as one colleague from Liverpool said, make it a Croatian Harvard where there could be student homes, medical schools, dental schools, hotels, spas and other facilities that are much easier to implement in an existing building than in a hospital, however, I do not want to prejudge what the feasibility study will say. There is another significant and once very capital facility or firm called the Croatian Immunological Institute, it may be important to mention that in the 1970s the Croatian Immunological Institute sold 25% of the world market in vaccines. The unfortunate scheme of circumstances that happened later was that for several, ten years, the immune system was in deep crisis and the administration in 2015 tried to get out of the crisis in such a way that it was next to d.d. established an institution so that wages could be paid, unfortunately, production has never been launched and now we are on the trail, trying to restart the production of vaccines, the City of Zagreb together with the Government has appointed committees that together try to find solutions, there are serious discussions, analysis, evaluations and attempts to find a good solution, but by now we do not have the right solution to start production tomorrow, but an intense search for a solution is being found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139377	Advocacy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139378	Thank you for your answer. I expect the government to speed up the process and find a solution, and I can only say that the City of Zagreb will give its maximum in solving this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139379	Let's go to question no. 33, MP Ivan Vilibor Sincic asks the question of the Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Ćorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, my question goes to the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, Mr. Coric, regarding the collection of electricity, including fuel. In fact, according to what was published in the National Journal and in the Press, from 1.4, there has been a collection of electricity for the economy and for a lower tariff from 32 June to 44, and then it will be 50, and for a higher of 54 June to 75, and later on to 80, so we are talking about lipes by kwh for energy. We also know that it collects fuel, regularly hears a diesel report, hears a report for gasoline, collects gas, collects electricity for the economy, collects more and more in many cities and municipalities, and waste disposal, because of the bad policies that your portfolio also carries out, but that's not my question today, it's a theme for itself. I'll read to you just for comparison how many directors are in the Republic of Croatia compared to other countries, so let's see where we are. So for the Republic of Croatia for an average apartment of 80m2 per month in EUR 161,00 per month according to analysis. Now, comparison with other countries compared to our 161,00 EUR per month, Denmark 163, Britain 165, Ireland 174, Austria the same, Slovakia 178, Germany 215, and not to mention how much higher wages there are. We can go down and down, Switzerland 159, we 169, they 159, the Czech Republic the same 159, Norway 158, Italy 143, so less than we give on average for directors a month, and the wages twice bigger, three times higher, not to say how much statistics are here for Luxembourg. What I'm saying is that the pressure relative to the home budget, relative to the consumer basket in the Republic of Croatia versus other countries, you want neighbors, you want to go to Europe. You want developed is immeasurable [[Intruder: Thank you]] So I ask you, will there be a gathering? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Household currents of 1.7? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139381	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139382	Dear Mr. Sincic, first of all, I thank you for your question, let me take a brief look at the opening part and your elaborate. So I would first of all ask the question of methodology or your approach to this problem. So, first of all, you didn't say what the directors you listed in the prices that you also elaborated, it's something that could be the subject of debate. However, the price of directing if they mean average gas consumption, for example, electricity consumption, for example water consumption in a household, and here we can first refer to gas or electricity. Definitely, each of those countries depends on whether and to what extent, for example, certain categories are produced in these countries. I will first of all introduce you to the fact that at this time the Republic of Croatia is producing about 20% of domestic oil needs on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I will also introduce you to the fact that at this point in the Republic of Croatia, or in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, about 40% of gas needs are produced. So, in the context of the fact that both categories and their prices are market-based as well as in most of these countries, I see no reason why, for example, these two categories in the country which are only part of their production like the Republic of Croatia and we are no exception there, can be found from their own production, more significantly, significantly different or significantly different from the countries that you have listed here. As far as electricity prices are concerned above all in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, what it said in the National Journal applies primarily to the guaranteed service, all those who have an agreed electricity supplier in the Republic of Croatia, this change has not been experienced. So, first of all, there are around 8.5% of total consumers who have around 8.5% of the total consumers who have not agreed to or negotiated their electricity supply in the previous period. As far as the fuel price is concerned, I will return one more step back, so at this point or yesterday the price of gasoline is 10.54 kuna, while the price of the elevator is 10.60 lipa, but one more and another price is formed on the market. The Republic of Croatia, or legal persons operating on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, today only account for 20% of our market needs, which means that 80% of these imports are imported. Mr Sincicu, I believe that in the context of the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Energy that goes after this, for example, that research and research competitions are open both in Panon and Dinaridi, we are talking about 7 exploitation fields in Panon, we are talking about 4 exploitation fields in Dinaridi, which would increase domestic production, and in this context probably make the price more competitive. I believe you don't mind, or perhaps you do, because in that case, how much you criticize the Ministry of Environmental and Energy policy, you jump into your mouth. Let me believe that in your comment and re-attack on these prices and on the ministry's policy you will take these observations into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139383	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139384	Thank you, of course I'm not happy with your answer, my question was very simple. Will there be a collection, price collection, and household from 1.7? I just didn't get that answer, you were talking about a lot of things just not about what I asked you, but I will also comment on these prices that I listed for comparison. Of course we can compare how much the seven-member family in Helsinki spends with two members of the family in Zagreb, so we can say that here are more spending, so they are prices. But that's why there's something called a math average so that we can model and compare and these figures and these analyses don't work out for us, and they didn't even go before when we produced much more gas from domestic sources, much more oil from domestic sources. However, what was I trying to fortify? I wanted to confirm that Croatian energy is dominated by a lobby gathered around the INE that is no longer in Croatian hands, gathered around the PPD, gathered around HEP, which is actually setting us up with all relevant policies for both electricity and for gas and for oil and everything else that is going on. Let's just remember the fate of Petrochemy, bought for years and years, bought gas above the market price to bring in the losses and then sold to this same team that I led to keep everything and manage everything. You cut the nets at the end of last year, OK, that's nice, but then why are we now increasing the electricity prices, talking here we cut the network's entrepreneurs will save, great why then 4 months later we still raise the prices to the entrepreneurs. Now we're in a situation where our prices are even higher, and our nets are falling. What does that mean? They'll lose HEP's companies, we'll lose production, we'll lose transmissions, we'll push them to minus one day to buy them, and whoever makes us, traders, mechanics, resellers. Their cake is also rising on the top because prices are rising And on the bottom, because their expenses have fallen, so ask yourselves, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You run energy policy. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Sincic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139385	Let's go to question 34, MP Damir Felak is asking him to be appointed by the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139386	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues and colleagues, my question goes to Mr Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. It concerns one capital project that takes place in the Republic of Croatia in the northwest, which is the construction of the second railway track on the Dugo Selo – Križevci section. The construction of this project began, or the railways started at the end of 2016, or the works were intensified in mid-2017 and since then some of the traffic on that section has been taking place on buses which clearly require certain and effort for passengers and clearly extends the course of travel on the track as far as clean passenger traffic is concerned. This has been going on for almost 2 years now, and it is clear that people are experiencing some dissatisfaction and their patience is almost over because a lot of people travel that way towards Zagreb both to work and students and children to school. My particular question is what are the deadlines for completing the construction of the second railway track on Long Village – Križevci and teaching when the construction of the Križevci section – Koprivnica – Botovo and also the construction of these shares is financed mostly from EU funds, are we going to complete construction in time and withdraw all the resources available for these projects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139387	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139388	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Long Selo – Križevci project is one of the largest infrastructure and first project in the Republic of Croatia from larger projects, funded by EU funds. He, for him, was signed a grant contract, a tender was launched, and you said exactly somewhere in 2016, the work started in the middle, and at this point what we know the project is going, will not come, will not come to a loss of European funds but will be delayed. It will be late for the biggest, one and the main reason why one of the subcontractors in that consortium that got the job went bankrupt and it took some time until there was a new contractor who mainly works construction work, and now we know that there will be a delay. The project should be completed, it is financed from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, it will be completed sometime by the end, or by the beginning of 2021, and this second project you are talking about, which is the continuation of the construction of the railway towards the Hungarian border, which is financed by the so-called so-called "Birds". The CEF of the Connecting Europe Facility Fund and, at the moment, after all the actions and changes in spatial plans have been carried out, the solution to the implementation of the e-laboration, parceling, etc., the issue of building permits, the call for tenders and the opening of tenders for this other large infrastructure project, and one and the other are on the Mediterranean corridor. The total value of these projects is around EUR 600 million, so there will be no and there is no fear of losing European funds, it is working on these projects, I say, in this first one there will be a delay, but that will not lead to loss and danger in order to lose European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139389	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139390	Mr. Minister, thank you for the concrete answers, my question was asked with that intention to get as many precise and concrete deadlines as when things will be built and when what will be done, I believe that all well-meaning ones will accept the argument that there has been a certain delay which is not unusual in such large projects. In any case, it is to welcome that such large funds are being invested on this corridor and this direction, and I believe that the passengers will start in 2021. when this share is released from Križevci to Vrbovac will be much more satisfied and see that they have been paid to wait for it to end, and even more satisfied will be the passengers from Koprivnica and from all the places that gravity towards this station when it is finished and this part of the Križovci to Koprivnica will then be one of the most modern railways in the Republic of Croatia, and surely this direction since it is on the international corridor, it deserves it, and the greatest benefits will be the economy of this region and all citizens and those who are also, I say, either work, school or any other way related to Zagreb, and such is a large number in our northwestern part of Croatia, the area of Podravina and Prigorje. Thanks again for the concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139391	We are now going to the 35th question, dear colleague Drazen Milinkovic is asking the question from EU Regional Development Minister and EU funds, Gabrieli Zalac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139392	Dear President HS, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister and Ministers, fellow parliamentary representatives, ministers, as we come from the county, both in ours and others, makes a large part of the county of rural areas, we know that in the field of rural space there are problems with Internet access, Internet network, quality problems, speed, as well as in suburban settlements, and we do not have to explain what access to the Internet means in the 21st century. I ask you a question when it is expected to build access networks in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia that will allow people to access the Internet quickly, and how much funding is provided for these projects?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139393	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139394	Thank you very much, Mr. Milinkovic. Dear President HS, Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow ministers and parliamentary deputies, a very important issue for rural areas, on 19 March this year our ministry announced a tender or a public invitation to show interest in participating in the network of next generations that will certainly be important for the broadband internet. Billion and 100 million kunas are worth this competition where we expect a great interest from all units of local self-government, especially from rural areas, 192,000, so households will be covered by the implementation of this project when we talk about broadband and fast internet connection, which is certainly a prerequisite for economic development in certain areas. In addition, our operational programme provides for the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and a prerequisite for building this broadband network, which is a strategic project for a company called Transmitters and Connections. The first thing to do is to build a really basic infrastructure so that a broadband network can then be established in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. What we need to say at this point is that these are insufficient funds to cover the entire Republic, I attribute it to poor programming, we will certainly be one of the strategic things for the next financial period when we talk about the digital economy to make sure that and still the funds are at least so much needed to cover the entire Republic. However, I expect that the construction of broadband infrastructure will be completed by the end of 2023. When we talk about the physical construction of optical networks, I am sure it is a prerequisite to respond to the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution and to look forward to the implementation of this competition itself, which I expect we will already have applications in August when we talk about opening this call in full when we know the whole statement of interest and I believe that in early 2020. start already with the implementation of the projects that will apply to this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139395	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139396	... And I thank the Minister Grief. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139397	Let's go to the 36th last question, MP Bojan Glavasevic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139398	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, my question to you is, do you know how much you would pay an average rent of up to 60 m2 in Zagreb? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139399	You can repeat, he didn't hear the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139400	Yes, I can repeat the question. So, Mr. Prime Minister, do you know how much you will pay rent in Zagreb up to 60 m2 on average?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139401	No answer, you can comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139402	No answer? So, I don't know if you're uninformed or uninterested, but it's something that's the problem. I mean, I'm not going to come to you right now the way someone else might, but it's really hard to find an apartment for rent in big Croatian cities. One part, I mean, it's really become a huge problem. In part, it is because of the fact that the short term rent has been very difficult to find apartments that are in the long term rental, and when possible, prices have gone up. For example, in Zagreb, last year the rent price rose by 8.4%, in Split 3.4%, in Rijeka 7.7%. For an apartment up to 60 square meters in Zagreb you will have to pay about 634 euros or over 4600 kn. For an apartment of about 80 square meters, it will be about 900 euros. So, if you're a young family, let's say, you'll have to pay, I mean I don't know how to, say one salary, an average Croatian you can live if you don't have your own property. It's not life, it's survival, and to make things worse, I don't know if you know the data, probably not because you're not interested, not even now that you're not listening to me, that between 70% and 80% of young people in Croatia, means people between the ages of 18 and 34 still live with their parents. I mean, Mr. Prime Minister, if this country becomes too expensive for its own citizens, then, I mean, that's why people didn't die, that's why they didn't fight for it, so, in this country, it's one kidnapped state, from their own people. I'm sorry you're not interested. I'm not happy with your answer, and I guess other things impress you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139403	Let's go to the last question, MP Anka Mrak-Taritash, asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139404	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. My question may be simpler than my colleagues Glavasevic, and it is related to the Law on Pregnant Pregnancy and Women's Right to Choice. We are witnessing a sad situation where both the Government and the Parliament don't actually respect the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has made it a recommendation or a request to pass a new law regulating the issue of abortion, two months have passed since all deadlines were exceeded. We are also witnessing the situation that is in Croatia, that about 60% of the gynecologists in Croatia have, now a monster, a disease called a conscience call, parallel to that, 3% of the gynecologist in Slovenia also have an appeal of conscience. I'm sure you and I can agree, that every hospital that has gynecology and every director of the hospital is obliged to ensure that women are able to gynecologically, to perform a request to interrupt, or to complete a pregnancy termination procedure according to all the pupils on which the doctors took the oath and swore. But in Croatia, however, it is not. Not to say that health care or civic education is completely forgotten, but while we have really prayer gatherings and somehow quiet Croatia goes deep back, we had a good law in the last century, this law is still in force in Slovenia. For your information, in the event that it was not adequately brought to your attention, fellow Democrats, from a party that is a member of the Amsterdam coalition, counterpart Miranda Mrsic referred to a great law in the parliamentary procedure. We don't mind you using it and making the same law. and my question when will the law be in the parliamentary procedure? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139405	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139406	Thank you very much, Representative Dark-Taritash. I think you had a statement from the president on the subject two months ago, I think. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has requested this with regard to new regulation. the improvement of the existing HS framework, not the Government. The Parliament was obvious and that's all I'm going to say at this point, you have a law that's positive, it's been in force for 41 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139407	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139408	Dear Prime Minister, it's clear to me, here's almost two hours that you've been here since half 10, that these questions that are at the end have no patience or will or idea to answer them, that's your right. The same is the right of a serious country, where there is one serious prime minister. This unfortunately Croatia does not have and with this answer you have actually, as for some other things, transferred responsibility to someone else, in this case you transferred responsibility to HS. And you and I know very well that the proposal must come from the government. That the proposal must come from the government and that equally, we have the right to discuss it, equally, we know well that the minister has made one group of experts or no matter what we call them, who have no idea how to end it. I am sure, as you are following the media, you told some colleagues that you were following the media, you see that around 25% has already been increased in neighbouring Brežice where women from Croatia are coming in. I'm sure it's just not good, that when there's a problem that you don't need to put it under the carpet, that problem when you put it under the carpet, then you can just pop on it. I'm sure what's organized around hospitals is prayer gatherings, too, is not good. The question is the moment when the call to conscience in a particular hospital will have a porter, so he'll ask the woman where she's going, so depending on where she's going, he'll decide whether or not to go to that hospital. I'm sorry that you didn't need to answer this question, I'm sorry that this government has no will and no responsibility and no responsibility to let a law that should have been improved, and it's not some big deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139409	This is what we've come to the end of. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you, and thank you also to the Prime Minister and to the members and members of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139410	Respected few colleagues and no colleagues. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 15.01 HOURS]] How many of us are there? Five in the hall. We will continue to work and the 1st point we will have today will be: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Restricted Measures, First Reading, P.Z. No. 622 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Andreja Metelko Zgombic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139411	... Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs Allow me to present to you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Restricted Measures. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] This law regulates the procedure for implementing international restrictive measures implemented by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the legal acts of the European Union and binding resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, even if it adopts such measures itself on the basis of a decision by the Government. International restrictive measures are the instruments of diplomatic and economic nature which seek to affect the change in the activities and policies of certain entities aimed at violating international law or democratic principles. Therefore, such restrictive measures are actually sanctions or restrictive measures which may be directed towards third-country governments or non-state entities such as terrorist groups or individuals, which may include a restriction of commercial nature, for example. The prohibition on imports – exports, the prohibition on the provision of services, may include restrictions on the financial nature such as freezing of the assets and assets of the perpetrators, may include the embargo on arms imports, the restriction of acceptance, the ban on issuing visas or travel bans as well as other appropriate measures. The application and monitoring of the implementation of such international measures is a complex matter, but it is of paramount importance because it contributes to the fight against international terrorism, organised crime and encourages the preservation of international peace and security. The law governing this area came into force in 2008 and has so far experienced one amendment in 2014 after the Republic of Croatia entered the European Union. At that time, it was necessary to create and adapt the legal framework for the decision-making of the directly implementing regulations of the Council of the European Union. This is now the second amendment ahead of you and it is proposed to trace the recommendations of the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe MONIVAL, which periodically assess the system for the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism by all Member States and on the implementation of these measures draws up reports. The above proposal for these amendments and additions was drawn up in accordance with the report and the recommendations of MONIVAL and the specific recommendations of the group of countries for the financial action, etc. FATF is an international body aimed at promoting effective implementation of legal, regulatory, operational measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. In line with the recommendations mentioned above and the application of the proposed measures, it is also ensured that countries actively implementing these measures would not impose an obligation to conduct an enhanced depth analysis for natural and legal persons from the Republic of Croatia, which could then lead to the difficult economic business of our domestic business entities abroad. So much of this bill, which is now before you, is positively reflected in the market opportunities of Croatian businessmen who will continue to receive equal treatment when providing their services and products on the international stage. The phenomenon of international terrorism is unfortunately universal and we must all contribute to the fight against terrorism and transnational organised crime. This proposal for a law in response to threats to international security enables transposition or introduction into the internal legal system of the Republic of Croatia of measures from binding United Nations Security Council resolutions, in particular those relating to the conduct relating to the freezing of terrorist assets and their assistants. In order to clearly identify the concept of assets and economic operators, the draft law also introduces a new definition of assets and other assets. The new definition of assets and other assets also includes virtual assets, and in particular points out oil and other natural resources by expanding both the definition of economic resources and the sanctions that can be imposed. The concept of control or control of assets and assets is extended by introducing a new concept of joint or indirect supervision that now includes control of the property and financial means of mates, blood or Tabian relatives of persons on the sanctions list. It is then ensured that the property is not made available in an indirect manner to all entities before international restrictive measures, the concrete court in the Republic of Croatia will have the right to block the assets of foreign legal persons in Croatia with registered company in the Republic of Croatia provided that it is on the sanctions list. Furthermore, it is prescribed that the freezing measures of assets, other funds, individuals and entities to which measures and measures are to be taken and applied are to be implemented without prior notification to those entities and persons. Public publication of the list of natural and legal persons and other entities under international restrictive measures on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs shall also be ensured. The law more clearly defines the powers of the task force to implement and monitor the implementation of international measures to introduce extended, their powers, so that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs coordinates the work of the group, as well as representatives of the competent authorities, state and public administrations in the Republic of Croatia. The law also provides that the group may propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the adoption of restrictive measures against natural and legal persons, therefore additional measures, if considered justified, with measures that may be suggested by some other EU Member States or by some third countries. The new legislative solution ensures that, if necessary, the Republic of Croatia can apply therefore international restrictive measures before the end of the transposition process into EU legislation. Therefore, direct application of mandatory sanctions of the Security Council. It is also possible that the Government's right to make certain decisions, regulations and enforcement measures within the framework of, of course, what is agreed within the framework of the EU's common foreign security policy, or what is agreed and prescribed in the framework of the Security Council's binding decisions, but also what the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself considers necessary to adopt an evaluation situation. Finally, these amendments to the law lay down measures that contribute to the fight against international terrorism, transnational organised crime, which contribute to transparency and the preservation of international peace, stability, security in the world, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this high House be supported by this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139412	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139413	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, we, of course, agree that in Croatia the legislation is incorporated into these provisions on protection of citizens, protection of property, protection from money laundering and that these tools are welcome. However, the fact is that economic analysts, at least that's what they say, is that in Croatia more than 30% of the economy is somewhere in the gray zone, somewhere between 40 and 50 billion kunas per year do not show up or pay taxes on it. For these reasons, the HSS also proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the adoption of control laws and illegally acquired assets to tax the disproportionateness between income and property, however, the Government has made it abundant. And if we were right here and the other day the journalists announced that a minister also reported to the property card the value of the estate of 800,000 kuna, and in reality it is worth 3.5 million kuna. There are many examples like this, and why you gave it up. [[Intruder: Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139415	I thank you for this question, perhaps just a brief answer to this law is precisely detailing the definition of property and therefore it will cover all the real assets of natural and legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139416	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first to appear on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGE respected representative Branimir Bunjac, is missing, losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will now speak the esteemed representative Miro Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139417	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I warmly welcome Mrs. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister and Mrs. Chunko of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and I am pleased to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ about this bill specifically on amendments and additions to the Law on International Restricted Measures. We heard Mrs. Secretary of State talking about why this law is changing, I'm going to say a few words to clarify the whole context. So 30 years ago, one of the 7 most developed countries in the world, the state of the world, means G7 set up one, one working group for financial action, in English means Financial Action Task Force, and that's, and that working group is then '90. For years, she has issued 40 recommendations for combating money laundering and the use of such money illegally laundered under allegations for illegal purposes specifically for the purpose of international terrorism. Several times these recommendations changed in '96. 2001, 2003, 2012. Croatia is not covered by the so-called team. The FATF is a working group for financial action but is a member of Manivol or Manivel, however you wish to mean the Supervisory Body of the Council of Europe, 20 Council countries of Europe are covered by that Financial Action Task Force. Croatia belongs to the 27 countries of the Council of Europe covered by Manival and mainly those recommendations relating to the countries that founded the working group mean FATF also refers to Manivol and hence to the Republic of Croatia. As part of our membership in Manivol, reports of mutual evaluation are being written, according to these reports, Croatia stands well, I listened to a colleague from the HSS, I can accept that we have problems in many areas, we are not the only ones in the world, but in the area of money laundering the Republic of Croatia stands well, namely, there is one index of one institute in Basel so-called. The index that observes money laundering in the world and the Republic of Croatia is the ninth best in the world after Finland, Estonia, Lithuania, New Zealand, Northern Macedonia, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Sweden and before Israel, so I will not enter into the details of this proposal of the law, I will just say that amendments to the law are necessary and necessary and, of course, to comply with the acquis of the EU, the State Secretary mentioned Directive of the Council of the EU and of the European Parliament of 2018. and, therefore, in order to remain fit in this area, the HDZ Representatives Club is supporting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139418	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. State secretaries with co-workers, therefore, are further regulation in the case, I would say international sanctions, it is now called restrictive measures, universally known as sanctions that can be imposed against states, but also against individuals. I would say that the main newspaper of these amendments and the addition of this law is that restrictive measures can be applied which, decided by the UN or the Security Council and before this content is incorporated into Croatian legislation, we consider it positive and acceptable. But there's a certain problem I'll be right back at, just to comment on a few more things that change around here. Therefore, a new situation is being introduced that the Security Council resolution, which prescribes the act in the case of the assets of terrorists and their assistants, to immediately freeze it, is now becoming an integral part of the internal legal framework of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it is said that it is possible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose certain sanctions or certain restrictive measures to be adopted by the Council of the EU. This has been the case so far, so each Member State has been able to initiate sanctions against certain individuals or states, but there is also a problem in that point. Namely, the EU or the Council of the EU shall adopt sanctions or restrictive regimes consensually. Therefore, it brings them in such a way that all Member States must agree on these measures and every Member State, we have had such examples, that I do not go too far into the details now, but I can first say that I was sitting at a meeting where one Member State insisted that one particular person be exempt from the sanctions regime and until that point was reached by consensus, these restrictive measures could not be implemented. And now my question and the dilemma about these innovations, so, let's say, the Republic of Croatia can impose sanctions on the Council of Security before they become an integral part of them, so before they go through Parliament and before they go through it, I assume by how it is formulated, and before they pass the decision-making procedure within the European Council or the Council of Ministers, and then the European Council. What happens if the Republic of Croatia imposes sanctions or restrictive measures, and, say within the European Council, no consensus is reached or some modified consensus is reached, so some agree on a somewhat modified or different solution. Whether we have an answer to this or we believe that the fact that something has gone through the Security Council guarantees unanimity or consensus in the European Council. So, in itself, this defacto is the only right to change that is legalized or formalised here, which is that the Security Council decisions on sanctions or restrictions can be applied immediately without or before the completion of the procedure in the Republic of Croatia, what is the relationship and how does this relate to the decision within the European Council? Therefore, the consensus remains in force as regards EU sanctions or restrictive measures carried out by the EU, and this becomes more complex in modern conditions, I would say or something, something more complicated, especially if we take into account the fact that it states here that Croatia can launch this on the basis of the initiative of a Member State of the European Union, but also non-members of the European Union. Hence, some countries outside the European Union. At this point, we have a rather complicated situation compared to Iran's sanctions. As we know, there is this agreement with Iran that America has come out of which the European Union is trying to maintain and which in some ways is the agreement that abolishes a large number of sanctions for Iran, the European Union is trying to save in some way. And on the other hand, the United States is strengthening the sanctions regime countering or restricting Iran. How is Croatia - and this is the third country we can say even though the third country that originally signed the international agreement - how does Croatia apply in these situations? It's even more complicated when it comes to individuals. Most often, when it comes to restrictive measures, it refers to individuals of the so-called ‘indicators’. tycoons mostly Eastern European provinces. Therefore, individuals who, in some cases, had either invested outside their own country in certain European Union countries, and on these topics usually had a struggle or conflict on the European Council or among the Member States of the European Union, and there was a need to reach consensus in order to introduce restrictive measures. The restrictive measures or sanctions that Croatia itself would impose against someone I suppose are not here on the agenda for a number of reasons, including extreme inefficiency that would cause it. But this conflict between the level of decision of the Security Council, so the United Nations and, on the other hand, the decision of the European Union, which declares such measures and brings consensus, I think there is a potential conflict in which Croatia could be found with this type of legislation in unsecured grapes, applying sanctions that the European Union eventually accepts under, for example, in another form or declared in another form than those originally declared by the United Nations. So on this subject, I think it would be good to give a specific explanation of how Croatia is set up in this case. Depending on the explanation, then we will support or not support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139420	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Josko Klisovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139421	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the secretary of state with my associates. And I must say at the outset that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Restricted Measures, and we simply believe that this is actually an update of the existing law that is welcome and necessary and that it needs to be brought into line with new recommendations, especially MANIVAL, in order to be part of a single global system that is trying to stop, prevent or reduce terrorist financing or money laundering. Of course, money only washes away those who have it, so you should look at the origin of the money as it comes to it. Because usually people who are very influential in certain societies are those who launder that money and thus ensure their influence in society through money. What seems very important to me is that, by updating this law and harmonising with FATF recommendations, we are de facto bringing our businessmen and companies into a more equal position in international markets because if we respect these recommendations, they will not be subject to enhanced depth analysis when it comes to a particular market, which will certainly facilitate their economic business. The sanctions themselves, given that these are sanctions, are what should always be warned about measures that are trying to affect those who make decisions in certain countries, therefore, to the authority of a particular state. But very often sanctions affect more ordinary citizens than they hit authorities and in this sense the concept of smart sanctions or smart facts has developed and what Croatia should every time before agreeing to certain sanctions whether they are brought within the United Nations, the European Union or to join certain unilateral sanctions to insist on an analysis of the effectiveness of these sanctions. In a concrete case and an analysis of how they will affect ordinary citizens, how much they will suffer for sanctions, and how much they will be able to put pressure on the authorities to change the policy for which sanctions themselves are being imposed. Acceleration of procedures within the Republic of Croatia is an example of sanctions which really came very well, including these strengthened powers of a permanent group, because what we had sometimes not only in Croatia but also in other countries that sanctions were not applied in real time or from the announcement that they would be introduced, so that paper really was implemented and that the state authorities could implement them, there was always a time gap that led to the fact that the money that was in the accounts was then raised and that they were not covered by sanctions. So, sanctions have time, and they only make sense if they're done in real time and they're not allowed for those who are under sanctions to pull their goods out of a place where they can be subject to sanctions on those where they can't be subject to sanctions. It is very good to introduce virtual property, something that comes here with the 21st century, therefore, we also update in this context the law and it seems important to me, as well as the possibility of publishing a list of natural and legal persons who are under international sanctions of the UN or the EU, that list should be available to everyone, including our owners, so as not to accidentally rush into certain business arrangements with companies, with foundations, with cells related to terrorism, or with other illicit and illegal activities. Here, I repeat once again, I won't owe any more, I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139422	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139423	Thank you very much, Vice President, representatives of the ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I will take this opportunity once again to congratulate you and with this later, all the best for Easter, here we are going to work, we have agenda points that may have a lower value at first sight, then we have the current clock, probably the media have recorded a lot of things, but the topic we're going to talk about is definitely important now and we need to give together support to both initiatives and this initiative and on the other hand to see what is happening with us that it actually leads to the fact that, in the very preamble of the law, it is said that the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe Monivel, they have given the same assessment and the improvement of the system of money laundering and terrorist financing, as soon as you get recommendations, it means certain movements that are happening and should be carefully looked at and, of course, we need to be aware, all flows can never be overlooked, nor be stopped in any way we can be stopped in practice, but we should we can't be able to stop in practice. We followed through our media that exactly the form of money laundering there are various, from those of us perhaps banal, here we have now been recently about Slovenian doctors, a group of Slovenian doctors who deposited with us the money, which, to say the least, was collected from the bribes they received. If it wasn't a little something, it's saying that it's an amount of EUR 1.2 million, so sometimes from those very small things you can create money that someone decides they're going to be somewhere close to him if we talk about geographical proximity, if we're talking about some kind of linguistic proximity, that it happens to us. Mostly when it's revealed, then the question is again, that money has come to us. We also have some larger proportions, recently there was a group from Italy that washed in our country somewhere assumed about 180 million kunas, which are not so small money anymore. So it's happening at a higher level. Here in the end we don't talk about us, very often we talk about people in the Republic, who through various forms try to launder money, is the most common form that from a commercial society, and even if better, perhaps from something owned by the state, turn to a private account that doesn't have to pay taxes, but God forbid it's still to finance some activities like terrorism, I hope we don't have a case like that. But again, I stress, we need to be aware that it might occur at some point to come upon impact to find someone from the area, from the area of the Republic of Croatia, that the money that may have come to some families, states, has done evil, and that is why we are giving support to this initiative to go into these changes. What matters is, we've established, we're aware of it, and it's happening with us. But then the question arises what are we going to do with these transactions, how do we spot them? What is the characteristic of the system in the Republic of Croatia, which is that the funds that are not recorded in some way under 75,000, so someone could do so little by little if we talk about those small amounts, put in with us and create a certain amount, of course, that's exhausting. There are those who come, so they buy real estate, and then we see that there are cases where there's a property that's in the middle of unsettled land books that doesn't register, so it stays unsettled, but that's where we're going to say not only from outside, but we've created a system where many and our individuals don't want to show their property, and that's how they hide their property. So, everything that we might be doing here, it comes from outside, so it recognizes as an opportunity to make big and what's recognizable, which we can often meet, maybe through comical situations of some series or movies where everyone steals a little bit, and then steals those little ones, and then those who are their bosses steal, so everyone's silent is that generally acceptable. And we can also talk about this happening on, seeing that we're a suitable area. We also have exchanges happening where, apparently, at first glance, everything would be legal. We had in the case of Agrokor where, for example, it was semi-legislative, difficult to define when that legislation was once unsettled, pulled out the money, so it was to create new acquisitions, for certain costs, to transfer the funds from the Republic to the outside, where it was eventually pulled out there and spent for its own needs. Therefore, the models are numerous. Then we have one model that might be the same is related to this affair that was around Agrokor, which is making new money through the bonds. So there's a new money being traded. It's made up of one obligation that you create that's paper, but eventually it becomes money. So I'm giving you something that might be in some hidden account somewhere, and now I'm going to caricate it, and you're going to give me a bond. I turn that bond into money and we wash it. So it's quick to wash. All these examples that I have cited show only that there are many fictitious legal affairs that institutions should oversee. And they will always say, "Yes, but you there in the House have passed these laws, and now they are not good for you. Yeah, but we vote on laws. The law can never be detailed enough to prevent our creativity from ending. But institutions that are responsible for monitoring the financial particularly financial market should be trained and should recognise such phenomena and react more up-to-date so that we don't feel like it when we discuss an affair to tell us – yes, we have seen it. We had examples from the Croatian National Bank when they said, "Yes, we saw that, so we warned about it but then when it escalated once," they said, "Well yes but we told you so." We now see that on Shiri Lanca, the prime minister himself said of this unprecedented tragedy – yes, the services were warned but somewhere it was stuck in the system. I'm afraid it's not exactly the case with us that we're experiencing such phenomena and that those who are the key decision-makers eventually call them. It will be called the Minister, the Government and those responsible for why nothing has been done. One of the problems that often arises is the question of real owners who should also be considered as seriously, where we have a chance to see some offshore companies or some foreign funds taking over ownership shares in Croatia on behalf of the unknown owner. Now here we are in the Nacional reading about the INA where it's being questioned whether there will be investments in the Refinery of Rijeka, whether this is what we call some silent agreement that appears through the media that the river refinery will be restored. In that case, everything would be fine, and if it hadn't been restored then the government would have taken some action. But let's always forget, there's that part that's been run on careful property, on custody accounts that could be so I could say here we in the Bridge we had a chance when the government was founded we were the smaller partner but without that the smaller partner couldn't practically form a government. If we only saw that such a model of what they are owners of custody accounts would be transferred then all decisions could be made, but they want for who knows what reasons to be hidden, Therefore, the covertness behind it can also be something that is actually a model of money laundering where neither the name, nor the origin of the property, nor the reasons why it takes place, especially here is an INA which had strategic significance in Croatia, the share. I have stated this about land books, therefore, I wanted to be concrete, of course, to give support to this proposal, but it is concrete that these cases happen to us, that we cannot generalise these cases, but that we should actually determine what enables them to appear, which are responsible institutions to prevent and what is most important, we should also have a national awareness raising campaign that such phenomena definitely do not contribute to progress, not to society, nor to the state in which we live, and that we should report it for knowledge. It often happens to us that individuals who notice certain such malfeasances do not have enough faith in state institutions to make an application, a application that will be processed on their part, and that may not be exposed to such an individual and to determine the measure of things, not who he reported and who he would break up with because very often in court proceedings, it happens to us that those who are crown witnesses when they come to cross-examination suddenly forgot what they stated, so here we had such a question about the money that Sanader got, which was actually transferred to the accounts of one of his, I will tell the partner at that time, that this money suddenly never returned to where he belonged. If the state were to look for him and confiscate him in fact for this time and then we see that there's been a lot of these happening, I'd say, the malversion behind it, and our judicial system doesn't have the tools or there's not enough power to cut it off resolutely. Here, I just want the proposings both within and within this law and other laws that will be related to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing to be determined and to get clear support not only here and from the ruling ones, but also from the opposition and, of course, what is even more important after the laws are passed that they can and can be implemented and there is training very important and freedom that, regardless of any policy or other influence, they can implement measures and prevent such events. I hope that in the life of those of us who are still here, we will be able to say that we have really contained such phenomena to a minimum, but aware that this can never be prevented to the end, so here we will give support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139424	Thank you. The individual debate was attended by respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, who is not, is losing his right to debate, and will now say something finally on behalf of the promoter, respectable Secretary of State Andreja Metelko Zgombic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139425	I thank you, really, just a few short words, I would like to thank all the speakers so far, because from the presentation it has been visible that we can really count on one broad and large support of the high house's representatives related to these amendments and additions to the law. With these really changes and additions, we're gonna make our law even better. As regards the question of the relationship between the content of restrictive measures taken within the Security Council, which are in itself mandatory for all UN Member States and then the relationship of these restrictive measures which are then adopted at EU level within the framework of the Common Security and Foreign Policy, we can therefore say that, of course, the Security Council brings binding sanctions and they are as binding for all members. The Council, the EU and its Member States, of course, have and retain the right to adopt perhaps different but not measures which would be contrary to those which have been prescribed by the Security Council but may therefore be wider, deeper and different, and on this basis all Member States, as we have heard the decision, unanimously, so by consensus and indeed there have been cases and it is still known sometimes that even one Member State is denying its consent from some of its particular interests, but this does not prevent other Member States independently from expecting a decision within the framework of the common security and foreign policy to adopt and introduce these concrete measures. So, we have sanctions that are imposed under the Security Council, we have sanctions that are mutually agreed within the framework of common security and external, and as defined by this law, it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a lot of rights and alone to adopt certain measures, whether to deepen, extend those already existing or even adopt some other measures that the Government considers necessary, starting from its own political assessment. What is necessary is, of course, that these measures are in line that they are not contrary to those adopted within the Security Council as well as those common security and external. When, mentioning, and who can propose to all governments to make, even a little bit of different additional, deeper, wider measures, the current proposal is very broadly envisaged, it allows the government of course to make a decision of its own accord, members of this expert group, but can indeed also third countries and is even listed not only by EU Member States but also by third countries. Why is that? In particular, this is meant by those Member States of the Council of Europe, which are gathered within Manivol, the waves from which it is really possible in this close cooperation of the Member States of the Council of Europe, may have suggestions and suggestions for the adoption of some new measures and sanctions. In any case, the decision in this particular one remains with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And perhaps just to conclude that we have already informed, informed and informed Manivol and received very good positive feedback on these proposals, through our Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. And that even resulted in Manivol giving up a special evaluation procedure that he had regularly scheduled for the Republic of Croatia provided that really these measures, as they are now proposed before you, are accepted. Here, we really believe that these proposals are a very good contribution to the fight of the Republic of Croatia and to preventing money laundering and international crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139426	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139427	Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on international restrictive measures, first reading, P.Z. Number 622. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on International Restriction Measures is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 108 for, 12 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139428	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project of national co-financing of EU funds between 2014 and 2020/B, second reading. P.Z. Number 627 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Monumenta Djuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139429	I would like to thank the chair, respected representatives and MPs before you the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the National Co-financing Project of the EU Funds for the period of '14. - '20s. and this is the B project, or the B contract. In accordance with the law on the execution of international contracts, this law actually confirms the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the national co-financing project of the EU funds in the period '14. And the '20s. The contract was signed on 7 December 2018 in Zagreb for the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and signed by Finance Minister Zdravko Marić and for the European Investment Bank was Vice-President, the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank Mr Dario Scannapieco. At a meeting of the Board of Directors held on 14 December 2014, the EIB and the European Investment Bank authorised Croatia to provide national contributions for co-financing of projects from the European Structural Investment Funds in the programming period '14-20. and the amount of the indicative loan is EUR 600 million. The financing agreement shall provide a national contribution to co-finance projects from the European Structural Investment Funds stemming from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion '14-20, as well as large projects from the Connecting Europe Facility. CEF instrument. The total amount of the loan is EUR 300 million, while the total amount of the first part of the loan to EUR 300 million was fully withdrawn in September 2017. The first part of the project was mainly allocated to projects to cover the national part of co-financing for state budget users. As you all know, I assume the overall value of the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion has been estimated at EUR 8.1 billion, and the financing contract then ensures co-financing of projects in the field of transport, energy, the environment including waste and waste water management, health, development research, nature protection, social infrastructure, information and communication technologies and urban recovery. The project holder is the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds as the managing body for the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion which, as well as for the first part of this loan, will be responsible for the implementation of the project and will be the main contributor to the European Investment Bank in connection with the selection of individual projects for co-financing, project implementation planning and monitoring progress towards the investment bank, as was the case in the case of the first part of this loan. The borrower is the Republic of Croatia represented by the Ministry of Finance. I therefore propose that, given that there is not much change in relation to the first part of this loan, this proposal of the law on the confirmation of the contract and acceptance is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139430	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139431	In view of the fact that the Director of the Central Agency for Contracting and Financing of the projects said that the implementation body of SAFU 689 decisions on irregularities is interested in me and that totals 500 million corrections, means half a billion, I am interested in how much of these 500 million corrections, irregularities, illegalities will be financed from this loan, how much is on hold and how much will be financed from this loan that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139432	The answer to a respected secretary of state. No, not from the place, from the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139433	I thank you for the question of respected MPs, thank you, thank you for the question of respected advocates, as I said to the EIB loan or credit funds, only eligible costs are financed, and you certainly know that the cost of financial corrections is not acceptable, so that unacceptable costs will not be financed by this loan, and each of the users is to ensure the way in which they will finance unacceptable costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139434	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139435	Thank you, Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, can these EUR 600 million from this fund also be co-financed by projects of units of local and regional self-government under the Slavonia Project and projects of craftsmen and entrepreneurs? Why would I ask that? I also pointed out on the advice for Slavonia that the capacity of the budget of local self-government units is now booked that they no longer have the means to co-finance and monitor projects. Here, for example. in Brod-Posavia County where they have agreed some 10 projects for energy reconstruction of health institutions and schools that amount to more than 100 million kuna and the county has to borrow to co-finance this amount, so there is no money for other projects. So I ask you, can these projects be co-financed from this fund, or will our municipalities and cities, our craftsmen, then have the advantage of using these funds for their projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139436	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139437	Dear Representative, through this loan as I said in the exhibition, a national component for co-financing of large projects financed from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion and from the Connecting Europe Facility is provided. CEF instrument. Within the framework of projects to be applied and justified by this co-financing may also be some projects implemented in the areas of units of local and regional self-government, however, these are primarily projects which provide a national component for the users of the state budget. For all those who are not funding for co-financing, projects are provided in some other ways, such as calling for public calls to provide funding for co-financing for projects provided in a specific case by our ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. The approach is equal to everyone, in the same way we justify it, and will within the framework of projects that will be credited to also enter some of the projects of entrepreneurs or possibly a unit [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local or regional self-government depends on whether and for any of these projects co-financing will be ensured from.../incomprehensible/... thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139438	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will speak to the honourable representative Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139439	Thank you very much, respected secretary of state with co-workers we have here and you yourself have said something that is repeated, unfortunately what we have to say is that here we are looking at how much we get from the EU the part that we need to co-finance ourselves shows that we can't do it with our own strengths either. We see actually what a weakness is, in fact, the financial weakness of our country where normally if someone presents you, I look at you within cohesion policy, so in this period we're supposed to get somewhere around EUR 9.45 billion, we should co-finance ourselves within these seven years, but we don't have our own financial strength. One loan of EUR 300 million we spent somewhere in 2017. Now comes a new tranche of another 300 million you just said yourself you go to finance these big, means capital projects that should be, but every loan, it postpones today's spending for future time. I understand that of course borrowing under these conditions is very convenient and then an economic someone will say why to spend your own funds that you can spend somewhere further if you can already get such favourable loans. But what we often have a chance to see is that actually these assets that would be released through such favourable loans are not the funds that can now be exploited and bring about this accelerated growth. We had examples of just about the loans that happen to us that here are EUR 300 million now we are taking loans that we will return over a long period of time, on the other hand, send us someone to collect the guarantee, state guarantees, as in the case of the Oilies, and we pay them all within a few months. So, we can, sometimes when it's really important, we can, whenever we want, we can, when we make a good redistribution, we can and we have to. Sometimes we have to make this effort, let's make an effort to spend some of our own resources, so it's not just borrowing. In fact, the nation is looking forward to hearing the news that the prime minister conveys, we're dropping levels, in general, meaning our duties, the public debt is smaller. However, when we look at the one, its size, it grows slightly, it tends to slightly increase by approving actually and by borrowing this new one, we're going to add a little bit to that. So we have to keep making new efforts to grow our, our budget revenues, to grow our GDP, and then we have to show by the percentage of how much it decreases, but we can't get to how much that's the total amount of money that our country is looking at if we divide it by the population, how much each resident owes at one point. We have exhausted a lot of financial instruments during this time, and here I was in the government with Minister Marić and following his work, after that all possible, in fact all possible benefits of the moments that we had low interest we did, we did, we refinanced our commitments, we achieved lower interest, so, precisely on these interest rates, imagine how large these interest rates were when we refinanced only the obligation we came to drop our general debt. Imagine if we touched once, buried in the capital, started to return that capital once, there was nothing interest coming, was big, was small, interest was interest, it burdened us, and in fact, in some way, as we follow up with some high-indebted states, became subject to the agreement of powerful forces on how to write off their interest, their duties, but we, as an EU member, of course, should not even think about finding ourselves in such a situation. Now we're going to vote this task and we're going to finance, of course, it should, these projects all need to achieve a new momentum, first through construction, and then later through their use, we should bring new revenues, these revenues to finance this, but then you get a new moment, we go a new budget period, the new proposal is the European Commission to increase the national component, and it would increase from 15% to 30%, and of course we're against it. We're against if we don't have these resources, so we're showing now and with this that we don't have the funds for 15%, and when we get to 30%, we're going to have huge difficulties and all the efforts and Minister Maric now and the whole system that works, he's going to be kind of restored because we're not going to create a new value. But the experience we've seen through the return of state guarantees shows that we can, that we can separate space and that we can cover our needs. Here through the debate I heard, same here from my colleague Vlaovic, local self-government, regional, are already slightly over-indebted, so the intensity of the withdrawal of European projects is slowly, has entered into one of the co-loathes of whether at the beginning it is run by maybe in SDP's government any harder, then a little when it's rolled up, now we need to use it, whoever's a little more agile than the head of local or regional self-government, they've made progress, finance and need their co-financing shut down and they're in debt. And recently we've been listening to the same analysis of what the decentralised funds have been spent on? On a pay raise. So, the mass of wages is growing. Now, if we're going to look at it that way, then we can justifiably ask the question of local self-government, when you whine at us, you go to complain, we don't have our share, and how did you have to raise wages? That was the first thing you managed to solve, and then you say, when we increase it, then we don't have the European projects again, and I know, and I'm sure when the Ministry of Finance was doing a proposal for decentralisation, actually fiscal balancing, that then it was the goal of spending these resources on development projects, but we see that when you give someone too much money all of a sudden and you don't put the frames in which to move, then it all turns into, I'm going to say something that people are colloctually saying, political entanglement, there's probably needs, but if all of this time they could work and where there's been talk about excess workers and everything and suddenly when you get the funds, then you increase the number of employees. So we're very irresponsible sometimes. Of course, by looking at these funds, we will cover the financing of large projects, but what remains remains is a large commitment to be considered, and this is a question of financial corrections on projects which, it is evident that there will be who could be a significant amount and should be also covered whether from this loan or whether they will be covered by someone new loan or we will say in our budget when there is a new budget and there will be so many funds we have to provide to cover these financial corrections. All in all 300 million euros that will now be taken is actually opening another Pandora's box in which it is clear that any new cycle of projects that should be capitalally significant, capital intensive requires new borrowing and re-indebted debt. And on the other hand, listening to the stories, our public debt is in percentage decline, but in nominal terms, we have to be aware that it will grow as much in these favourable circumstances as in the low interest of a low-interest environment in which our economy, which is as successful as it is, shows only that in one smaller, only that there is a smaller recession, only that changes, in fact, the financial conditions of lending can bring us back to a difficult position to actually create ourselves a crisis. And it is very important to be responsible for borrowing and I believe that these words too will be taken into account that the funds that will be borrowed will be spent really on projects that can ensure added value that this added value will be within a very short period of time so that it creates new revenues that can actually finance the new liabilities that we will again have to finance from new loans, favourable, unfavourable but the loan is always a loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139440	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project of national co-financing of EU funds between 2014 and 2020 will be supported by the HDZ Club. It is, therefore, a second reading, and it is good to note that, under Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, laws confirming international contracts are adopted as a rule in one reading and the adoption process is initiated by the submission of the final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the contract which is the case here. Introductoryly, I would like to remind you that the European Investment Bank is an EU institution for long-term lending and is owned by EU Member States. It makes its long-term financial resources available for healthy investment that contributes to the achievement of the EU's policy objectives in Europe and beyond and operates in around 160 countries. The accession of the EU to the Republic of Croatia has become a full member of the European Investment Bank and by day we have concluded 42 contracts with the EIB for 8 loans directly to the Republic of Croatia and 34 loans with a state guarantee of around 4,76 billion euros. Speaking of the financing contract that we are discussing today, we have heard from the secretary of state 600m euros and the EIB Board of Directors approved Croatia in December 2014 for the purpose of ensuring national public co-financing of projects from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. The first part of the 300m-euro loan contracts not in 2015 and was fully paid to Croatia and used in 2017. The first instalment was signed in 2015 and allowed the Croatian government to launch a large number of projects such as the modernisation of the Zaprešić-Zabok railway, the construction of waste water purifier in Krk, the construction and rehabilitation of the water and municipal infrastructure in Vukovar, Petrinja, Rovinj, Zupanja, Vodice, Sibenik, the construction and equipment of the Palitative Care Services of the Varazdin Hospital in Novi Maraf and student homes in Virovitica, Vukovar and Osijek, and the launch of the pilot of the e-school project. This second part of the loan that we are discussing today is the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a national co-financing project for the period from 2014 to 2020 signed by our Finance Minister Mr Zdravko Maric and the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank on 7 December last year. The loan is worth 300m euros as we have heard with the possibility of payments up to 25 years and an indicative fixed interest rate of 1,654%. The projects co-financed by the loan relate to priorities identified by the operational programme and include transport, environmental protection, health, research development infrastructure, nature protection, social infrastructure, information and communication technologies, urban regeneration and water and waste management. The Ministry of Finance contract is defined as a representative of the borrower and the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is the main partner in implementing projects and communication with the European Investment Bank regarding the allocation of sub-projects and supervision and reporting. I think we can all agree that the terms of credit are acceptable and well-defined. This funding model has proved to be an appropriate solution to ensure the national component of co-financing of projects. Just before we heard from colleagues how they see and withdraw funds from the eu funds. I'm glad to hear your colleague Panenic says it finally rolled. That's why I'd like to point out a few details on this occasion. We often say the truth that Croatia pays more than it uses EU funds. At the beginning of this month, accurate figures were published. Since its entry into the EU, Croatia has paid a total budget of 19.7 billion kuna and received 34.1 billion from the EU, with a total of 14.4 billion kuna. So 14.4 billion kuna is Croatia, so to speak. And when we put that in balance, that's more than 10% of the planned revenue of this year's budget. With the rapid absorption of European funds recorded, this amount will certainly increase. It is currently important to know that in Croatia over 80% of all investments, public investments, as well as 8 306 private companies are financed by EU grants. And that means new infrastructure, new kindergartens, new business zones, new jobs, etc. Speaking of current conditions today, we have 86 open tenders worth over $11.5 billion. For an illustration of the EU funds, I would also refer to the latest data from the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Through the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion and through the Rural Development Programme, 52% of the funds have been agreed so far, and 18,750 billion kuna has been drawn up, and nearly 10 billion kuna has been agreed so far. I'd say a little bit about the numbers and the report we have on March 31st. From the EU funds, where we have 10.727 billion euros at our disposal, the total value of the calls made is over 9 billion euros, which is 85% of the funds, while 66% is agreed and by that date, so by the end of March is paid by the users 21%. Because of this, the HDZ Club will support such a law and we believe that, as was the case at the home council Committee on Regional Development and European Funds, without a vote against also being adopted in this HS because the adoption of this law, we believe that the conditions are very well and well negotiated and that this is a stable source of co-financing of the national share. It is a guarantee of realisation and large infrastructure projects, whose value exceeds hundreds of millions of kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139442	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives, this SDP on behalf of which will be spoken by the respected representative Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The history of co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank begins long before we become a member of the EU, since 2001. The reason for the existence of the European Investment Bank as a financial institution of the EU is, above all, the financing of quality, sustainable, development projects that promote the objectives of the European Investment Bank, which foster therefore EU policies. This funding applies not only to Member States, but also to partners, partner countries and those that will become EU members, although I do not know what countries are, therefore, the objective, above all, is to strengthen the economy that then strengthens European integration. In the period from 2001 until today, the Republic of Croatia, together with the EIB, has concluded contracts worth over 2 billion euros and over 3,000 projects have been financed. EIB funds have been financed and projects related to small and medium-sized enterprises and industry, tourism and services are still financed, projects by public and private companies investing in projects based on knowledge, sustainability, infrastructure and environmental protection. Therefore, cooperation with the EIB for the Republic of Croatia is extremely important, given that very favourable conditions, financial conditions that are favourable, both priced and manual. The legislation we are discussing today concerns a financial arrangement reached between the Republic of Croatia and the EIB on the financing of the national component of the EU Funds in 2014-2020, which is precisely the second part of the 300m-euro loan. As early as December 2014, the EIB also approved a framework loan for national contribution insurance of 600m euros with the Republic of Croatia. Approved amount of indicative lending... the financing of projects stemming from the operational plan of the Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, therefore, this law too has a B mark because in that mark A, or the first, was the first 300 million euros, which was fully realised as of 2017. In a description of the objective to achieve these laws, the promoter states, the project objective and co-financing of projects in the field of transport, energy, the environment, health, research and development, nature protection, social infrastructure, information and communication technologies and urban reconstruction. Therefore, concrete projects are not listed, but they are, therefore, listed in principle. I don't know why no concrete projects are listed for reasons because there are certainly hundreds of them. The operational programme Competitiveness and Cohesion to which this loan relates comprises 30 projects in the field of transport, environmental protection and all such, which is listed as the objective of financing this loan. Is therefore the reason that some projects are not realised as a waste management centre or some other major projects, I don't think that should be the reason why we don't talk about these projects. The fact is that the first part of the loan agreed in 2014 at 300m euros was realised only in 2017. This fact actually speaks about the slowness, the trombone of the overall system of withdrawal of EU funds. It is not a sin to take a loan, especially under such favourable conditions, namely, 1.7% of fixed interest, 25 years of repayment period, and other Member States that use structural cohesion funds, use this tool, and are much more financially capacitated and healthier than the Republic of Croatia. So it's no sin to be in charge, but it's a sin not to spend that money wisely, that's what it's supposed to be. Every time in this House is spoken of in the title, so when the issue of eu funds is in the title, then it's always about the cost of eu funds, it's about the speed and the method of withdrawing eu funds, so in many of the colleagues whose senselessness is one of the main arguments about how we pay more in the budget eu than we're pulling out. And my colleague Yurichev was saying something about it, and it was never really a fact, so it should never be an argument. Croatia, it would be a tragedy if a state such as ours, one of the most underdeveloped countries of the EU, were to be in a downturn in terms of payment and withdrawal of funds from the eu budget. And if that were by chance and the fact, that is, that is, by any chance and so it would still not be an argument to the fact that eu is nonsense because so one too simple calculation does not speak of all those benefits that the EU itself brings. But again, with all the steps that the government and this ministry communicate and which are presented, it is in two-digit or even three-digit percentages in the progress of withdrawing EU funds, however, is still among the worst countries, both at the rate and at the height of the funds that are attracted by eu funds. That's because, not because you in the ministry want it that way or not because you're in the ministry not capacitated but because the whole system is actually such that it's holding us back and preventing us from being more successful at it. For this period until 2020 or 2023, I think it is already too late but it could be assumed that in the next financial framework between 2021 and 2027, which all indications are that they will be as abundant as this one, so some 11 billion euros or something less, so we could now establish a healthy foundation that we can withdraw these funds faster and simpler over the future period. And to do that, we should do something that the EU is telling us to do, which is structural reforms, especially in two sectors, which is public administration and local self-government. In order to improve the efficiency of this first one, i.e. to strengthen the capacity of this second one. A law governing state administrations without clear powers, tasks and roles... With counties that have already been bureaucratized to an evil god is not structural reform. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Strengthening the executive at local level at the expense of representative authorities is not a structural reform. A whole series of laws adopted by this House on the government's proposal concerns local self-government, related to regional development, not structural, are not structural reforms. And all of this, unfortunately, will not make the Republic of Croatia better or more capacitated in withdrawing eu funds. However, what I will say in the end, and this is what counterpart Juričev indicated, and the SDP Club will also support this law, it would be hypocritical if it were different, namely the loan agreement with the EIB, the SDP Government concluded in 2014 and this is an excellent tool in good hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139444	Thank you very much. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the respected representative Vesna Pusic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with your associates. So, out of these 300 million euros, what is the loan taking about what is the national co-financing component, it could all be about a billion and a half euros in investment if it's 20%. It is a huge amount of money, of which these 300 million should be returned and much more, it is a good thing and it should be done under favourable conditions, these institutions are therefore made up, so the European Bank of course is invented to help in these situations. So as far as this particular situation is concerned, I think it just shows that we can really have, if we prepare well, we can also have serious economic and financial benefits from EU membership. However, I would like to say a few sentences about something this law indicates. Contrary to what is usually thought, large projects are usually thought to be large projects that, where most of the funds can be withdrawn from the eu funds because large sums are tied to one project. De facto the most resources can be withdrawn for a well-developed spectrum if you want the programs in which units of local and regional self-government participate, especially local self-government. It's something we don't have a fund for. We have this famous contest in the ministry but we do not have a fund that would guarantee that every project of the local self-government unit qualified for European funds automatically has guaranteed national participation as much as necessary. And these are people dear, this is how countries that were most successful in this have withdrawn the largest amount of funds because they have made domestic funds, provided in their budget funds to monitor local self-government units projects. If you think seriously, look at these municipalities and cities, there are some 5.6 standard projects that are usually dealt with. It's water, sewerage, roads, some school, kindergarten or something, waste management, it's classic projects that almost all units of local self-government reflect or need. So make a prototype of these 5, 6, 7 how many projects are already decided for units of local self-government that are then only adapting to the financial size of that unit and ensuring at the state level a joint fund in our budget, a joint fund that would guarantee that anyone qualified for European money has secured domestic monitoring. So he has secured that 20, 25, 30 depending on which project is percentage. This would not only allow us to make a lot more money with much less money, but it would allow us to maximise the use of the European funds in Croatia. And this law that you are working for large projects and facts, namely the whole decision on cooperation with the European Bank and the fact that it is necessary for large projects and secured for large projects is an additional I would say crown proof, that it is absolutely necessary to provide for projects of local self-government units, so for municipalities and cities. I ask you to think about it and go, we will GLAS and HSU will support what you have proposed today, but go in that direction, that if you need this kind of tracking for large projects understandably and logically that it needs even more for municipalities and cities, and these funds can triple, triple local budgets. Therefore, with relatively small resources secured at the level of the state in such a specialised fund, which requires nothing but that the project qualify for European funds. As soon as you got the European funds, the state was following you. Which means that for 20 or 30, between 20 and 30% of the money buys 100% of the project. And I think with this you're showing that it's really necessary for municipalities and cities, so I'm not polluting with this proposal, and I think it should definitely go with it, but it further indicates that this same model is necessary for municipalities and cities, so I suggest you go in that direction anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139446	Thank you very much. We go to an individual debate, first of all, a respected representative, Ivan Lovrinović, has no right to discuss, loses his right to debate, and the next debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, who is not present either, loses the right to debate, and next, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139447	Thank you very much, here's when we talk about the loan that Croatia will raise to have its own component. In order to achieve, I always remember the words today and the praises of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who always mentions the surplus, everything is a surplus, and besides he didn't have enough funds in the budget, it couldn't be possible to have this money co-financed means these projects from the national component, which says that this credit debt will be at least 25 years old, because how many years in fact this will be a citizen's duty. So, where is this surplus, the main question is now why we have not only this surplus, but we only have this national component meaning by 2021 means it is 15% with the fact that we need to know that and.../incomprehensible/... that cohesion funds will be reduced means that it will be 30 percent, and of course that this triba and strong and strong Croatian voice that Croatia does not finance this triba in the amount of the component of the domestic 30%, if other countries that used cohesion funds paid 30%, and we are still at the bottom after the withdrawal of funds. This is the fact that I was also saying to Jurovo because it is simply not possible for Croatia to treat the colony as if this only draws money and these funds that are, it is evident that there are also local self-governments having a huge problem from the city of Rijeka mainly now that the city of Split will have a problem, so that this surplus is not visible in the way the prime minister represents and praises this Croatia, but it is also visible by the results of withdrawing funds from EU funds, and especially when we talk about the meaning of half a billion kuna of unplanned, this half billion kuna irregularities that will have to be paid by our citizens. Half a billion kuna in projects is not a small amount, and 260 injuries mean we have.../incomprehensible/... meaning the legality of this implementation process from these funds. 679 even a lot more here. I would only briefly once again, I am sorry that the facts come out when there is no Prime Minister Plenkovic, who, of course, in the diplomatic dictionary, created him and thus behaves to simply deceive under these lights of the assembly, deceives the Croatian public because the results are simply visible and why we are raising this loan. They saw that we have no agriculture, that we have a farm that simply turns out that in Croatia we have a surplus of dairy producers. We don't have a dairy surplus because we've never produced less milk than we do now, and even now, we've signed a contract. Not the contract, but we have signed this protocol with the People's Republic of China how much milk we have for 2, 3 cheeses, we don't know how much we're going to do over the year 2 or 3 cheeses, and I don't know if they've agreed on how they're going to export it, these tankers' sails of China, we're going to triangulate enough capacity, China, how much milk products we're going to produce. Today I have also proved that this is mainly done for the milk produced in Serbia, Imlex, the milk that is essentially opened up fictitiously in Sinj its milk and that milk they essentially distribute to the EU area, and of course the Republic of Serbia will now help to isolate that milk, which is produced in Serbia, to distribute in China and that is true, is that it would be different then these projects and funds would be withdrawn from EU funds, then it would not be a surplus in the need not to raise credit to 25 years, then there would be no problem that half a billion kuna irregularities would have to pay our citizens and, of course, that we would all have to choose together not to be 30% of the national component, and that would mainly, these projects would be the most burdened by local self-government, so that this story of decentralisation would be rejected as a boomerang jell will not be enough, and again in the great number of the cities in which we have made in the city, and the city of Milan. We see in Split a huge problem because of the legal failure of certain property legal problems, which can also lead the city of Split to a problem, Rijeka and many other local self-governments. I would only talk about this finally, the government says that the surplus is only 17% of EU funds from the estimated 10.5 billion to 2021, we are at the bottom of this, after withdrawing funds from the EU, which says it is not so great and wonderful, and yet again I repeat and testify 2/3 of the empty Republic. We don't have the courage, so, to use our national resources, here only after all these discussions, to go to one of the most important issues of sovereign, certain, that means an exclusive economic belt, will only go in the night, of course, floor, to hide from the public, where we would have to protect our territory. Our sea, this is our obligation to future generations, not to use some strange beak from ZERP. One, we didn't even use it, one means, and we even suspended it to get to Tajani and that the Italians actually profited. Fascist one and I like to emphasize whether he wants my Dalmatia and Istra to be Italian, which is incorrect, but because of the adjectives simply all the story that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic would simply invite him to take off his glasses, to wipe his glasses and look at the reality in 2/3 of the RH. He's forcing the commissioners to sign the land to take over I don't know who, the Russians, he's just forcing him, he's just acting so arrogantly that he didn't act like Mao Ce-tung either, and here he was recently the Prime Minister of People's China, and that's what his colleagues in HDZ know, I'm today and... I'm sorry there's no more shepherds in my shirt, so they said we don't have simple, what we have, we have agriculture and tourism. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have one problem, we have a problem that reduces our domestic production, mainly food products, and our tourism is growing and that's one of the biggest problems, and why? This is because we have not used EU funds and we have entered the EU on our knees, and now we have come into a position that we have been brought from the desert to the point of credit, without being able to secure from our own budget funds for, meaning, our own or national component. the national, regional and local, self-government will also be in a huge problem, especially if it passes that the national component must be from 15% to 30% which will be even more significant and even more difficult. Here, I hope it will stop, but when I see the behaviour and deception of the public in a way that represents or presents to the public the government of the Republic of Croatia as if it's all blooming, but it's not so, it's just not, we're simply from education, and from agriculture, and relations with our neighbours we go subserviently, we don't solve our problems, we're simply being put in a position to be in charge of the surplus. Now what is this surplus to have a national component for these EU funds projects, I don't know how Prime Minister Plenkovic will explain it, but I repeat, the man came from diplomacy, of course, there's this incubator who, from the incubator who manages the Republic and the president and the president and the Prime Minister and the former prime minister of course is from the incubator of a man who has enormous power on it, it's Budimir Lončar and of course they know how to do it, very well present it, it's a long-standing experience that's being transferred from the former state, and in this way they know it's well presented and it's simply that, I don't know, we have a free and independent RH, unfortunately, more and more empty, I'm expected to find hope in the Republic, and that the fields will be plowed, that there will be no grassed fields, such as Sinjishing language that they don't say that they't say to the people, that they't say that they't say that they're the people, but they'll say that they'll say that they're to say that they're not to the people. So that's just what they came out of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139448	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139449	Dear colleague Bulj, you've elaborated nicely, so this situation around the national component where we're in debt, we're in debt, so we're in debt by 2042. where the government will owe us 300 million euros, and the prime minister is talking about the surplus all morning, where the money is. You also pointed out the problem of irregularities that we have, which I will also talk about in my debate, means half a billion kuna irregularities. You even said that there are 200 and some illegal costs, there are not many more, 689 illegal costs, so bad management and bad management of Croatia means withdrawing funds from eu funds, we do not realize our full potential. And certainly as a political option, as MOST, we will neither allow this national component for Croatia to increase in the European Parliament, given the potential that we give to Western countries in the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139450	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bulj will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, Prime Minister Plenkovic, when he spoke about the problem, means dairy production and products in the Republic of Croatia where we do not produce half of our products, Prime Minister Plenkovic says that this is simply the interest of China on us, i.e. China on its own interests and means we have a dairy that is open to the fictional Republic of Serbia and it is only for imports, we are like having bananas, that Croatia exports bananas. So will this milk coming from Serbia and Republika Srpska. So he simply didn't work there for our farmers domestic production, the development of dairy production, and so on, he simply favours Serbian dairy production. And exports. So the whole story she was telling here today just didn't leave an impression and mostly because he was boasting about the surplus and we're raising... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139452	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, please. Comrade Thunder, it's your turn, if you want, if you don't, no, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139453	I'm thinking deeply, yes. So I said that in this replica I referred to my colleague Bulju that we simply have a situation to raise a loan and we also have messages that are being sent from the very top of the government, we saw that Prime Minister Plenkovic had today in his prepared notebook means messages that he sends about that the situation in Croatia has never been better, that we have a surplus, that GDP is growing even though GDP is much smaller than for example. During the government of Tihomir Oreskovic, it means it slows down GDP but it is clear when Croatia manages the axis of HNS and HDZ, means Ivan Vrdoljak, Andrej Plenkovic, Milan Bandic, Milorad Pupovac that we cannot expect anything better, regardless of these PR messages coming from the very top of the state and to the space the prime minister receives in the media to send these messages. Today, I was not allowed by the President of the Parliament to express my breach of the Rules of Procedure because the prime minister claimed that no media in Croatia is under the control of the ruling party and we all know how HRT works, which people are analysts on HRT. I've just sent a memo to the Ethics Commission and asked for an indication of the activity on public television, Professor. Pere Maldini, proposed by HDZ, means an ethical commission and the man is now an analyst, means a court commentator that is always being called from HRT to say last night that HDZ will surely win 6 seats. It is this public television, but I was not allowed to speak at all today about what was in the spirit of the Communist party of Yugoslavia whose HDZ is a spiritual successor, and yet the most members of the communist party of Yugoslavia have just crossed into HDZ. And if we look at the people who make up the backbone of the Croatian government today from Mr. Plenkovic, who wrote the work on Cardeli, we all know from which background he comes from Mr. Bozinović to our chief state inspector, Andrija Milkulić, it is clear what kind of people are doing, and this is exactly the incubator that you spoke about, Mr. Bulj, incubator Budimir Lonacar and the team who have set us up with all these people who have been running unfortunately Croatian long years. And only in that short period was Croatia free but it will be again. Then we managed to do some things, we lifted the office of Stjepan Mesic, so we opened the archives, but HDZ shut them down again. But I'm going to come back now because I see that the chairman is visibly nervous, so I'm going to come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139454	It's because you're talking about things that have nothing to do with the subject, as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139455	So, yes, yes, they do, they have something to do with the subject because for such bad results are the responsible administrations of this structure. So we now have 15% co-financing in this programme of European funds 2014 to 2020, and that national component will now be financed from the loan. And what we're going to fight hard means that during this period in 2021 to 2027, that national component is going to rise to 30%. I am convinced that our euro-parliamentaries will surely fight hard in Brussels for that component to remain 15% and that more funds are being allocated to those countries affected by emigration. There is primarily Croatia. We are investing in educating young people, and then we have this skilled workforce going to Western countries, going to Germany, going to Ireland, and we believe that this requires increasing the resources available to these countries affected by the emigration of Croatia, which is very affected, although Prime Minister Plenkovic does not want to see it. He sees the situation in Croatia with some pink glasses and that is what is absolutely incomprehensible to us. As for the realisation of European funds, only 17% were realised there. I once asked Mr. Sokol's candidate for the eu elections on one show because he's a professor at the university, when your student would solve the test 17% you'd give him. He didn't have an answer to that. So what kind of assessment can be given to Croatia if only 17% of the funds are realised, it is clear that the rating is insufficient. It's not even close to that, I was a professor, so that's what students ask me, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, So you have the best will not to knock him down, you can't give him a grade enough. And then when we take even more that we have that half a billion kuna irregularities, it means half a billion kuna irregularities from Pelješko Bridge to Dubrovnik Airport where there will also be irregularities and these 689 illegal costs of which my colleague Bulj spoke. So it is clear that European funds are being mismanaged, as much as the PR of the Prime Minister, Minister Žalac, who has given huge funds to certain daily papers, we all know about these contracts that exist, we will not now name them here, he has tried to convince us that the Croatian government is doing an excellent job. It is a lie and deception, which Croatian citizens see. So I'm convinced this kind of policy will eventually come to an end. Here's where my colleague Bulj had a debate before me, he had a despot, one criminal named Eve Sanader told him he'd come to an end and it was over. You ran around Ivo Sanader in the blue shrubs and fellow Boric probably, so you called him, he was an untouchable leader. And now what's Ivo Sanader coming to? On several squares of the prison cell, that says one commentator can't even look at the second half of the champion league because at 10 he has to go to sleep. That's what he came to. And that's what the ones you're calling now will come to. If they don't, you'll give them up yourself if they get a bad election result. I will never forget when you brought down Prime Minister Oreshkovic's government, we were driving in my colleague Bulj's car to the south and calling current Minister Oleg Butkovic Miru Bulja and saying, "Let's change," set up as prime minister whoever you want. And we say we signed for the disbandment of the Parliament, we're going to the new elections for the first time, we can't fool the citizens. And says current Minister Butkovic we'll put everything on Karamark. And until yesterday, he defended and voted mean and supported the collapse of Prime Minister Oreskovic. So he supported Karamark in the consulting affair. This is your way of dealing with both politics and people and morals, but this way of ruling will eventually come to an end, and you must be aware of that, but then it will be a lot harder for you than you think. Then it'll be a lot harder for you than you think. It won't just go away because that dissatisfaction in the people of Tinj, it grows, every day, people are now, because it just happens one apathy, dissatisfaction when they see what's going on here and here in the Croatian Parliament, what's going on, but people will realize that they have to do something, that they can't just be dissatisfied, but that they have to do certain things to change it because there's a key in them. So you want them to be defensive, you want as many people to move out of Croatia as possible because your party army will go to elections. But there are still enough people in Croatia who agree with this T-shirt that my colleague Bulj wore today, it's better to be a choban than a party sheep. They don't want people to be your party sheep anymore, they don't want people to support your policy, so you're the only ones who benefit from it and the citizens have nothing but damage from you and your policies. And that's what's going to have to change, and we're certainly going to be a strong advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139456	We've got two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139457	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about eu funds and when we talk about what is an important example, we said Pelješki bridge, let it be built, but the fact is that we could also talk more about it that we, others, are not us, if we had preserved our companies, here is my colleague, Boric, who knows better, that they were not afraid of tunnels to harm these companies such as the Designer, Viaductor, Lavčević, who were building in other countries and bringing profits to us. We have to be built by the Chinese today, and they're pulling that money out. That's what they know best about. So imagine how much money only went to paint the tunnel. And now, of course, Calmeta is the main man of Andrej Plenkovic. It's who it's gonna be. It's who you're always gonna be. So that's a bad message. First you destroyed the companies that were to build the Pelješki bridge, Croatian companies. But let it be built again, but destroying Croatian companies is a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139458	Next replica, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139459	Comrade Bulj, it is clear here what policy has been implemented and what has been done. I think that many today have not even understood what you have done and what message you have sent, so it is not a problem that milk is imported from other countries in Croatia, but that in Sinj there was an investment that was represented to serve the revitalisation of the meaning of livestock farming in that area and in fact it is a fictitious dairy that serves to import milk from other countries that are not in the EU and that our prime minister says that we will export milk to China and at the same time reduces our livestock stock, reduces production, reduces milk production. So in this sense, it is clear that it is a lie and a deception and I would always be more prone to Western democracy countries than to communist China and to despot Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139460	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139461	Thank you very much, so Professor Grmoy, you asked what grade to give to the student if he solves 17% of the test, and I would ask the professors when you give the student a test if you take after 10 minutes or wait 45 minutes and then take his exam, look at how much he's solved and give him a grade. These funds are available by 2020, i.e. +3 to 2023, so far we have 85% bids, 66% contracted and 21% charged. According to this, let's wait 2023 because we know that we used 100% of the funds for the previous one, and then we're going to give an assessment to both the government and the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139462	The answer, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139463	So, colleagues, it's clear that it's been a long time here, very little time, very little time left, if the student solved in that time only 17% I don't know how unless he prescribes, and here the copying won't help us can solve much more than it did in this period, period solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139464	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139465	Thank you very much, Vice President, so here's something I want to say about this law that we need to confirm the loan between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank because the fact is that some people don't, some MPs don't want to respect what we're talking about and what the subject simply uses their 10 minutes behind them known theories that try to show themselves as great scientists in all things have nothing. So when a man hears them, he just sometimes wonders today if we really have the space to separate the truth from the lie and what in all that channel and the forest we can even, that they create this thing and that it's worth learning. Because the European Investment Bank is not the first time in Croatia, we have heard already in the presentation of clubs that we have the opportunity to be part of such an organization which is practically owned by all EU countries and has the task of helping with the resources of everything that does good for every country in terms of projects. So I can personally say that I was also a state official, assistant, secretary of state who dealt with infrastructure issues right in the coastal counties. We had valuable loans to the European Investment Bank and all these projects today stand both in municipalities and in the towns of Zagor and Cetinska krajina and Knin and down from Cavtat to Umag and throughout the Republic of Croatia. In this way to observe life, some kindergarten that was created in a municipality, which was then made possible by the state with its resources and that bank with its share of the funds that the state would return in 20 years is nothing more than what they do and everyone at home with their ambitions or projects. When we want to build a house or our own apartment, we're in charge and we're trying to get that apartment in 20 or 30 years, and we're having it now, and we're giving it back 30 or 20 or 15 years. So all of these stories who is who, who is better or worse, have nothing to do with what is good intention to contract the share of the Republic of Croatia in co-financing projects that will pass in competitions, on public calls and that will happen in the Republic of Croatia by 2023. And I think that really after this much funding, it's not a little bit 4.76 billion with this bank alone we have and the development of the Council of Europe CeB bank which also helps the Republic of Croatia and many cities and municipalities, ask the mayors and mayors what it means when it gets 10 million kuna from some loan so it doesn't have to give 10 million kuna from its own municipal or city budget. But they knew that in Metkovic too, so they immediately removed this team as soon as they saw who they were dealing with, after 4 years of aus means go away, now they can go to Brussels if they want to, so that this team knows who knows how to use European funds and who knows how to use all kinds of other help that they don't have to pay from their own resources and all this goes to the benefit of the citizens. And all these other stories I say can be for those who are ignorant or don't know. As well as the story you don't manage the funds, we manage the funds, and there's a difference in 2019 compared to what we inherited in 2015 or what we inherited only or when we started, it's visible. But if someone is telling me today as one of the local self-government leaders that it's easy to make a recovery, I don't know a dump that costs 30 or 40 million kuna, that it's just a snap on a finger like they say at MOSTU and solve it in five minutes, it's not like that, it's a simple lie. Because many projects also need to be prepared, and when the procurement is done then there is a realisation, the withdrawal is the last stop in the whole story. And the state of the funds realised today is much, much more than the ones that are constantly being mentioned here today, but the only question of paying as a final act is something that comes after you've got the used permission and passed all the evaluations the way they're supposed to be. And if that's an orderly job, that's what only the controls that come up after a few years after you've finished the first projects where everything has to fit what's been written somewhere again. And we're learning some kind of order, not stories where everything is easy to look at or by thinking or by muddling all of our colleagues around us because that way we're something like big, and you're staying small or you don't know anything. Learn something at MOSTU, you've been to local elections, you've got two local self-governments, it's a great success HDZ I think has about half of those 250 or more local self-governments and probably people see something happening there. There's a reason for that. And you will never recover from that day, from the day the prime minister told you to prepare solutions there and three solutions that I know about the resignations of your ministers. You've had twice the chance to help, to do everything you know here, to do it with the HDZ with this government, but you'd rather run off in opposition after six months and say your finger in your ear and talk nicely to everyone to understand us. Gentlemen, responsibility and authority commits, it is not an escape from responsibility. So you can keep saying whatever you want, it's up to us to deliver in 2021 or by the end of 2020 to deliver some result we promised. Whether it will satisfy you or your members or your voters I don't know, but I'm sure the citizens understand who they want or who wants them well and who wants to work for them. Who every day tries to make sure that what we have as a law today, as you are in charge of the city council, so the chief wants to take credit, so the council gives him consent, so the government wants to take this loan, and the council will give their opinion. This is a good thing, a very favourable interest, so far I think the most favourable thing we've ever received, and that's a manual that says that for 25 years, I certainly don't know how to recover 100 million kuna very quickly in 3 or 4 years, we'll be able to solve many of these projects. If you are today telling citizens of Krk who are doing a 400 million kuna project that you are against taking 85% of the funds they received from the funds and ensuring 15% even that almost those for the Badaves get, means without their own resources, to get the modern, state-of-the-art drain system, water supply, and then you don't understand it, and that's why Metkovic replaced you, right on the first term, because you didn't understand what the citizens told you when they gave you the chance, they gave you the opportunity to make that city better. You've been replaced, and they've given someone else a chance. So with this government, you had the chance, you wanted to go yourself, and now we're listening to the bile, we're listening to some anger, anxiety, disappointment with your own business activities that don't result in anything other than trying to insult all these colleagues sitting here so you don't look good to yourself. This is not the task of this together, we are talking about the EUR 300 million we want or can return in the next 25 years and which need to offset the funds of the fund that the Republic of Croatia is taking over through all programmes. And I think there's nothing wrong with it if we can do it, and to understand the surplus then we're talking about a consolidated surplus of all levels from local, regional to state. Because there's a state budget, and there's a consolidated budget, and you have to read it. So don't confuse the concepts, don't say the lies to make us look good and lead the citizens in the wrong direction because it's clear that in these six years we've pulled 14 billion more, it's 14 billion more opportunities than we've had or would have had if we hadn't entered the EU and whoever's talking is going to be denied at the end of the whole financial period when that percentage is going to be much, much higher than it is worth much more. And when you see Croatia which is a major construction site where both student homes and dormitories and schools and halls are built, gardening in countless municipalities and cities, when you see ports, when you see everything we can build from infrastructure, the biggest part is because we get most of the funds from EU funds and we don't have to give them from our own national funds. Those who understand it will see it in the field, and those who do not understand it will never understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139466	We have two replicas, he's the first respected representative, he's the first respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139467	Dear fellow Boric, I see that here the entire apparatus of Mr. Bukarica's Assembly is in the service of HDZ, it's nice to see this about what you're saying, agree with yourself, I'm too good a polumist for you to demigrantize with me, because you first said that MOST was expelled from the government, and then you gave one counter-thesis that MOST escaped responsibility. So make a deal with yourself whether we're out of the government or we're out of the government so that you can pollemize with me, and don't place contradictory thesis. So, and you, if you were doing something good for Croatia, you were doing just fine for yourself, you were an assistant to the ministry when they were afraid of tunnels and that's what bothers you. Mr. Bacic was carrying black bags, so Mr. Shucker was part of those structures. And those are the facts. [[Employee: Dear Representative Boric, answer.]] That's the facts. [[Intruder: colleague.]] It's you, Mr. Shucker. [[Intruder: colleague.]] were one of the key Sanaders [[You've run out of time.]] Guys, that's right. [[You've run out of time, Mr. Grmoy.]] So you were Sanadar's men. [[- Stop talking. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] And you can see it. [[I'm giving you a warning...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139468	...because you're violating the Rules of Procedure. Come on, let's not throw ourselves out of the bench. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for hurting Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, my colleague Grmoy, has kept lying, and every time he mentions me, he turns out to be the last liar in this assembly. He knows well that I didn't carry anyone's bags, at least Evey Sanader, that Mr. Thunder should know and he knows, but he's deliberately slandering me to try To draw up some political point. [[Intruder: Good fellow Bačić, er...]] Mr. Grmoya should be Mr. Vice President. He should take care of himself and his family when he speaks and accuses others of slander. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, please don't take the time, don't exceed the time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139470	So, I've already warned my colleagues about this, please. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Šuker, and pardon the response of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139471	I have to, I have to answer to this one who's as good at pollemizing no, those when they wanted to escape then they made a move to kick them out, that's how it goes, so you see this one and yourself that you wanted to be in the shade of opposition, finger in the ear and not think about anything, and here it turns out very important even though I sometimes remain surprised that an intellectual, professor of history who taught children etc., uses such a dictionary and difamy of individuals here with some lies and untruths. It is allowed form of political struggle, but it is so below the normal level to say that in Metkovic, you were quickly understood and driven immediately by the people because you said you would stay in Metkovic, and then you went straight to Zagreb, and it is not enough for you either, you would also be in Brussels. So much for you, if you knew anything and you could probably do something about it. Me and you can go all over the coast and point my finger where I am. Had your moments of some kind [[Intruder: Thank you.]] where we helped, and you show what you left behind. [[Intruder: Thank you, time, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139472	The last replica, the next replica of the respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139473	Thank you very much, my colleague Boris has people who simply cannot stand to be made in this Croatia, so when he sees Croatia taking advantage of its institutional opportunities to secure, under the very cheap means of these interest, the means by which certain projects will be financed to withdraw funds from, which Croatia can withdraw from the EU, then simply fall into a trance of lies by making up everything together. Therefore, there is no need to pay any attention to this because the people are left behind, not words, and in particular false words, works are there, in works are enjoyed by the citizens of the Republic, and lies are enjoyed only by those who place them, but not by them for long.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139474	Answer to the respected representative, Boris, please let's not yell from the bench, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139475	Look, so they came today with the intention of provoking all day long from the current clock until now because they don't have any other policies. Challenges, be important to yourself, don't matter to actions, actions are what remains of people, citizens, and this loan will allow. I say there's nothing left behind, they'll just remember them one day when they leave this scene for nothing. That's how it was when they first had a chance, that's how it was the second time, and that's how it's gonna end. And all these other stories, I'm worth so much, I'm worth this much to the citizens. So it's up to us to talk about good things, let them deal with what they're dealing with, the lies, the lies, the lies, the inventions, because that's the only thing that's true for them, the only thing that's true for them, is that they'll be evaluated as well as in the next election, because they're simply what you can expect from them except that, as they do today, they insult you, as well as the chairman and everyone, and then they're important to themselves, and they think it's a contribution. this country. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139476	You're the one who broke the Rules of Procedure? What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139477	The article was injured in 238, so Boric, a colleague, responded and commented on us as parliamentary representatives, and did not refer to his colleague Šuker and on the subject of this debate, which is a loan, and you did not, I did not hear that you had warned him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139478	No, he was responding to a colleague of Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139479	No, no, he was talking, he was looking, he was facing me, not toward his colleague Schooker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139480	Where someone was looking was irrelevant, I estimate he wasn't hurt. Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, interesting.]] The last, last replica of the respected representative, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139481	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, my colleague, Boris, for listening carefully to your debate, and I agree with you that these loans are extremely favourable on the one hand, and on the other hand they allow projects financed by European funds to be implemented. In this way, over the past 6 years since Croatia's EU member in Croatia invested 14 billion kuna more than Croatia has invested in the fund as an EU membership. And what is important to highlight is that these funds today invest around 80% of all investments in Croatia from the European Funds and there would be no such funds for such investments. Especially such investments are a lot in Dubrovnik-Neretva County which my colleague Bulj should know, but he obviously doesn't care or know, but in, therefore, in Dubrovnik-Neretva County he is currently spending 5 billion kuna investment that is partly invested [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They're funding just like these loans. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139482	Next, here's the answer, next is the response of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139483	My colleague Bačić, I know not only in Dubrovnik, from Istria to Dubrovnik, from Umag to Vukovar, to Varazdin, everything that can be built, is built by these means against which MOST is, so they are against it, they want citizens to always be in some reverse position, or that we are not making any progress as a society at all so that they look good to themselves, because they did the same thing in Metkovic, they haven't moved for 4 years, people have moved them away from what you go somewhere else, we will replace you not, and be what you want, but in Metkovic you will no longer take care of the citizens. This state helped the city first through the Income Tax Act, so now through numerous projects so that there is simply a difference between people, I don't believe that people see it and that it will show in every election, not only of those who are now coming, but of all the following that this is not a place in Croatian politics, especially not at this highest level because they didn't understand the place, or the mission, or the reason they were there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139484	Thank you very much. Now finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MostA Independent Lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139485	Thank you very much, dear secretary, after this debate and the praises of colleagues Bačić and club presidents and all of HDZ, we must repeat a few more things once again, and all day, Prime Minister Plenkovic boasted about the surplus, that this credit debt is from EUR 300 million to EUR 25 that the citizens will pay, and that Croatia is paying for withdrawing funds from the EU funds at the start of Malta. That's a fact, we need to talk about it, and all the good things that my colleague Boric says about what you've done so far, I'm just going to list you with a few facts. 2/3 Croatians are empty, and you as assistant secretary need to know that you were assistant Kalmeti when they were afraid of tunnels at that time have committed major crimes against companies such as Viaduct, Constructor, Lapcevic, they were supposed to build the Pelješki bridge and create additional value because they were doing it in other countries, the Middle East, Africa and many people were leaving from below, their wives stayed here, giving birth to children and thus creating their families. And now you're not just going people, you're going everyone, and the Chinese are coming to build us a bridge. Yeah, I'm up for the bridge, but I'd like to be done by Croatian companies that have been recognized. What was the world brand in all countries and you know it well, and now you say that the prime minister here boasts of the surplus, and that our own component must raise a 300m-euro loan to 25 years. And you boast that Croatia is 14 billion euros full of I don't know what not, billions, billions, so the Croatian state, gentlemen, has no gram of gold, you sold gold. You sold the gold, too. 15 tonnes, my colleague Shuker knows best about it, you have swept Croatia's barns. You didn't ask the Croatian citizens, you did the barns, you scared the tunnels, you destroyed the companies, two-thirds of Croatia went and mine, this mayor, his wife came across half a billion I don't know the kuna, the bag. How could she not find someone else's wife? Where are your jobs from? Do you really think, colleague Bačić, you mentioned me earlier, I did not, that everything shines in Croatia? Well, you've opened the Ravcha-Drvenik tunnel five times. You've eaten more lamb. And the damages made it end, but I don't know all the authorities that came. So you know how much it costs? How many people, your insurance? Here comes Bebić ex, your friend Jambo now who supports Metkovic, who impoverished him, who sold pickles, corn in the Homeland War and cabbage for 10 times the price. You're too. You gentlemen are boasting about how great the results have been made. So let's get serious. Let's get serious. The workers of Lavčević, the Designer, the smugglers, were the most professional people from whom they taught other countries, the Koreans learned from us. They learned from these people. You destroyed all these people, you chased them, you left them behind, you left them nowhere. You left them nowhere. And now you're bragging about how you pulled this loan. And where did you get it, buddy... That we're against these loans? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're saying you have a surplus, why didn't you secure it in the budget when you had a surplus? Well, you've washed the barns. You've swept away, there's no gold grams of Croatia. Just out of profits, how much gold has collected from that time, which is, we could now have this amount and to secure our own component in the EU funds. In that price difference. In that price difference. It's less important for me to have the name and name of a fellow Shucker or anyone, but the fact that we have to talk about facts, we have to talk about young people leaving, we have to talk about having kindergartens when you mention it, so what children's kindergartens are going to do when we don't hear children cry. There's no pay for the kids. Empty. We don't have a radiologist. Here's my thematic session tomorrow. I asked for it in Split-Dalmatia County. We don't have a pediatrician and a radiologist. I mean, you invite people to give birth and to create new lives, which is good and should be positive and send a message. You boast of the praises of all in Croatian flowers at the moment. Well, that's not true. We don't have a pediatrician in Sinj, one. 50,000 inhabitants. Radiologist. In the Neretva Valley, so look what the problem is, God forbid it happens anywhere else. Well, the county doesn't care about that. They're receiving decentralised funds, but you know what the county does? The county of decentralised funds employs its own arrests, lawyers, these, those that are unnecessary, instead of doctors and specialization. And now we have a huge problem, we don't have a doctor anymore. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139486	The final word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will now be respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't. final on behalf of the club [[/Intruder: Come on, please stop the bench.]] nor speak of the agenda itself, namely counterpart Branka and colleague Josip spoke about the scale of these loans, but she encouraged me to this final word on behalf of the club, the debate between my colleagues Grumoja and my colleagues Bulja. [[Intruder: I'll start giving you all warnings.]] Obviously, we do not really live in the same world either you do not see or do not follow or know what is going on in Croatia. There are problems in Croatia, and we don't run away from these problems and we solve them. Today, when we talk about this agenda point, we are talking about the means that allow Croatia to benefit from EU funds, and I just said that over the past 6 years 14 billion kunas have been invested in many projects, in roads, in bridges, in schools, in kindergartens, in different water supply and disposal systems, etc., etc., in waste management and numerous other projects. In order for us to do this, the loans we are discussing today were necessary and they are welcome and that there would be no such loans, neither these funds nor 80% of public investment in Croatia today would be financed by EU funds. Comrade Bulj, that for a time you were involved a little more in national politics, but you did not, you slept somewhere down in Sinj, you were dealing with something else and you did not know what was going on in Croatia. HDZ did not destroy construction firms in Croatia, only one who does not know, who has no idea, who does not have information. In fact, these companies have been created on numerous loans and by the European Investment Bank and the Central Bank of the Council of Europe and on the funds of the World Bank and of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we have financed enormously many projects that have allowed these companies that you have spoken of. And the hydropower and the viaduct and the constructor, you know, Mr. Bull, when they failed? When HDZ came down from power. When a number of investments were to continue, in the transport sector in Croatia, in the railway, when highway construction was to continue, when the construction of the Pelješko bridge was to be continued, that these investments were not halted, that there was then wisdom and wisdom in those governments of Zoran Milanovic and the SDP governments, it was then to continue public works at the time of the crisis. Today, they'd be building me a Peles bridge, not the Chinese. When the Pelješki bridge was stopped, when the stopped investments in road construction came into bankruptcy and three major Croatian construction companies, you should know this by your colleague Bulj. But you do not know much, and in everything you participate, you argue in everything. You spoke earlier about Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Metkovic. Here's a colleague of Grmoja, yesterday, invited him and Mr Petrov to Metkovic Metkovce to meet with the holders of your list for the European Parliament. Do you know how many Mets have come to you? 59. And last night, we had a HDZ in that same Metkovic in the pre-election rally, 60 people stayed outside the hall because they couldn't get into a crowded hall. We have more people outside in the rain than you do and three days you invite them over the radio to come and hang out with you. And fellow Bull, when you talk about us, when you talk about our achievements, about our behaviors, how is it that now all of a sudden you are becoming a great Eurofil and now you are suddenly running for the European Parliament? I am holding on and I believe that you are doing this for reasons that you would often honor us much better with 60 thousand kunas, so if you want to see your problems in Sinj than with this humble salary of 16 thousand kunas you receive as a parliamentary representative in the Croatian Parliament. Was that why you ran for the European Parliament? Is that why you would see much better the problems of a small man in Sinjska krajina, in the Cetina region, than you can see from this chair here was that the reason? By yesterday, it was all Brusselsan fathers who had run for office and who had even talked about European policies, and now you have found yourself entering those same waters and wearing those same Brussels suits and walking around Brussels. When you speak, when you perform, and when you slander us in this way in Croatia to the democratic community, be sure that we will return you in the same way. Not because we would like to, but simply for the reason that we should remove all the slanders that you and your colleague Grmoy spend every day at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community. There's data, there's arguments we'll always give you. Not always, because we don't have time or need for it, but from time to time comes a moment when a colleague Bulj and his colleague Grmoy should say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139488	Thank you. Time's up. A fellow Bolt had a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139489	So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You did not respond to the chairman again. Article 238, my colleague Bačić did not discuss the subject at all. He was talking about us hanging out in Metkovic. Comrade Bacic, I see you've counted every man, and that only shows how afraid you are. And people at our families don't have to come, they come to you in spite of you, and your parents have to come because you promise them jobs. And you have something to fear from your colleague Bačić and count and review the footage and every photo of who he was.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139490	Dear Grmo Comrade Thunderbolt, you've exceeded your time. [[/Grmoya Intruder: Check everything. You've got something...]] A fellow Thunderbolt, and I let you talk. You haven't talked about the subject at all. You haven't talked about the subject at all. I never interrupted you, nor warned you, nor anything. Therefore, accept, accept, if you do so, that others will perform as well. I won't punish you. I didn't punish either of them. Comrade Bulj, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? I hope he's really hurt in something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139491	What you're hoping for, I don't know. The Rules of Procedure of 238, where a gentleman on behalf of the Bačić Club spoke about where I was and what I was running for. Yeah, I ran to Tajani ran for... [[What does that have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure?]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139492	Now I'm really giving you another warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139493	Tajani and his friends take those mandates. And who will go to defend Croatian interests from us, a little bit less in Brussels, here's the problem with me running. Your problem is that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139494	Your time is up, and you've been warned. Comrade Bulj, please sit down. Comrade Bull, I'll take your word for today. I'm taking your word for today. All right, now let's move on. Now I'm moving on. Next thing you know, I'm closing the debate, and we're voting. [[Why did you take my roar? Now call the guards, feel free to take me out here.]] about this point when the conditions are obtained. [[Why did you take my roar? For what?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139495	Final draft law confirming the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the national co-financing project of the EU Funds between 2014 and 2020 BE, second reading, P.Z. Number 627. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, but I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 108 for and 16 abstentions have been adopted by the Law confirming the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the national co-financing project of the EU Funds in the period from 2014 to 2020 BE.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139496	We are going to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 628 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, read first. The law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union has been governed by the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union and the legislation in the domestic legal order is transported by the legislative acts of the European Union in this legal area. The law adopted by the Croatian Parliament at a session held on 9 July 2010, which took effect on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union on 1 July 2013. This law regulates the forms of judicial cooperation prescribed by the European Union legislation: a European arrest warrant and surrender procedure, an order to secure property or evidence, a European order for obtaining evidence, the recognition of the execution of orders to withdraw property or objects, the recognition of execution of decisions on fines, the recognition of the execution of sentences imposed on prisons or measures involving the confiscation of freedom, the recognition of the execution of judgments and decisions imposing trial measures and alternative sanctions, the recognition of enforcement of decisions on precautionary measures and a European protection order. With this bill, we propose 6th amendments and additions to the law. The reason for the re-amending and supplementation is primarily the implementation of the provisions of EU Directive 2016/800 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on... the guarantees for children suspected or accused of criminal proceedings and EU Directive 2016/1919 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on legal aid for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and for the persons sought in the proceedings under a European arrest warrant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The objectives of both Directives are to establish minimum standards in the area of procedural rights of the defendants, which also facilitates judicial cooperation based on the principle of mutual recognition through strengthening mutual trust. The enforcement of the Directives in question requires the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on Juvenile Courts which regulate the rights of accused persons in the domestic criminal proceedings and are also subject to a European arrest warrant. Following this, the article of the law governing the rights of the requested persons in the execution of the European arrest warrant was amended, and a new article was introduced concerning the procedure of the child who was the person requested in relation to whom the European arrest warrant was issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139498	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening the debate, and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative, Željko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139499	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. During the accession period, it is common for each country to seek to adapt its future EU member state to its national legislation to the EU acquis, or after EU accession, to apply the directives during the adaptation of its national legislation. So did the Republic of Croatia in this power, the powers of legal cooperation between EU members in criminal matters. In fact, the Law on Legal Cooperation in Criminal Matters brought a thousand, 2010 for the first time and came into force when Croatia and was admitted into the EU on 1 July 2013. In this way, the Republic of Croatia, as the usual practice of new EU members, has also assumed in its national legislation the primary sources of EU law, so the Treaty on the EU, the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, as well as secondary sources which are manifested by the adaptation of national legislation through the application of the directives in amendments to individual laws, as well as in this power of legal cooperation. The State Secretary mentioned two directives which were therefore based on amendments to the articles in this 6th time of the amendment of the Law on Legal Cooperation. When it comes to phasing out guarantees, when it comes to children, in order to enable them to follow a criminal procedure where suspects or defendants are, or thus, having a real opportunity for a fair trial. This second directive also provides access to the defendants, defendants in criminal proceedings or their lawyers in order to provide legal assistance based on a European arrest warrant. These amendments also mention European arrest warrants in their application in the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. But what is crucial and what needs to be pointed out is that it is not only about the application of the directives but in this way, the Croatian judiciary creates assumptions that it is more effective in preventing cross-border crime, that there are assumptions for co-operation with other countries' judiciary. To replace evidence, to exchange information and thus to be achieved in this power, therefore through legal cooperation, a higher level of efficiency of the Croatian judiciary. Finally, this is also the most valuable thing in the amendments to this law because the amendments apply only to a few articles. The HDZ Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Cooperation and criminal matters with EU Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139500	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Therefore, the main newspaper in these amendments and additions to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States is the status of children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. These amendments define more precise legal assistance in general, but specific to children who are found, so people under 18 who are in this situation, including the right to be represented, the right to understand the procedure in which they entered, therefore, the right to understand the language they understand. In any case, this particular emphasis is to say so on the position and rights of children who are in the process when it comes to the wanted person in relation to the European arrest warrant is certainly one positive shift. I think we've seen this in particular, and it would be interesting to see if they're also coming out of this by some other regulation, and that's a regulation that applies to refugees and migrants. Especially migrants, because we know from practice recently that migrants have not only been exposed to extremely rough procedures, but have been involved in procedures in which there were no translators, they have not understood what the whole process is, they are not processed according to all the rules, and it is particularly sensitive and particularly inhumane when it comes to children. We've had many cases like this, and we've heard of some. We have not heard of many, nor have we ever heard of them, but we have heard of some. And if it is a special treatment or special emphasis on how children should be approached when it comes to the European arrest warrant, then it would be logical for this to have a clearer definition of the procedure and of all the right to interact with children who, of course, are all others, but especially with children who find themselves in this situation of immigrants, in the extreme line of particularly illegal immigrants because they are in some way under legal sanctions, but as the right have children who are looking for the basis of the European arrest warrant should at least have those same rights as the children of migrants. Another problem with this, this whole, in order to tell the complex of questions of which this is just one that solves these amendments and the additions is in general the functioning of the European arrest warrant. As we in Croatia know from our own experience, the European arrest warrant applies extremely selectively not to say as a political instrument. There is a European arrest warrant based on Croatia's request in the case of Hernadi Croatia which is simply ignored. It is ignored by the reason that it endangers the Hungarian national interests. You remember the huge noise and shit that was raised on the Perkovic case, lex Perkovic, which was all about criticism within Croatia because Croatia did not immediately respect the European arrest warrant in that case of Croatian citizens. In the event that Croatia is the one seeking and it is ultimately, of course, granted that order. In the event that Croatia is the one who initiates and asks to examine one person in Croatia as a key subject, which is the whole issue of corruption or not corruption and fate and the way INE sells, it is suddenly not so important anymore and I hear no noise and excitement, neither in Croatia nor in the EU on the subject. From that point of view, Croatia has absolute and right and the possibility to question the application of the instrument of relevance and efficiency of the European arrest warrant at European level. Whether it's an instrument just for stronger or it's an instrument for all, is it something that regardless of otherwise political power, size, the position of a Member State uses universally, and then of course it makes sense and works, and then all of this here that's proposed makes sense and works or it's a de facto instrument of political pressure. Because if this is an instrument of political pressure within the EU, as we say, is a comparative example of our and Hungary, so an example of Germany – Croatia, Croatia – Hungary, then this whole story does not make sense and should be set from the beginning. Especially in the conditions in which a new institution is now being prepared, as you know, and this is the institution of a European public prosecutor or a function equivalent to a state attorney or a public prosecutor, which has also caused controversy within the EU. Laura Kovesi, who has been proposed, the former head of Romania's anti-corruption agency, which is under unusually strange political circumstances, has been replaced in Romania, which the European Parliament voted as its candidate and has given her support, the question is just how much for political reasons it will have a chance to come to this position. Taking into account these 3 elements, therefore, the treatment of children on warrants or for whom a European arrest warrant has been issued in a partnership with the treatment of migrant children and refugees. The second element is the diversity of the criteria used when applying or insisting on fulfilling the European arrest warrant. And finally the political criteria that seem to be becoming crucial... Obviously there's everything if you look at her references, all references to that function. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, depending on how the whole story ends with a European public prosecutor or a state attorney, if I may say so. I believe that the Republic of Croatia should be at European level, and it has absolute right to do so and it has absolute opportunity to ask the question of relevance, political neutrality, the version of the political use of this instrument. In this case, the Republic of Croatia has been treated absolutely differently in the European context of Hungary, for example. And for that reason, he has the right to suspect that this instrument is being used with political, say some background or discrimination, not neutrally as it should be. Our EU membership gives us many advantages, but it also gives us certain obligations, and it is our obligation to raise our voice when we see that some things do not work. This, in Croatian experience, does not work and therefore, on this topic should, with full justification, ask the question of the general way of regulation and the full sense and scope of application, therefore, the neutral universal application of this instrument of a European arrest warrant. In this context, this modification that you are introducing here related to children where it is of course acceptable, but the relevance or political neutrality of the entire instrument is highly questionable and I think that HS should propose to the Government to initiate within European institutions to consider the functionality and way of functioning of this instrument which should actually be a way of equating practice and turned into a way of political discrimination. The proposal itself will support these changes and additions, and this initiative I think that the Croatian Government has an obligation to run through Croatian experience within the European institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139502	Thank you. The individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Sasa Djujic, who is not there, so he loses the right to debate, and I will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139503	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, first reading, P.Z. Number 628. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is concluded, and in accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 117 votes for and 6 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139504	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a decision to amend the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. The proposal is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139505	Thank you, Vice President. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, there's only Mrs. from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although this is an important topic, at least it should have been a minister, I think about declaring an exclusive economic belt, or extending the sovereign Croatian rights in our part of the Adriatic, but here, as well as the president of HS has put this point as the last item of the agenda today and that the MPs have not escaped after the current one, the question is if we would even discuss this point, but here, let's say that this is some reasonable time at 18 hours, although most of the public does not follow what is HDZ's interest at all. So, first of all, Please. [[I need to correct you.]] Well, 18 hours. [[I have to correct you, so be my colleague.]] So, first of all, I would like to thank the MPs who, by their signature, have supported this debate today, without these signatures, it is difficult for us to welcome this debate by the end of the term of office of the HS, and we have been waiting for a long time, more precisely, a full year and two months since we have submitted the motion for a decision in the parliamentary procedure. Anyway, my colleagues from MOST and I welcomed this debate with great pleasure. There are rare occasions in the history of a country, a nation when it decides to declare sovereign rights on some part of the land or sea. This is one of these opportunities, I want to take advantage of it, to convince you that the decision to declare an exclusive economic belt should be made without delay and without coaxing towards anyone, and that the Republic of Croatia will benefit from the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. So that there is no doubt in the club MOST we consider the declaration of an exclusive economic belt to be an unsustainable obligation of this generation to future generations of Croatian people. We believe that declaring an exclusive economic belt is a first-class political issue that must not be seen through the prism of a political daily life, nor should it be adapted to that daily life. That is why we have proposed this decision, considering that political, legal and factual assumptions have been made that the Republic of Croatia declares an exclusive economic belt. In doing so, I would like to stress that we are not making this decision to declare an exclusive economic belt against someone or someone else's harm, but to protect and preserve the Adriatic Sea and its wealth and the achievement of Croatian national interests. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to remind our public of the efforts so far made by the Republic of Croatia to exercise sovereign rights that make up the content of the exclusive economic belt on the Adriatic. Namely, this issue, as everyone knows, is not new, but the indecision of the current political authorities in Croatia makes it still current. We could also say that the issue of the exclusive economic belt and its declaration has existed since the modern Croatian state exists. It is a sea area of nearly 24,000 km square square miles, which stretches in front of the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, where intensive sailing and fishing takes place. With regard to this area, the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision in 2003 extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea establishing a famous protected ecological and fisheries belt known as the ZERP. The declaration of ZERP as one of the IGP derivatives obviously served for daily policy purposes at the time, as already in 2004 the Croatian Parliament amended the decision by delaying the application of the ZERP until the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement with the then European Community. Thus ZERP was immediately disbanded, made ineffective, and since then, Croatia's policy has largely sought to convince that the exclusive economic belt has little purpose and that we do not need to declare it. Even here and there, cunning politicians used the issue to raise their popularity and show themselves to national interests before the elections. Thus, the one whose name in the HDZ is no longer pronounced in 2006 before the parliamentary elections estimated that the ZERP could hold a few votes, so the parliament again changed its decision on the extension of the jurisdiction in which the ZERP would certainly begin to apply as of 1 January 2008. However, after the parliamentary elections, optimism about the application of the ZERP was waned sharply, and a further amended decision on the enlargement of jurisdiction in the Adriatic Sea was amended in 2008. This last amendment established a temporary regime in the ZERP under which the ZERP is temporarily not applied to the Member States of the European Union until a common agreement is reached in the European spirit, I quote. My colleagues and colleagues, please note this syntagma until we find an agreement in the European spirit. For those who do not understand what this should mean, I will be free and offer as a translation into the people known to the Croatian-German phrase that reads "a little morgen". This is therefore the deadline within which a common agreement will be reached in the European spirit "a little morgen" or never. It should not be doubted that such a decision by the Croatian Parliament on the suspension of ZERP has caused general enthusiasm. Everyone in Italy was very pleased. Some of the secretaries in the Italian government then estimated that the ZERP suspension was excellent news in every respect. That shouldn't surprise us by looking at the whole thing from the Italian perspective. These are the deadlines set by the language of diplomatic bureaucracy for God's sake. They mean everything and nothing, while determining their meaning of the Italian fisherman work uninterrupted and unsupervised in Croatia's ZERP as they wish. After that glorious 2008 the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea has no longer changed. We are still waiting for an agreement in the European spirit, and in the meantime our governments are trying to convince us that the IGPs have not been making any sense since we became a member of the European Union. But let's leave history aside for now. Let's let go of what was and commit ourselves to this decision that is on the agenda today and listen to why we propose that the Croatian Parliament should make it. First of all, I would like to highlight the action of the European Union. The European Commission on the principle issue of the need to declare exclusive economic belts in the Mediterranean. That's about 2010. The European Commission ordered a kind of Cost benefit analysis that should show advantages or disadvantages, costs and benefits resulting from the announcement of such marine areas in the Mediterranean. A comprehensive study produced and published in 2013 and provides very exact information on potential costs and benefits that Mediterranean countries would have in the event of the IGP declaration. The above study has shown that countries declaring IGPs can generally expect significant positive effects in the field of navigation safety, protection against ship pollution, protection of the marine environment and fisheries. Most important of all, the study showed that the Republic of Croatia could undoubtedly benefit from the declaration and application of an exclusive economic belt. According to experts who have made the study, the range of these benefits could range from 172m to 279m euros per year. So almost 300m euros per year benefits from the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. It should be noted that those estimates are expressed in the net amount, so that both after the management and control costs of the exclusive economic belt are included. This is a pure benefit, so clean benefit for Croatia. Here I would like to point out once again that the study was done in a professional and comprehensive way. That the experts who have made the study have taken into account all aspects of the declaration of the exclusive economic band and that they have taken into account the specificities of each of the countries analysed, it is possible that the benefit would be much greater. For example, the study correctly concluded that more than 75% of Croatian tourism is connected by the sea, unlike France, where only 20% of tourism activities are related to the sea. Thus, the value of the clean marine environment as the benefits of its protection for Croatia are immeasurably greater than those for France. However, economic benefits or profits are not the only motive why we want to declare an exclusive economic belt. We at MOSTU are aware that the declaration of the economic belt is carried with it and certain obligations and costs associated with the efficient and prudent management of this large sea area, without being managed and not lorded and that it is effectively supervised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its November 2017 report, I will quote in this place a small but indicative segment of the government report mentioned. I quote: The MUP acts, has the power to act to the external border of the territorial sea in terms of the control and control of the state border at sea, but it also observes vessels in the ZERP via radar. As mentioned earlier, the MUP has technical means of monitoring and monitoring, radar and 4 radars with cameras, 4 radars with 19 cameras, but is physically not present in the ZERP, the authority of the MUP goes to the control and control of the state border. The MUP system is linked to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure system. The ZERP control is also in charge of the Coast Guard, which is part of the Ministry of Defence. The port captainates, which are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry, the sea, transport and infrastructure, and the MUP do not have points that could be controlled in the ZERP as well. Thus, the two main problems, i.e. the challenges of control in the IGP, are both in the lack of capacity for both fishing and environmental aspects, and there are not enough people and there are not enough resources. A boat. So it's clear to you that we don't control that sea at all, because we don't have the capacity to and if we wanted to, so at this point we don't have the capacity to control it. So, unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, this is our real, lack of vessel, lack of human resources and a lack of resources, and I would say even more clearly the lack of ambition, the lack of will to be a real maritime state. A country that will carefully and wisely manage its sea and its resources, which will fully protect and monitor what is happening to it. Reading these findings makes it clear to all of us that this government will not declare or ever have a sincere intention to declare an exclusive economic belt, let alone execute it. As much as possible, the government's representatives will try to convince us that Croatia would not benefit from the IGP. They'll assure you that with ZERP, we've declared all the essential contents of the IGP, and that all these others are irrelevant. They will tell you that the IGP area has become an EU sea and that we no longer have any competences there. But even if you believe all their arguments only then should you ask yourself, so what is the problem? If the Croatian IGP does not receive anything, if we cannot limit anyone in anything, if we have declared all the important content of the IGP, if we have consumed all the important sovereign rights, if the Adriatic Sea has already become the EU sea, what is the problem? If all of this is how the government claims we're declaring today the IGP because it turns out we already have it, and we're only dealing with the nomenclature today, but I think we all know where the real problem lies with the IGP announcement. I remember there somewhere in June 2017, while the prime minister Plenkovic, in a debate, taught me a lesson in history. I tried my best to find a clip from the phonogram, so I'm going to read you that state's office. So I quote the prime minister who then spoke to me personally in these words: And on the other hand, I remember a little bit further, I remember those '90s. year, do you remember which statesman visited Zagreb on 16 January 1992, it was then Italian President Kosiga, his visit at that time, so after the EU or the community collectively recognised Croatia was not random, it was important. He set the position of the Croatian state summit in that decade towards the IGP declaration we had the right to. The end of the quote. My colleagues and colleagues, 25 years after the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia, this is how Prime Minister Plenkovic personally told me and all of you about Croatian foreign policy in '90. Can you imagine the young lion Plenkovic in 1992 has not even graduated from college yet, but he has already made foreign policy clear and was referred to in detail about the moves of the then state summit. But that is not even important, it is important to note that our prime minister is infallibly reflecting the views of Croatian foreign policy, hers I would say an approach that is so kind to our neighbours, means lack of vision and courage. And now we've come to the point where we become hostages of historical compromises, and as a thank you we've got another Italian statesman, the spectacular Antonia Tajani. Even in Croatia they echo Tajani's words about Italy's Istria and Dalmatia, words that cross all borders of political decency and diplomatic courtesy. But when you analyze who said those words and who they were told, we're not surprised. He knew well the Secrets to whom he was directing them, he knew he could pronounce them because an adequate reaction would remain, that is our external political reality, that is the position that the Republic of Croatia enjoys in the international community and in the EU. Gentlemen ruling, so much they hold you in Brussels, while you pretend to be listened to, to participate in a debate with the great, they humiliate you in this way because they know that they can, they know that they are allowed because you are insignificant to them. Unfortunately, to this level of insignificantness and inrecognition you have brought down the Republic, so now we are afraid to talk about such topics, let alone decide about them. I met these HDZ colleagues saying there will be no vote until the European elections on this issue at all, there will be no vote, 31 MPs, your colleagues you have signed, here are some who have signed to discuss this, but we will not vote until the European elections. Why? Because they would show to the entire Croatian public that it is more important for them to be good with Antonio Tajani than to protect the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea because they would reject, as the Government has rejected this proposal and therefore we will most likely not vote on this. I read somewhere that the representatives of the Republic of Croatia have even held some consultations with the European Commission, as well as with our neighbours on the possibility of declaring an exclusive economic belt. At our request, the first decision of the government of Andrej Plenkovic was to launch consultations. He asked a journalist of Slovenians if anyone had called you, said the Slovenes had not called us for anything, and as the government had conducted the consultations. I think it was, so when they talk about consultations, about a meeting at the level of the Croatian and Italian foreign ministers where our minister mentioned it, but I don't remember what the Italian side's answer was. I think the information on the meeting is shyly included in the government's report on the consultations carried out in November 2017. And speaking of this report, I must note that it is abounding in the descriptions of the current situation, and it brings very little information on consultations with neighbours and the European Commission. In any case, we are also interested in what the Government has done from November 2017 to today and whether the Government will reach some conclusion on the basis of the consultations carried out. If there are any political, legal or other obstacles to the IGP announcement, please inform us about it so that we can adapt our actions because we are not irresponsible, we are aware that you may have committed to something, so you may not, but tell us that we know. And what I would still, which would have touched, therefore, we have the answer here, means, the patriotic coalition during the negotiations, means, about forming a government, it's somewhere where you clearly supported it, meaning, the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, I would pray, meaning, and representatives of the HDZ that were also part of that party, or I stayed there, but we can later through the replicas and the position of the club, to comment on that position, meaning, according to which you said, here, fellow Bulj will help even if you shut him out of the debate, but here is the answer to the patriotic coalition, "Our position is clear and unequivocal that the declaration of exclusive economic belt of interest for the Republic of Croatia, and we advocate for him. We think it's our duty and our obligation. Any state that has access to the open sea has the right to declare an exclusive economic belt." And now there is further elaborated overall history and then says "Slovenia has used its EU presidency to block the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia, leading to Croatia's abandonment of the ZERP on 13 March, after which the negotiation process was unblocked. By accepting the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and confirming that the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia is to join the EU, HS said on 13 March 2008 that the decision that ZERP will not temporarily apply to the EU Member States has led to the finding of this common agreement with the European spirit and cooperation, and then said "In response to the Croatian ZERP on 4 October 2005, the Slovenian Parliament declares the Slovenian ecological zone and the epicontinental belt that extends itself to Croatian territorial waters and in the area of the belt, and in 2006, it also declared a protected ecological belt that represents a reduced form of economic Belt, where only economic belts are limited to aspects of nature protection from the content of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and now on the Republic of Croatia, this is the response of the HDZ 'RH has declared the content of an exclusive economic Belt which refers to the sovereign rights of research and exploitation, conservation and management, living natural resources of waters outside of the territorial sea, and the scientific environment and protection of the sea. However, our ZERP is not applicable and therefore our sea is what should be a ZERP or an exclusive economic belt now European sea, sea without any ecological protection. The economic belt is an institute that has international legal protection unlike an ecological fishing belt not mentioned in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. The difference between the ZERP and the exclusive economic zone is that the ZEPR only covers a column of seawater above the bottom, while the exclusive economic belt covers the seabed and the underworld, as well as an air column above the area covered by the economic belt, etc. So, an excellently reasoned difference between the ZERP and the IGP, the pledge to rule out the economic belt, this was the HDZ stance, or the Patriot coalition, and we all know that HDZ was the headquarters party and the Patriot coalition. And I am aware that in this debate neither colleagues Bačić nor colleagues Boric nor here the people of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any arguments, why don't we declare an exclusive economic belt, when you yourself said, Mr Bačić, that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and that it is your duty and obligation. Here's the answer here, the Patriot coalition, I'll give it to you after I'm done. The answer means, at the request of the MOST, to declare the exclusive economic belt. So, you were either deluding the Croatian public at the time, or you're cheating on the Croatian public now. Or you've been telling the truth here, but it's not because all the experts on the law of the sea agree that what you've brought out here is true and that we and our colleagues here and everyone who signed for this debate, and that now actually for who knows what reasons you don't want to declare an exclusive economic belt. So we insist on our proposal. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is at the level of bureaucratic justifications, deprived of real professional content and state attitude, and it is quite clear what this is about. Did you know that the Italians were agreed to stop for a certain time fishing in an apple cauldron? Why? Because the fish fund's been compromised. Why is the fish fund compromised? Because the Italians are taking too much out in our ZERP. And what are you doing? Watch your state decisions, you stop fishing for our fishermen in our continental waters in order to restore the fish fund? It's HDZ's state behaviour, it's treasonous behavior, it's high treason behavior. It is a betrayal of interest and Croatian fishermen, it is a betrayal of sovereign Croatian rights and that is why you, colleague Bačić, want this debate to be at this time and therefore you will not put this to the vote. Come on when you're so brave, when you're convinced of your position, put this on the vote on Friday, this one or the next one or the one behind. When you're convinced like that. Will you put it on? You want to put it to a vote? And you're going to refuse an exclusive economic belt? That's what I'd like to see. That's what I'd like to see. But I don't think you have that much courage, given that it's quite clear that in all aspects you are doing counter-Croatian interests, of course, negotiations with Serbia where you are not calling on a committee to monitor the implementation of the criteria in Chapters 23 and 24 which violates the government's decision. The foreign minister violates the government's decision, the government's valid decision, and here, what is Croatia's sovereign right, to which the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea of 82th urges us to the EU Commission and says that the benefits for every country that declares an exclusive economic belt will be enormous and in monetary terms, especially this ecological sense, means you don't want to hear it. And practice bureaucratic explanations. I also want to know how the SDP is going to be put on this issue, if we're going to have a big coalition on this one, so often, when it comes to the protection of national interests, you've played along and trampled those interests. I hope, here, that by changing the leadership of the SDP, that that, too, that certain things have changed and I don't see why the SDP would hold the HDZ ladder in this case, so I'm interested in how the SDP, and from the other colleagues who have always been on the line of protection of national interests, I expect, of course, and I don't doubt that this will support it at all. After all, they also gave signatures to this debate because if it had been up to us, this debate would never have happened and I must also commend, so colleagues from the Living Wall, HRAST, Independent for Croatia, 4 or 5 SDP deputies gave signatures, so here, everyone who gave the signatures, of course, thank you because the debate certainly would not have been that they decided by ruling. Here, there's going to be an opportunity still in the name of the club and in replicas to explain certain things, I think this is enough to start with.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139506	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First is the respected representative of Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139507	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy. To be clear, the SDP does not hold a ladder to HDZ or anyone else. Now let me remind you of a few facts. ZERP was declared in 2003, HS declared it to be an incentive of the Croatian government or Racan government, the SDP government, when a decision was made to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. After that, this Assembly has decided three times to limit the application of ZERP. Each time on a proposal from the HDZ government. And then the elections came in 2015 when the Most set a requirement for coalition with HDZ or with the SDP to one or the other coalition, so Croatia grows or the Patriot coalition, and you read the position of the Patriot coalition, accept the ZERP. You picked who? HDZ. I 2015 and 2016 [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139508	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139509	I told my colleague Klisovic because the HDZ response is much more favourable for declaring an exclusive economic belt than for the SDP response. That's why I didn't read it, and I sent a message. But since HDZ's responsibility for not declaring an exclusive economic belt is much greater, I do not see a reason for such an attitude as the Croatian coalition was growing, which was much less mild towards the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. I can show you that you, yes, mean the HDZ position was much tighter around the IGP announcement. But I agree with you, and I support that every time the HDZ has actually obstructed it, it means declaring an exclusive economic belt. That's right. Pure manipulation. They never intended to declare an exclusive economic belt even though we forced them to make the first decision of Plenkovic's government to be means to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139510	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representatives of Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139511	Thank you. Your Honor, you have, therefore, listed several reasons why an exclusive economic belt should be declared. So, an increase in the quality of life because it's a first-class political issue, a question of sovereignty, economics and environmentals. We also talked about the possibilities of hawari in that area over which we would now have a sovereign right and approach the resolution of such hawari. Because from the footage, satellite footage of the Adriatic Sea is clearly visible and oil stains of all those tankers that sail in the middle of the Adriatic Sea when they come out. So there are clear reasons why you should. But it's completely unclear why HDZ doesn't want to do it. And you know what he told me, so I want to know why you think they don't want to declare it? And one of the citizens sent me a question and said, "I don't see the difference between the Adriatic and Slavonic plains." Do you give the Adriatic plain a gift and...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139512	Thank you. Reply by the Honored Representative of the Grumoja [[/Strenja raid:... and Slavonic plain one day?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139513	So today I followed the prime minister's reactions when asking questions. He got the most pissed off at two things. At the question of one of our colleagues about Agrokor and handing over land in Slavonia to the Russians and forcing the commissioners to sign concessions. And on the question of counterpart Cikotic, it means, around these liaison officers and the fact that the young people the government wants to hire will pay only for the show. So, apparently, Prime Minister Plenkovic himself realizes that such a policy teaches Slavonia to the Russians, giving in to the Italians in the Adriatic Sea, will ultimately cost him a lot. Besides, they wouldn't be putting this debate at this hour if they weren't afraid of this and they had arguments. So it's clear they're hitting the Italians. They favor their friend Tajani who participated in their campaign, who said Istria and Dalmatia are Italian. And that's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139514	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139515	You have my full support and thank you for putting him in the process. Everything you said is in place. And my support for this law comes out precisely because you here acted like a sovereign and this law goes in that direction. And as the HDZ is, specifically, Andrej Plenkovic, who is currently run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is being extremely unsuspecting. But here, you mentioned it well and pointed out. No HDZ party representative has allowed you to sign this law in the process, as none of them has allowed me to come into the process of the Life Protection Act. Because they are Christian Democrats only when they need to get votes from Christians, and when it comes to fighting for what the Church is about, then they are not Christian Democrats, and the sovereigns you well emphasized have neither S of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139516	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139517	I thanked you both at the beginning of the debate and in the end. Once again, I thank you for your support for the debate on this issue. We would not, we would never discuss it means that it was up to the ruling ones, nor would we, as representatives of the Bridge, even though we referred this proposal with 12 signatures could put this topic on the agenda at all. So I thank you once again and every MP who has signed that this debate happens and as far as HDZ is concerned, it is quite clear that those Croatian interests do not protect and that in this case they do not have any arguments because they are also financial, and financial meaning Croatia is benefiting from the declaration of an exclusive economic belt and ecologically and in any other sense from Zadar, even worse north. So we have a large number of wrecks where people come in. So Italian divers working on platforms and that means our submarine treasure means... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139518	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sincic Here you go. [[Grmoya attack: Nor can it be properly protected.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139519	Thank you, Chairman. We're waiting there on the shores of 24 thousand kilometres of square sea surfaces, underwater surfaces, huge volumes in that column and air, and water, and so the bottom of the sea to take this territory, belongs to us according to international law. There's Brazil, there's Norway, and everyone who thinks about themselves and their people a little bit, and development, about control, about security has declared such a similar economic belt. And there's no excuse why it hasn't been done to this day. And huge losses are both financial and social and everything else because they weren't done today. According to a study you quoted up to 279 million euros, so that's over 2 billion kuna, and let's say it's 2 billion kuna. So, every year we lose one Peles Bridge why? Because of the service policy of all the governments so far... The speaker is not understood because of the intrusion/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139520	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139521	So, here we have seen how much losses this is due to exactly the kind of policy in which the prime minister calls for the fact that there were 90s we are losing one Peljeski bridge a year, and that is the policy supported by fellow Boric and other colleagues here HDZ in Parliament, their candidates for the European Parliament, and now they are looking for the votes of dear citizens to send and tell us the message "we will fight for national interests", you who do not want to declare an exclusive economic belt, which is why we are losing one Peljega Bridge, you will fight for Croatian national interests, that is one of the servants' policies, meaning, which we need already in these euro elections to say a lot, go to elections and punish those who in this way refer to our most valuable resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139522	Dear Representative Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139523	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoy, if you'd given a lot of these reasons, however, I'd still draw attention to some things, so I'd like to have an opinion. So, do we, on the side of all political differences and camps, but whether we have here as representatives of HS responsibility for generations to come, responsibility for the Adriatic, which, by all indicators, experiences degradation, so it's not just a question of the fish fund, it's not just a question of pollution and transport, anxiety at the bottom of the north, so pollution and waste and plastics, it's a lot of things that come on the agenda, and now it's really an opportunity to take full responsibility and with neighbors in agreement to solve this problem. [[Intruder: Dear Representative...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139524	... Thunderbolt, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139525	So it is clear that this is a matter of responsibility, but by ruling these responsibilities do not have, so they have no responsibility towards Croatian resources, according to the Croatian sea, towards Croatian fishermen, according to our submarine, so they do not have those responsibilities, they do not feel it, they are well said by colleagues Bulj, they are people from the incubator Budimir Lončar, which means they manage the Republic who are placed in all positions and our prime minister is one of those. I remember negotiations with HDZ, a prominent HDZ member was a great advocate of the declaration of the exclusive economic belt while Prime Minister Plenkovic was fiercely, fiercely opposed, so he feels Brussels, than Split, he feels Brussels more than Zagreb, he feels Brussels than Osijek, he feels Brussels more than Dubrovnik and it is unfortunately Croatian... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139526	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government representative want to further explain his opinion? Yes, respectable State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Andreja Metelko Zgombic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139527	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives, yes, we have had the opportunity to now hear the proposal of the Most Representatives' Club, which proposes to make a new decision on the enlargement of jurisdiction. The Government of the Republic of Croatia took a careful look at the proposal and, following the arguments set out in this proposal, developed the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has also been distributed to all of you here. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would really say, is legally justified, professionally formulated, and I must admit that during these bitter announcements and the presentation of the proposal, we have not heard a single sentence, not a single element, which would not be correct in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which refuses to accept or accept the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Most, we have not heard anything that would not be true in the Government's opinion. Similarly, we haven't actually heard from which, but really on the basis of which it is claimed that by not declaring an exclusive economic belt, the Republic of Croatia loses millions of euros, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, and I must admit that, in the opinion and proposal of the representatives of the Most, there is no concrete basis on which they base it. I see you're shouting to me from the 2010 European Commission report. This 2010 European Commission report It was done at a time when the Republic of Croatia was outside the EU and the data placed there are calculations in a way that states that the Republic of Croatia has the right to fish in the territorial sea and in the internal sea waters of the Republic of Croatia, and that in the event of a declaration of an exclusive economic belt, it would have the right to fish in the ZERP or an exclusive economic belt, and the Republic of Croatia already has that. So there's no regulation, there's nothing that doesn't prevent us from completely, repeating, completely, enjoying and exploiting all the benefits, even an exclusive economic belt. I would say and completely reject allegations that this government is not responsible and that because of the alleged failure to declare an exclusive economic belt, we lost the value of a Peljega bridge, it is not irresponsible to try to serve such a thing from the parliamentary benches to the Croatian public. The government, after an analysis has been carried out, including the MOST proposal, and you know that on the basis of the government's conclusion that it was then part of the MOST as a coalition partner, but as a partner in cooperation with the HDZ if I can remember correctly, the Government then tasked the Foreign Ministry to draw up a full report in cooperation with all other resolutions. And it's done. In cooperation with other resolutions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepared a detailed report on more than 30 pages, which carefully analysed the 2010 European Commission's report, and I can say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then participated in the work with the European Commission and provided some information on certain parameters and areas over which Croatia enjoys sovereignty or sovereign jurisdiction. If I may say so in your proposal, you are saying that by declaring the exclusive economic belt, Croatia would extend sovereignty. That's not true. You write sovereignty. That's not true. And what Croatia already has now enjoys is the sovereign right of jurisdiction in this area of the sea. And this area, as you have beautifully interpreted and simulated, is a spell of water, it is true, it is a protected ecological fishing belt makes a pillar of water, but it rests on an epicontinent belt, so the seabed and the underworld of the Republic of Croatia, which Croatia has an ipso facto according to international law, which is a coastal state and thus has the right to exercise its sovereign right of jurisdiction in accordance with international law. So, the epicontinent belt on the seabed, the water column in ZERP, makes together a package that international law of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea calls and calls for an exclusive economic belt. When Croatia declared the content of the exclusive economic belt carefully, we carefully chose all the essential contents of the exclusive economic belt. I would say that even then, the Ministry, the Government, and in the far line of the Croatian Parliament, when proclaiming it, did the best that was possible. The only difference in content is absolutely the only difference in content between our ZERP as we now have an exclusive economic belt under the UN Convention is that the Republic of Croatia does not have the right to build artificial islands in our ZERP and make use of the power of the sea, the wind in this area. If we know that the Republic of Croatia has 1,244 islands and islets, plus rocks and reefs, if we know that the Republic of Croatia is based on the epicontinent seabed, which is Croatia, whose fine demarcation Croatia has agreed with Italy following that agreement in 1968, which was held by the former Yugoslavia and Italy, then we know that in the area of the Epicontinent Belt we have the right to build artificial installations, explore the seabed and underground, exploit it with gas, hydrocarbons, etc. So we already have that, and we can do that, to a large extent, Croatia does that. Another small difference is wind power, the exploitation of tides and tides. It is precisely that 2010 report, which the applicant likes to call on in detail, says that the difference in the Mediterranean between the tide and the axis is so small that it is not the usability of the force of this change in the Mediterranean. What the power of electricity says is not great, of course, because the Convention provides for this possibility for ocean areas where indeed sea currents are bigger and then coastal states that declare any protected ecological belt, any fishing belt, whether exclusively an economic belt, are different names with various contents, so the state has the right to exploit these parts then. What, therefore, that same report is actually de facto saying that Croatia has lost nothing because it is not from, declared these two small segments. When it comes to the very rights which the Republic of Croatia is now exercising, I would ask that for real for the needs of information and the Croatian public, please look at this report, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted and which it has provided for information as information to this high home. In this report, it is very careful, with precision that no international lawyer, an environmental expert, can dispute geology, cannot dispute. So 30 pages exist on the web that are impeccable, of course, to the extent that, which is integrity as perfection, this can be achieved. There is the Government, the report says exactly what the difference in content is, what I just said between the exclusive economic belt and the ZERP that Croatia has. The report sets out exactly what ZERP rights apply or what happened to ZERP when Croatia joined the EU. And then the report sets out exactly how the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU can best protect its interests on the Adriatic. And what is also said in that report, therefore, the ZERP as an area of the sea became the European fishing sea at the time of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. So all the arguments we find in this proposal, I'd say they've stopped in some of the past times. You suggest that Croatia declares an exclusive economic belt, then ban Italians from fishing, and charge them for fishing, so that we can finally start controlling, incorrectly. We wrote in a nice report at the moment when Croatia entered the European Union it became European. You have statements from the highest officials of the European Commission, you see the behaviour of the European Commission which confirms that. And what may not have been realized here until the end is that we have somehow succeeded in those efforts, because although this high house has not formally amended the decision not to apply the ZERP legal regime in relation to the Member States of the European Union de facto it has happened. The European Commission considers ZERP as an area in which Croatia has extended its jurisdiction. Regarding environmental protection, the Republic of Croatia has been invited and makes reports to the European Commission on how to protect the waters of ZERP. Therefore, the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, not Italy, not Slovenia, of course, but the Republic of Croatia take templates or samples from the sea in the area of ZERP and send them to the European Commission. And she knows that it is the Republic of Croatia that implements the directive on the maritime strategy in the area of ZERP. Environmental protection knows this because it is environmental protection that formally implements it. When it comes to control, it would be better if we were a lot more teamed up, if we were much stronger, but it's up to us. So we've got coast guard, we've got jurisdiction over all kinds of resistors. What the French have calculated is that for a truly real control of one square kilometre of ZERP, a single economic belt needs 64.4 euros. Which would mean that Croatia should invest an additional million and a half euros a year for full control, and that makes Croatia a little bit. What you said wasn't controlled. I got the report today. She asked her colleagues from the Department of Agriculture to show us how they are now controlling ZERP. We have obtained drones that are watching and which can be present on the ground, because objectively it is not economical, it is not cost-effective for every vessel that appears in our ZERP to sail Croatian ships within the Coast Guard. But there's a way to control it. There's that blue box. There's satellite tracking. I won't be long, but maybe it's about control and when it comes to control and we're doing it, I would say, because all Croatian fishermen have been licensed by the European Union and they are you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139528	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139529	And they're the ones who have to control all the fishing activities in our ZERP. They're cooperating, if I'm going to have a chance maybe for later, they're cooperating.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139530	I thank the secretary of state for this...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139531	And a conclusion if I may say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139532	Madam Secretary of State you'll have a word later. ... /Metelko Zgomcic: Excuse me.... Thank you very much to the secretary of state. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139533	Dear Secretary of State is really interesting to me right now, do you really believe what you're saying or are you just saying that because it's your government's current position? Because I have heard from your colleagues on this issue countless times that ZERP is something that is necessary, something that is good, something that is worth it to Croatia. And now one thing you don't understand clearly. Every country is just because it has people and territory. And now it's the difference between you and me or us here that we represent this law, which is what we think the sovereignty of the state is a guarantee of prosperity, not a servant's policy and a view of Brussels or any other centre of power that you have. But I'll repeat the question. Do you really believe what you said to harm Croatia if it had 24 thousand kilometers more territory or would it have damaged it as you claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139534	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. The answer to a respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139535	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for this comment. I'd say he shows how many segments of your proposal simply aren't legally justified. What kind of territory, state area? The territory is a state area of the mainland of the Republic of Croatia's internal seawaters and the territorial sea. ZERP will never be the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is only an area of sea which is situated on the external border of the territorial sea and over which the Republic of Croatia enjoys sovereign legal jurisdiction as a coastal state. And a government that understands and knows, knows the best way to achieve and promote those rights. Here, thank you very much. And perhaps, 24 thousand kilometers of Croatia already has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139536	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139537	So, I would congratulate the secretary of state if, by some miracle, the candidacy, so, Minister Pejcinović-Buric for the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, today she was sent to defend the anti-Croatian interests this passionately, I am convinced that she will reward her with the position she wants so much. And as for all of this that's said here, none of what you said is true because that's the case, then let's go declare the GP, if there's no difference between the ZERP and the IGP, no one will be angry, why don't you declare the IGP, so we of the opposition that we know nothing so much, we won't call it, here's the IGP when there's no difference. But you know very well that there are differences and that no one is actually controlling it and that the Italians are getting out too much, you know that and that's why we banned and agreed with the Italians in the apple cauldron, so, the ban on fishing to restore the fish fund. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139538	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. The answer to your honorary secretary of state is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139539	The Republic of Croatia now has the possibility and the full right to control the area of ZERP, the thing of course is in our physical capabilities that are growing every day, and one of the forms of surveillance is cooperation with other country's competent authorities. Namely, the EU Member States and their inspectors no longer directly punish the fishermen of other Member States, but stop them or if they see on the monitor that they are in breach, write a report and report them to the competent authorities of the flag state of the ship. And that's what the Republic of Croatia does regularly and here's our strength I'd say our inspectors are working with Italians to exchange data. and that it is correct that correspondence goes also to Brussels who also cares that [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] performs surveillance [[Intruder: Thank you...]] the European sea. [[Intruder:...responsible]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139540	Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139541	Mr. Vice-President HS, you said that we do not refer to any relevant research, any relevant data when we present the claims we make. But you are well aware of the report commissioned by the European Commission on the costs and benefits resulting from the establishment of maritime zones in the Mediterranean and you yourself state it in your report on the consultations carried out. This report makes very clear benefits, not damage, but benefits for the Republic of Croatia. On page 2. 210 of this report, in Table 39, clearly states which amounts are of benefit to the Republic of Croatia and to fishing and especially to the Republic of Croatia. indirect benefits for tourism. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139542	The next replica of the esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, please. Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139544	Thank you. I'll do it a little differently since I don't have an answer. I wonder if it is true that you invited ambassadors to the memorial in Jasenovac to come with Mr Plenkovic, not to another memorial organised there by associations of the Union of anti-fascist fighters and survived from the Jasenovo camp. Was that based on your direct boss or prime minister? Because based on that answer did you personally call the ambassadors of the United States, Great Britain, France, Austria, so you've dragged them directly into ours within our political current recommendations and problems, which is inappropriate in diplomacy. In that sense, I can also understand your calling that for those who have sought to declare the exclusive economic belt that these are irresponsible people because that means that then all those countries that have declared IGP you find irresponsible So please answer or you'll walk away on this one. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139545	...respected colleague of Ines Strenja. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139546	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Your honorary secretary of state said that this opinion of the Government was legally justified and professionally and it is so, I can confirm it. But it differs significantly from what Mr. Grumoja read to us about the political attitude of the patriotic coalition. Does this mean that there has been a shift in HDZ policy on this issue or is there something else? Because the twist on this SDP position has not come up, and it was obviously the reason why SDP did not, perhaps not, maybe another one was chosen as a coalition partner, and our position is quite the same then and then and then and today is legally founded and professional with the political dimension of the protection of national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139547	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139548	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you've worked very hard to explain this, but they don't want to understand you. And they don't want to because they're simply able to connect the exclusive economic belt to the memorial in Jasenovac. They don't see the difference at all. And you can talk to them all day here. They don't understand. Why? Because they don't. They don't want to understand, and you also heard in an opening speech from a colleague, Grmoy, that they took it out for the election and wanted a political point. He was very honest about it. We don't have much to talk about. You've heard the sovereigns. They think the Assembly may by decision increase the territory of the Republic of Croatia by a third. With 56 grand, another 24 grand more. Well, they don't know the difference between the right to the territory and the management of the territory and the territory of the state itself. And now you're going to explain to them the whole bigger we can explain to them, they don't understand. So let's stick to argument and talk what's true and what the people need to hear. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139549	I'll fight my friend. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139550	Thank you, Chairman. Respected secretary of state. Your speech here reminds me of Governor Vujčić's speech when he came to explain when that gold was sold that it was better not to have gold than to have that gold. All right, it doesn't have to be according to this study, and that's the only study we have, it doesn't have to be 279 million euros a year or 2 billion kuna, so let's make it half of the Peljega Bridge, someone becomes a fifth of the Peljega Bridge. Here's what I'm asking you to do here as an argument, give us the numbers. This Parliament is asking the expert body that has appointed, which is the government and everything else the government is doing, so that we can make a political decision. Give us the numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139551	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague of Nikola Grmo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139552	So, what we could hear here now from fellow Boric are insults to those who want Croatia to extend its sovereign rights and he practically, as was the case with Ivo Sanader who gave up in whose government he was, has now given up the Patriot coalition. It means that I will repeat and read again the position of the Patriot coalition on the declaration of only the economic belt. Our position is clear and unequivocal that the declaration is exclusively an economic belt of interest to the Republic of Croatia and we are in favour of it. We think it's our duty and our obligation. The economic belt is an institute that has international legal protection, unlike the ecological fishing belt, which is not mentioned in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. The difference between the ZERP is that the ZERP comprises only a column of seawater above the bottom, while the exclusive economic belt covers the seabed and the underworld, as well as an air column above the area covered by the economic belt. I congratulate my colleague Klisovic on his honesty. Their position at the time was not to declare an exclusive economic belt, that Croatia and now consume all rights, and your position, a colleague of Boric, was different. Who's the politician here? The MOST's stance has been the same since the beginning of the declaration. We couldn't put this point on the debate before even though we wanted her to come on several occasions looking for her, and the truth is that now, I guess some MPs, maybe even because of the election, here I don't think about these colleagues, maybe these colleagues from the SDP who gave the signatures, this one we managed to put this here for debate. But my position, my colleague, is unchanged on this matter, and your position has changed. You were during the Patriot coalition, so I didn't hear you complain that you attacked Karamark and said I was against declaring an exclusive economic belt, you were not heard then, Mr. Boric. Well, if you had braved your stand against the leadership of the Patriot coalition then, I would have congratulated you and told you that you were a co-worker, you were also against the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, and today you are against it. But you're the kind of attitude your president is. When Ivo Sanader was the president of HDZ, as he had his stance, that was the attitude of counterpart Branko Bacic and your position. During Karamark, however, Bacic was not at his mercy, but he did not attack him too much, waiting for the circumstances to change, the second current to come, but he did not attack Karamark. Neither did you, and you were here and a parliamentary representative at the time, I mean the Patriot coalition. So, the message is to Croatian citizens, politicians are on this side, those who change their views depending on the circumstances are on this side, and the parliamentary representatives of MOST and colleagues who have signed it means that this debate has the same attitude all this time. And I think it's clear to everyone, and no argument from the secretary of state why should we not declare an exclusive economic belt we haven't heard, except that we've heard lies and deceptions to consume all our rights and now and again I repeat one question to you, if so, why not declare an exclusive economic belt? For what? The answer was given by Prime Minister Plenkovic to my question, we do not want to object to the Italians. And if we are now, that's one logical sequence for you, I don't think it's going to be too hard for you to follow, if we're already using all our sovereign rights, why should we blame the Italians if we declare an exclusive economic belt? It doesn't take a lot of sense to realize that we don't consume all our sovereign rights at this point, that declaring an exclusive economic belt would probably be something we don't mind, but gentlemen, we have a right to do so. If all the Member States and the EU and other countries have done so, if the UK has done so, if France has done so, why has it suddenly occurred to the UK and France to declare an exclusive economic belt, possibly because they can do much better to exercise their sovereign rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139553	Thank you. We have several replicas, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139554	Dear counterpart Grmoja, counterpart Boris obviously does not know what territorial waters are, or what internal waters are, so he does not even know the concept of the economic belt. Once there was no internal sea at all, so someone declared it, and then Boric could jump from his Rab to the sea bath, I don't know, maybe in Italy, I think it was also the Republic of Croatia, so at one point in the legislation, we entered that 12 nautical miles from the most remote point on the coast or on the island or the rocks, that it was Croatian territory, and it's nothing more than ours. The same decision by this House, which has put the decision into international law into its laws. And now we have again the possibility that this House, these MPs say, is also Croatian, is Croatian territory, whether you like it or not, but you are more and more European, whether you were once something else, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139555	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139556	So, I think it was still clear on the board this morning, and it's clear here in this debate that the rulings have no arguments, they sent up-to-date secretary of state hoping for a better minister's office in case the minister, so the current one goes to this position he hopes to go to, I hope he doesn't go, here's colleague Klisovic supports her, I don't support her because of the illegal spending of money in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and everything that's going on there, but here, it's clear that there's no argument here in this debate, that this debate had to be in these late hours, that there's no transmission of this debate on HRT 4 because what's going to be said here is going to come to a small number of people, but we're going to try, and I're confident that those messages we're going to be here today, that those messages that we're going to be sent here today. They reach the Croatian citizens. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139557	The next replica of the esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139558	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoe, you incorrectly said that the SDP is against the economic belt. So, and then when we negotiated and writtenly communicated our position to you, and today it is the same, it says that the SDP is solely an economic belt that is acceptable or protected by the environmental fisheries belt ZERP and its implementation also in line with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. So we didn't lie to you then or now, but apparently someone lied to you, someone lied to you because he cared more about authority than anything else, including Croatian interests. So who lied to you then, who's lying to you today?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139559	I thank my colleague. My colleague Grmo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139560	I expect fellow Klisovic, I expect these brave Europeans and Brussels to have a decision to declare or extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia on the sea, so we will have the opportunity to see who was lying, who was for the exclusive economic belt, and who is for him and who is consistent and who is always on the same line, that is what I expect and here I am asking and the vice president of HS to advocate with his authority that this point come to the debate, not to the debate, but to come to a vote after we discuss it here in these weeks before the European elections. We want to see what Plenkovic's HDZ thinks of expanding the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia at sea, it is expected of you and Croatian citizens, enough deception, enough lies, enough of trampling of Croatian national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139561	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Once the conditions are met, this point will certainly come to the vote, you are without worry, only first we have to finish the debate. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139562	Thank you very much. Now, we heard from the secretary of state that there was no need for everything to be solved, nothing would change. However, something would change because in the middle of the Adriatic, the free sea regime would disappear for transport, and of course there would have to be some regulation, some conversation, some rules, so 7 times the larger fleet of Italian fishermen, so we're talking about fishing over 18 meters long to sail, so both by heavy sea and catch, not only to sail still have to be controlled in some way. I must say that in contact with Italian scientists there are no problems, so people are aware of the responsibilities and conditions in the Adriatic are ready to cooperate and agree on these things, not free trade and and free fishing. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139563	... I'll be a benefactor. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139564	So here it's clear what's going on. We have a response from Prime Minister Plenkovic to my question where he calls for the historical merits of Italy, which is why the Republic of Croatia must not, or will not, declare an exclusive economic belt, while on the other hand we have a state secretary who assures us that the state of the fish fund is ideal and control, so, ZERP, it is clear that this is not the case, Croatia's fishermen know it well, but here, the secretary of state wants to convince us that it is the opposite. After all, it has been in such a tone all day, where the first prime minister assures us that everything in our country is great, to reduce the number of unemployed, to increase GDP, to reduce public debt. They also want to convince us that everything is ideal in our part of the Adriatic, and we all know that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139565	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. I'm opening a debate, we're moving on to a debate on behalf of you, here's my colleague Podolnjak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139566	Dr. Davor Vidas, the director of the Department of Maritime and Law at the Norwegian Institute Fridtjof Nansen, who sent an open letter to Croatian politicians in 2008 asking for the announcement of an exclusive economic belt, said Mr. Grmoje, the secretary of state, all the time, said that we politically want to present some quasi arguments in favour of the exclusive economic belt, but let me also say for the Croatian public the most prominent Croatian scientists for the right to the sea. So we have the highest authority for the right of the sea that requires Croatian politicians for many years to declare us here in the Croatian Parliament exclusive economic belt, whether it's politics by you or by you. Or the attitude of those best scientists we have. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139567	Thank you, dear colleague of the Dolnjak. Come in, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139568	So, when it comes to subsidisation, then no arguments are worth it, so the arguments here are not crucial, it's crucial that someone is hunting for an international career, it's the first foreign minister, that this international career is being hunted by our Prime Minister and why it means to mess with someone if it can cost you later. And the fact that it will be with the Croatian part of the Adriatic, how much damage Croatia will suffer neither Prime Minister Plenkovic nor Minister Pejcinović Buric is interested. Well, that's what the person who worked means for the government of the Republic of Serbia, who advised the government of Ivica Dacic, did the same for the Croatian government, worked for the Serbian government, she doesn't have any patriotic feelings that you and I have. There is no argument about this patriotic feeling with Foreign Minister and Prime Minister Plenkovic. It's not worth it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139569	...respected colleague Grumoji. On behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139570	The esteemed vice president, a respected secretary of state, a high home, historians, sociologists and polythologists have long agreed that nothing testifies to the power of a nation as a rule of the sea and the seashore. Although the crisis and trouble had been before a real disaster, Croatia's maritime orientation experienced by entering the Yugoslav state. In each area of Yugoslavia, we were decimated, not least. For seven decades we haven't developed enough fleet, seven decades we haven't built roads that connect Croatia with the sea, seven decades Croatians were divided by regional key, so all the peoples and all the countries in the world had their own south, only southern Dalmatian Croatia should not be called southern Croatia. And when we hoped that the establishment of the Croatian state and the suppression of the warships of the Yugoslav Navy of one of the symbols of the Yugoslav occupation of the Croatian countries finally ended, we faced the painful fact that today we do not rule what belongs to us based on history and on demographic and economic reasons and on the basis of international law of the sea. Building on this right that has been significantly codified as we all know the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1972 in April 1990, so at the time of the first democratic elections in Croatia, exactly one hundred coastal states have already declared an exclusive economic belt. We couldn't do it back in 1990, of course, but we could have done it when we didn't, after gaining independence and defending independence, or after international recognition. That we were considering speaking about some of the provisions of our first 1994 Maritime Code, namely the 4 chapters of its 2 parts, articles 33 to 42, even though it also spoke of an economic belt not exclusively, with an exclusive economic belt. There was then a quarter of the Croatian state area occupied, and we weren't exactly favorites of the so-called Croatian State Area. international communities, but we have shown at least a principled willingness to protect our own interests by not touching the international legal principle of freedom of the sea. In fact, at no time should hesitant himself by taking this act because, in the context of a relatively young Institute of International Law, the sea continues in fact after World War II and is still in the process of turmoil that many coastal states seek to use for their own benefit by prejudicing generally acceptable solutions. The Adriatic Sea is a semi-closed sea, therefore we could not even use everything the 1982 Convention offers, but according to experts' estimates, we could get at least, so at the time when the application of 21 to 22,000 square kilometres of economic belt, which, in fact, you are right, is not part of the state area, is not an area that would be under the territorial sovereignty of the Croatian state, but is an area where we could protect our national interest and achieve considerable benefits. But to declare an exclusive economic belt, we have not decided. The HS discussed this for the first time in July 2001, and at that time the Servian and Danish third-country majority decided to postpone voting on this with the bizarre explanation of Racan's government in order to quote this as "infringing the reputation of the Republic of Croatia as a reliable partner and a stability factor in Europe", ignoring the fact that they are, for example, "infringing the reputation of the Republic of Croatia as a reliable partner and as a factor in the stability of Europe". All EU member states that have a coast on the Atlantic Ocean long ago declared exclusively economic, only somewhere fishing, belts like drunk rich people, calculators, we gave up the benefits we could have had. Although Croatian experts for international law, and several of them as we have heard, authorities at the world level have represented the opinion that there are no legal reasons against the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, and that politically they must not prevail because successes are not achieved by abatement, denial and capitulation. At that time, we did not even get in touch with the mixed regime, such as the possibility of declaring one part exclusively economic, in another part of the fishing belt. So it's not just about fishing, it's about exploring the sea and submarines, environmental risks, dangers to our health, and neighbouring peoples about the fate issues of tourism, etc. Due to the proverbial short Croatian political memory, we remind ourselves of the history of this problem, such as the history of poverty, incompetence and hypocrisy of the Croatian political class, Mr. Klisovic, there is no consistency either D. As today and before 16 years ago. In the background of important state policy decisions as a single criterion, pre-election calculations and party hens within the then cracked third majority of January remind us of the break-up of Racan's relationship, Budishin HSLS, Budisa goes into exile and raises peppers, the problem of the exclusive economic belt, pre-election riding Tomčić's HSS in hopes of collecting which voice more, and Racan suddenly forgot about the Republic of Croatia as a reliable, read, obedient partner and factors so-called. the stability of Europe, and in fact exclusively led by pre-election debacles with ignorant and capitulant paraphrasing so-called. Agreement Racan-Drnovšek. In 2003, a mutant named Protected Economic Fishing Belt, short for ZERP, was found, no such proposal was attacked as the then opposition HDZ, and in particular the close associate of Sanader and his colleague, Vladimir Seks, who called ZERP, was quoted as "a strange beak". When HS decided on 3 October 2003 to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, it included only one part of the authorisation of the 82 Convention, with the application of the new regime delayed for a year, HDZ voted against that decision, Ivo Sanader reiterated the syntagm of the "strange beak", however, on behalf of the HDZ he was roaring, quoting "the EU cannot exert pressure, I say with full responsibility, it cannot pressure the Republic of Croatia not to declare an economic belt because it is based on the Convention which is older than the EU". I quote "Dr. Sanader "let's transfer this decision to Croatian citizens, so let's be a referendum", so he's one of the so-called threatening citizens. direct democracy, Sanader said, "Let the referendum decide in the next 2 weeks what Croatian citizens want, we will not vote for what is neither an exclusive economic belt nor what the Government originally proposed in its documents, our ordinary man" ends Dr. Sanader would say "we got some pumpkin, a typical product of old-known Croatian bargaining and bargaining policies, when it takes over, a few months later, Dr. Sanader is making a turn, and from Rachin I quote "ready to submit any sacrifice to become a member of the EU" for which German Chancellor Schroeder praised Sanader at the time because I quote "he is implementing the policy of Ivica Racan", as mg. Plenkovic is conducting politics in all areas of your former government today, Mr. Klisovic. Therefore, the HDZ's majority in this new HS summit seasoned, of course, to the inevitable SDSS on 3 June 2004 made an even more scandalous decision to supplement the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, so that it does not apply to EU members, which then went further in 2006, 2008, until the so-called "Determination". a joint agreement in the EU with a spirit that, of course, has never occurred. Meanwhile, in the Croatian political theatre, the settlement capitulant piece remained the same, only stakes changed. The opposition SDP was then pre-election-repeated due to a delay in the use of ZERP. To make the matter bizarre, for example, then-representative Neven Mimica, who has been repudiating on HDZ to seek the application of ZERP to EU members immediately because I quote Mr Mimica as a test of our further negotiating position in the negotiations with the Union, so that he would then neglect the position of a well-malled Brussels commissioner that no one in Croatia only knows what Mr Mimica is up to in Brussels but we have all forgotten and, as a matter of fact, until yesterday as part of the SDP election campaign as a sort of spirit. Afterwards, Milanovic tells the HDZ governments that Plenkovic's mother, Jadranka Kosor, is therefore talking about the Slavic maritative traits of the Croatian people, which raises the question, so, after the campaign, Milanovic's corn comes to the government, after which the ZERP applies to the members of the EU and neither does it. Therefore, independent of Croatia support this decision proposal could have been better, and I suppose it would have been better if it hadn't come to pre-election time and for pre-election purposes. You could object to him, first of all, if he had not been sufficiently different from sovereignty and sovereign rights in the assessment of the situation, and those two concepts were not the same as we heard. In order to provide for the fluidity of certain standards of the Convention and to fail to apply the practice of other States which seek to exploit these legal irregularities in order to ensure a higher degree of protection of their rights, the majority of countries which have declared an exclusive economic belt in their laws regulated and issues related to artificial constructions at sea almost without exception extending their powers to those given to them by the Convention, etc. Some have prescribed additional restrictions on cable and pipeline, and there are examples in the international community for a whole series of other restrictions and conditions for which the applicant did not have the courage. He, moreover, guarantees the rights and freedoms very liberally to others in the third proposed decision, which in fact disabling the meaning of the decision itself in one part of it. There is no valid explanation why this decision is delayed for one year, it is clear that its effective implementation requires funding, but it is clear that first until the next budget is adopted it should not wait one year, there is no reason for the decision to effectively take effect, therefore legal political consequences, and not only their effective implementation. So, Madam State Secretary, Mr Plenkovic's issue of declaration is the question of the principle of no kuna, not EUR, the state reason Mr Plenkovic's horizon is yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139571	I thank Mr. Hasanbegovic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Nikola Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139572	So, as far as the remarks you made are concerned, this is not a pre-election proposal because this proposal was sent to the procedure a year and two months ago, so if you all have, here I call on the other MPs some kind of amendment or that things can be better explained we're open, so this isn't written now but a year and two months ago and submitted to the procedure, and now we've gathered your signatures to get this debated. As far as the application is concerned, we put in place a year, so Croatia could prepare this one, but we don't mind, taking effect with the date of adoption, and this one, as far as it goes, you can give me the replica of my colleague Hasanbegovic, you don't need a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This one, and as far as the other matters are concerned, here we ourselves have referred some amendments to this decision, but we have sent an amendment to the HDZ, or we have used their response when they supported the exclusive economic band and we have proposed this as our amendment to a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt, so I would like to know how their HDZ colleagues will vote in favour of this amendment. And as far as the other proposals are concerned, we don't have any problems, so if some things can be made clear that you have a chance throughout this whole debate, and it's going to take a while to see that we've heard a lot, you have a chance to go to the club to write an amendment, this one we'll accept without a problem if this one makes sense and if it still explains some things. So this isn't written in a hurry, it's written, and I think it's well written, but if there are some things that can be fixed, and it can always be better, we're willing to accept it as yours, as your suggestion. As for these other things that have been presented, I also warned in my debate on these changes of attitudes that were with the SDP and HDZ, so it is quite clear that HDZ changed its position on this issue, not only at the time of Ivo Sanader, but also this set that sits here in the Croatian Parliament, so here is our vice president who was one of the key people of the patriotic coalition who then supported the exclusive economic belt, I expect that he will not change his position, and other means the representatives who are sitting there all of them, and during the time of Tomislav Karamark, have certain roles, so I expect this attitude not to change. The secretary of state came here with the view that it is not necessary to declare an exclusive economic belt, but it is logical because it defends the current position of the government, and we all know why the government's position is what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139573	Thank you. We have several replicas, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139574	Dear comrade Grmoya, why this has only come today, I don't know, when our signatures were sought, we gave them as always immediately. What is important, we will not renovate, this is neither a legal issue nor a professional question, therefore, it is a first-class political issue and a matter of political will, I agree with Mr. Klisovic, the government has correctly answered. So, we're not interested in the legal background, we're interested in political will, she's got or isn't, in the government mg. Plenkovic doesn't have that political will. We will not ask, propose any additions, it would be an additional alibi for this technical Croatian-Serbian coalition to reject that conclusion, so let the conclusion be drawn may be complemented, may be [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Maritime law [[Employer: A colleague...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] change, etc. [[Intruder:...hasanbegović]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139575	My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139576	So, feel free to make amendments because here we are in a different position, we are proposing, and we will as promoters, not the Government, but we as promoters will accept your amendments, so good government, but we as proposings, then they will become, so if we accept an integral part of our proposal, and then they will manifest themselves about whether they will accept it or not. What I mean is, I agree with you that this is a political will, a colleague of Hasanbegovic is rarely in the assembly, so he doesn't know how this goes, you can now hurt the Rules of Procedure to answer me. So here, I invite both you and all the other MPs if they have any suggestions to make if it's something that's real and okay, we'll take it without a problem. After all, you've helped us to come to this debate and we're recasting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139577	Thank you. Comrade Hasanbegovic, have you had any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or anything? Oh, no? Okay, thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139578	I listened to your presentation, you asked one rhetorical question, how the HDZ would put itself on the subject of their own amendment, which in its own time handed over on the subject of the economic belt, so we know that it will reject it because we know that HDZ is a credible party only in hypocrisy, in lies and in the fraud of voters, they lie and deceive people, I will not say a word from the seventh century, but since 90. when they promised a better life to the Croatian man. Instead of a better life in its own country, Croatian people today must seek happiness in other countries, children are getting smaller, what our future is, the question is, but I want to tell you that HDZ is in error, I realized more than 15 years ago, unfortunately, you are only recently, but it is never too late for such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139579	Thank you. My colleague Grmo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139580	So, I'm not a colleague of Pernar realized it recently, and I've been with HDZ since I got back from college, so, against HDZ and Stipa Gabric Jambe, and just because we got 19 and 12 mandates when we went to get some MPs and we took responsibility to change the Republic of Croatia, that doesn't mean that I chose HDZ or thought HDZ was something good, because then I thought it would be on the HDZ list for the elections, I went out on my own to the elections before the Croatian voters, and I hope that they will see through and that no option would need to think about these old structures at all, meaning changing the Republic of Croatia, but with new political options to change things in the Republic of Croatia, as is the case. in Italy or in another country where we have a coalition of two practically new political forces, so here I hope things like that happen. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[Intruder:...kole Grumo at the answer]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139581	Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139582	Dear counterpart Grmoja, I personally participated in these negotiations in 2015. when and formulated these conclusions of the patriotic coalition, but I remind you that again after the other elections we also put IGP as an important condition in negotiations with the HDZ and then they accepted it as one of our 7 guarantees. So, I'm actually constantly wondering, but seriously, parties should respect what they put into their programmes or in public displays and tell other parties and voters in the Republic of Croatia, so you should keep up with what you yourself have declared to be accepting in cooperation with another party with which you will form a government. How do you believe that when you give it up so easily?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139583	Thank you. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139584	So it's quite clear that all the promises made in the election, I understand that I was the deputy mayor and that everything you put into the program, you can't go into that 4th year. The mandate may be realized because you have some impression that things can be resolved faster, and in fact, then you encounter certain difficulties. And if you were against that attitude that you have made and that you do not want to do anything without having any arguments, I can't understand it. So I can understand that in the campaign someone says we're going to do it and then realize that, I don't know, there's no resolved property-legal relationship, it's not settled this or that, and it can't happen, but this is about something that is under the UN International Convention on the Law of the Sea, the law of every country and what the European Commission is calling us on. The only thing we could have if we declared this, some problem with the Italians, but I think it's worth it. I think the Italians will, too. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] in time to realize that it's our right, so they'll... [[Intruder:...kole Grumo]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139585	On behalf of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139586	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. So today we are talking about declaring an exclusive economic belt and at first we can ask ourselves what is the most important resource that Croatia has. It's often talked about some kind of development strategy, some bright future, and really what it is, which makes us a step ahead of our neighbours, which is why we're interesting and numerous other countries, which is why we're even interesting to the powers of the United States, Russia or China. And the answer is actually very simple. The most important strategic resource that the Republic of Croatia has is our Adriatic Sea. So going out to the Adriatic Sea in a very long coast, on a very long coast, which among other things, is located ahead as we've heard over 1200 islands. And it's always been very interesting to everyone to the extent that the same sea tried to take away from us in all ways. Many masters came here, we often listened to foreign languages on our Adriatic, but here we end up in the Republic of Croatia with the fact that we still can't say that we are the complete masters of the Adriatic Sea. When it comes to the issue of the Adriatic Sea, we must ask ourselves, therefore, how do we even manage this sea, which is primarily important to mention, covers 23,000 square miles. So we have a sea, a bigger area than Slovenia has state territory. So we have a vast territory that we have little to deal with, and we see it first by the fact that the sea is increasingly polluted, which is becoming less and less fish in it. So in the Adriatic Sea over the last half century, 40% of living organisms have been destroyed, 40%. We also see that the entire habitats on the sea floor are being destroyed, we see that concessions are being given without a clear plan, often harmful on the Adriatic, we see that they are being done numerous, we are free to say crazy things like throwing NATO bombs, we also see that because of the foreign states industry in the Adriatic, there is an increasing pollution, there is a question of ecological sustainability at all, and we have to ask ourselves whether we will not only have living organisms in the Adriatic, but whether we will have clean water at all. In 2015, the World Fund for Nature activists warned that as much as 93% of fish species were overfished from the Adriatic, that the balance, the biobalance, has been completely disturbed. That practically all living organisms in the Adriatic have come to a protected list of animals, that virtually all sea turtles, all mammals, shells, snails, sharks and fish have been destroyed in the Adriatic. Turtles, at least according to what is written in the scientific magazines in the Adriatic, exist for 150 million years, 150 million years, and now threatens to destroy them. Does it concern anyone in this assembly at least for a moment to wonder how it is possible that something that exists 150 million years in 10 years might not exist anymore? To what limit can human irresponsibility, or human greed, selfishness, and so on think for a short period of time? As we protect the Adriatic, says Madam Secretary of State, but we protect it extremely ineffectively. Penalties are so small that all laws are highly worth breaking. In particular, infringers of people from, ships from foreign countries, above all Italians who deliberately even enter the fish's nests like those of the island of Palagrega and who are so impertinent that they come practically to the Croatian coast itself. According to the State Secretary, the Prime Minister, that in fact our sea is already protected by ZERP and that ZERP and the exclusive economic belt are one and the same, however, it is not in practice. Because if that were the case, then all the countries in the world would declare ZERP and not declare an exclusive economic belt. All the countries of Europe that go out to the North Sea, that is to say, to the Mediterranean, or even to those coming out to the Black Sea, which is practically a lake and not a sea, have declared an exclusive economic belt. The only three countries that have not been declared an exclusive economic belt are Turkey, which is not members of the EU, Greece and Croatia. Turkey and Greece do not have only because there is great tension between the two countries, political tension, is practically at the border of military conflict, and therefore the issue is not resolved. Croatia has given up an exclusive economic belt only because it has been pressured by the EU. Short and clear. Croatia has given up its exclusive economic belt because of pressure, we have given up even that ZERP we declared in 2003 and are now telling us, meaning 11 years in a row how this issue will be resolved in the European spirit. Please answer the secretary of state, what is a European spirit, here I don't know what a European spirit is, is it a spirit from a bottle or is it some spirit from Aladdin's lamp? What kind of spirit is that? You're giving me that term, I'd like it here if there's an encyclopedia, let me explain it by being ignorant of what a European spirit is. Is it a spirit when Italian President Tajani and Croatian Prime Minister Plenkovic meet and then they agree not only to give them the sea but also to give them Croatian territory. Is that the spirit? Here, I really don't know, so if you can teach me about this, perhaps the Croatian public would be very pleased. What's the difference between ZERP and IGP means we can protect our sea 12 nautical miles from the coast, and by the ZERP, we could protect 200, 200 nautical miles from the coast practically to the Italian coast. You say, you say we have no way to defend an exclusive economic belt. Since we have no way to defend, do we declare an exclusive economic belt that will get us pirates into our seas? So if there are international laws, they are respected, and they are not broken. Do you know that in the Pacific there are islands of a state like Nauru that have 18,000 times the size of an exclusive economic belt than the territory of that state? Whether they can control it physically, naturally, that they can't, and if someone breaks their space, doesn't violate them. You're saying to introduce an exclusive economic belt we have to pay 10 million kuna, so what's the reason, is it really a problem 10 million kuna that we can't introduce an exclusive economic belt. How much do we lose every year because we don't have an exclusive economic belt or not, why don't we spend the ZERP? Are you aware of the situation to say Iceland because of the exclusive economic belt did not want to join the EU at all, only because of it. Norway did not want to join the EU for this. Why is this exclusive economic belt so important to them, and it's so irrelevant to you? Explain here, that difference to the citizens. So it's so important to them that they didn't even want to join the EU, and we're giving up our sea. For what? We're afraid of who. Why do we give in to someone all the time? Why did we give in to the rules for importing fruits and vegetables, why we gave in to shipyards, why, why we give in to the Chinese when they come here to Croatia so we give them not everything they need and what they don't need to build roads, to build railroads, stadiums, Kumrovec, I don't know what everything, ports, bridges, etc. Do we not know how to preserve anything ourselves? Do we not know how to develop for ourselves? Why do you insist on kneeling on your knees? Why don't you have that much, you don't have that much confidence? Do you know that even the EU itself advocates declaring itself in Croatia an exclusive economic belt, that they have absolutely nothing, nothing against it. You say, among other things, that we don't need an economic belt because we have to let the Italians into our seas and take out the surplus means a catch. But when they enter our seas they don't pay us that fee and on the other side of this overfishing, so I'm excessively repeating once more I didn't say, said these world agencies, independents who follow the state. Croatia is traditionally a maritime country where the sea represents an important transport route, a source of food, and a backbone of economy and tourism. It is undeniable that under the conditions of the endangered fish fund, increasing threats to the marine environment and biodiversity, the declaration of an exclusive economic belt as a regime that covers all important elements of coast conservation and must be an important step in the effort to protect Croatia's sovereignty, Croatian economy, Croatian territory, Croatian future and all its natural resources. At the end of the day, I would ask the secretary state and the HDZ gentlemen, who, apparently, are more interested in these personal accounts than we witnessed today in the assembly, and we see the last days in other places, why should we give anything to anyone? Why would they give a gift to someone, why would they give a glass of water, let alone give tens of thousands of square miles of our sea? I know it's going to sound a little declassified, but I'm sure you've heard that statement, and you still remember the ones who went to school in the former state, and we're not going to do our own thing. As things change in the meantime, so today we obviously have a lady of our own, we want someone else's. The coats turn quickly, quickly the atheists become the greatest Catholic, quickly from the party of the beloved leader become a member of the party of another beloved leader, etc. And we Croats are slowly left with no sea and no land and no air and become strangers in our own homeland. So in conclusion, let me put it this way, the Living Wall supports the declaration of an exclusive economic belt because it's a subject that has the primary meaning for us and we put it in the program long before MOST existed in all respect. The announcement of an exclusive economic belt is an ideal opportunity for a stronger performance on the international scene for the stabilisation of internal opportunities, for greater earnings and greater sustainability of our greatest treasure of the Adriatic. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139587	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139588	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. For two hours now, we have been discussing the proposal for a decision to declare an exclusive economic belt and in the past two hours a series of inaccuracy, indifference, ignorance of the problem, misunderstandings of what is the territorial sea, which is internal seawater, which is an epicontinental belt, which is a protected ecological fishing belt and which is an exclusive economic belt. When we talk about an exclusive economic belt, when we talk about ZERP, then we can talk about the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia by 1 July 2013 and about the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia after 1 July 2013 when we became a member of the EU. Why? Because one position of Croatia was when we were not a member of the EU and at that time the declaration of the exclusive economic belt or the declaration of ZERP would be one position where the Republic of Croatia would benefit and be sovereign in the exercise of its sovereign rights, which provides us with an exclusive economic belt. After 1 July of the Republic of Croatia and not only Croatia, but all other EU Member States which have declared their economic belts or derivatives from that economic belt, whether it is an external belt, whether it is an ecological belt, whether the fishing belt, at that time, is a common EU water. And in these waters, the EU's common fisheries policy, if we talk about fisheries policy. Therefore, Croatia was... Under the International Convention on Law, it must declare an exclusive economic belt and no one has prevented Croatia from doing so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why in this House, I have talked about it many times in this House and participated in discussions from 2003 until today and this was before and in 2003 when the Government of Ivica Racana declared ZERP with a delay similar to that proposed here for a year. So it was about whether Croatia would declare an exclusive economic belt or a protected ecological, fishing belt that has been declared for many in Croatia, and then I believe for parliamentary representatives in a strange executor of a protected ecological fishing belt. Then Croatia rated as a sovereign and independent state that it would declare a protected ecological fishing zone that could possibly... If an exclusive economic belt were immediately declared, we would probably not be discussing it here today but then the Government of Ivica Racana decided to declare a protected ecological fishing zone, which is immediately clear to us, over 95% of the content of the exclusive economic belt is located in ZERP except for the content relating to the construction of artificial islands and the exploitation of the energy of sea and wind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, when we talk about the installation of artificial islands, many of us here do not know that although he is not a component of ZERP, the rise of artificial islands stems from the fact that a coastal state such as Croatia itself has an epicontinental belt, then those artificial islands that has not declared ZERP can be built based on the fact that as a coastal state, there is an epicontinental belt and we there, regardless of the IGP is not declared, we can set up platforms and what we are doing today by using gas in the northern Adriatic, where platforms that allow us to have an epicontinental belt as a coastal state. However, we cannot, for example, use wind energy, lift windmills, but it seems to me that today's debate here actually looks like a struggle against the windmill, Don Quijote's struggle, and there is no great benefit for the Republic of Croatia from this debate. There is no reason why the declaration of an exclusive economic belt in relation to the ZERP, which is, it seems to me, was also said by the State Secretary, nothing contributes significantly to Croatia. And I have not heard my dear friends from any of you, but from none of you, which we will change by declaring the IGP tomorrow in relation to the fishing policy in Croatia, which will have the kind of concession of Croatian fishermen by declaring the IGP that makes it impossible for them to ZERP. What will we do in terms of the ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea by declaring the IGP, which does not allow it to become ZERP? So tell me, when you convince me that such a strategic thorn for the Republic of Croatia is important to change the position of the Republic of Croatia in the world and within the EU, then we can discuss a decision on this decision proposed by MOST. Any smart country that runs its own sovereign policy, which is what the Republic of Croatia does, decides on the best, most appropriate, most appropriate moment by declaring the belts that are the basis of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, and why do not you wonder how it took a long time for one Italy to declare the ecological, one Great Britain to declare an economic, one Iceland to declare an economic belt, etc., not all of them declared the moment when the Convention allowed them to do so, not because they did so before they made the criteria that are their strategic national interest. That's why we're 11 years old, 10 years old. here in HS you made different decisions that you mentioned in your decision. We first declared the ZERP 2003 with a year's notice, so in 2004, we delayed it until the signing of the Common Fisheries Treaty, and then we decided that the agreement was not signed, 2006. On 15 December, they again said they would enter into force for the EU Member States, so in order to block our EU accession negotiations, we were 15 again, it seems to me, in March 2008, that until the conclusion of an agreement in the European spirit, ZERP will not apply to EU Member States. Why did we do that? Because the majority political parties in Croatian society had a unique view that the basis of the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia is the entry into the EU and between the fact that we would be blocked and the continuation of negotiations on the other side of the EU we have suspended the implementation of the ZERP for the EU Member States, but ZERP for all third countries in the world is in force and it has been ratified in the UN secretariat, the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Republic of Croatia today, that area has been set up as a protected ecological fishing band and applies to all third countries, and also to EU Member States, because at the time, in the introduction, when the Republic of Croatia entered the EU, Croatian ZERP has become a common EU water, and this would become an exclusive economic Belt that it was declared. Therefore, the same policy that the Republic of Croatia is today leading in a protected ecological fishing band would be implemented and would be obliged to implement if it were declared and exclusive economic belt. And if we don't understand it, if we don't understand it and that as a state, a country that can declare an exclusive economic belt whenever it wants to, and that nothing important will change it, we will insist on political debates in HS is more important to us than IGP or ZERP, and as far as ZERP contributes to us, nothing more, not according to the protection of the Adriatic, nor to the protection of the fishing fund would contribute to the economic belt. And I think that as a responsible government, we need to know what the right moment is if we want to maybe meet our own satisfaction, declare ourselves great sovereigns, open a debate in the HS and declare an economic belt. I think that at this point, and we heard it from the Government's opinion, we should absolutely implement all those measures that are prescribed by the EU, protecting the fishing fund, protecting the Adriatic and the Adriatic Sea. When we talk about the political aspect of this decision, let's say a colleague of Grmoj and say that the patriotic coalition has agreed to declare the IGP, so I will say two things in that sense. So, after that, it was probably signed an agreement, a coalition agreement, followed by a government that had six ministers from the Most and a vice-president from the Most, and that government lasted a few 5, 6, 7 months, but had all those ministers in its structure, in their jurisdiction, played a crucial role in the economic belt. You had the Minister of Fisheries, you had the Minister of Energy, you had the Minister of Police, you had the Minister of Justice, except for the Minister of Maritime Affairs, all the other ministers, whose implementation is the responsibility of the Economic Belt, were in the hands of the Most. No, as far as I can remember, I was a parliamentary representative, not once was it said here in HS if we didn't declare the IPG breaking the coalition, which I didn't, I don't remember. The second government came, again MOST had the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Energy, if we talk about the energy aspect of the economic belt which enables, therefore, the exploitation of energy, the sea and the wind, had the Deputy Prime Minister, I did not see at any time that you were, so that you would be ready for... The coalition, but you have come into conflict with HDZ on the issue of Agrokor, so it turns out that HDZ was right there because we have, in this way and without you, solved the issue of Agrokor. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what am I saying? Today you are trying to transfer HDZ to the fact that no IGP has been declared and I accept as president of the HDZ Club that, until the EU accession, HDZ may have declared a protected ecological coastal belt or IGP anyway. But there was a question at the time whether the negotiations would end for Croatia's accession to full membership. That was and these were discussions here at HS, a colleague of Klisovic knows it very well. He's not here today, except for him. There's no one from the SDP in HS. These discussions were conducted at least 20 times in those 10 years in HS and measured between one and the other. At that time, the majority Croatian parties decided to declare themselves ZERP and declared it to be related, to report to the UN to know that Croatia has it and that it is not an open sea. It's not the open sea, my dear friends, ZERP is not the open sea. For no one, not for the Italians, and especially not for the Japanese or the Mexicans or the Americans. Today, by entering Croatia into full EU membership, it has become a protected eco-fishing belt representing the EU's common waters. And there, like the Italians in their part of the Adriatic, we are obliged to act when the fisheries fund is based on the common fisheries policy, so we too are obliged to act in our part of the Adriatic, as well as in all other EU members, including Italy. So, I have to say, you didn't listen very carefully, you didn't convince me, except for the need to prove our patriotism, that we wanted to show ourselves to great sovereigns, regardless of how much we wouldn't get in terms of the content of a protected ecological and fishing belt, so he would make a very big contribution to the new strategic economic... You didn't convince me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That at this point it is justified or that Croatia will get something from it. A study to which Mr. Grmoje connects, done before Croatia enters the EU, and I agree with that. We lost until we joined the EU because we didn't ZERP has been applied to EU Member States. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I could do more, Mr. Vice President. A lot of it, but there's no replica, so I'm done with it. [[Intruder: In this debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139589	On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague of Nikola Grmo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139590	So, my colleague Bačić, I am pleased that you have admitted that because of your responsibility Croatia has failed to use the benefits of the IGP declaration, which are huge and monetary amounts without talking about these other aspects. As for the MOST itself, it is quite clear to you, I think, that we have insisted on declaring the IGP, but there have been so many conflicts in this first government that have started from the very beginning, that simply, there have been things that have ultimately led to the government's fall, it has been the Consultant affair, and in the second Government, you know that we have insisted that the first decision of the Government be to launch consultations and I don't know whether you were at those negotiations, when Prime Minister Plenkovic asked that the arbitration with Slovenia be completed and that after the arbitration decision to declare the IGP. We have a decision, but nothing has been done. So, you've offered us diplomatic reasons why we shouldn't be going in that direction right now, we've accepted that as reasonable people, but we told you to start consulting and then after that we'll declare IGP. So we never gave up on that. But it turned out in time, that you had the figure in your pocket the whole time, and during the Patriot coalition, where you clearly said you needed to declare the IGP and so, this one during this Plenkovic government, when those consultations only served as a sort of trick. Our position on this matter is unchangeable. After all, that is why in this decision that we made a year and a half ago, a year and a half ago, we put it into effect, so a year since we came to meet, as far as these remarks of yours were concerned, but those remarks were therefore for the sake of order, and it is clear that you are truly willing to declare the IGP or have had before the accession of Croatia to the EU, which you admitted to being responsible, it is such a pity that in a serious state the question would certainly open up to those responsible for such damage to the courts for high treason. In every serious state, this issue would be raised, but in Croatia that is not the case, and you also have no arguments why you will not do it now because you are asking us here what our arguments are. What are your arguments about IGP not being declared? What are your arguments, Mr. Bacic, not to be declared? And if there's no difference between ZERP and IGP, then why don't we declare IGP? Why do you, as a wise politician, allow here the opposition to resolve you like this? And you and Prime Minister Plenkovic, if there's no difference? And why all the countries did this, not only those outside the EU, but also those within the EU, have declared with the time gap of the IGP because they have found that such a regime is best able to protect their national interests. And you claim it's not because you don't want to come into conflict. Everything says Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement, or answer to the question I asked him, when he called for historical developments about the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, the arrival of President Cossiga, that is a clear message. He didn't tell me then IGP shouldn't be declared because we're all already, all right now we're using our sovereigns and we're consummating. No, he said you don't remember the merits of Mr. Cossig, Italy for international recognition of Croatia. So it is clear that in this debate you are those who are without arguments, neither you nor the secretary of state answered why we would not declare the IGP if there is no difference and if no one will be angry about it and they will be angry because there is an apparent difference, it also stands in response to the patriotic coalition, the difference between the ZERP and the IGP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139591	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grmoy, if this debate were to be conducted outside this pre-election campaign, I suppose it would be different than it is now, so you might hear the arguments, which is that every sovereign state, the smart state, decides to declare any of the sea belts in accordance with the International Convention on Law must measure the most appropriate moment and what it will declare. Not all countries in the world have declared an economic belt, some are a fishing belt, some are an ecological belt, some are an archaeological belt, some are an outside belt. So each state measured itself, decided what it would declare at a certain point. We declared 2003. ZERP, later he is suspended and once again for EU member states, but he has declared us nothing at this time and you should know that the Croatian state has some more Okay. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139593	My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139594	So, colleague Bačić, you said that every reasonable state itself estimates when it will do so and you admitted yourself that you were as president of the HDZ Club that you made a mistake at the time, which means you were not reasonable. And now we should trust you to be reasonable. So those who were not reasonable and who made mistakes and did not extend Croatian sovereign rights and thus damaged the Croatian state should now believe that you and the Secretary of State are reasonable, that is what you are asking of us. And we're asking you to declare an exclusive economic belt if there's no difference already, if there's no difference. That's what my colleague Bacic's about. I don't know, really this looks like a struggle with the windmills, convinced, means just like that, means to convince someone who admits he's made mistakes and who now assures us he's doing something right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139595	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, thank you. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. You had three replicas. Don't be angry, but here's a really sweet will, but we can't give you a word. So, I'm sorry. On behalf of SDP's representative, respected colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139596	Thank you, Vice President, I welcome once again Secretary of State Metelko Zgombic. And once again to all of you colleagues in the assembly as well as the Croatian public if they follow us at this point I will repeat what is the consistent position of the SDP on the issue of the exclusive economic belt. It is also communicating in MOST in 2015 in writing when talks were held on a possible coalition. So it was then sent, the coalition of Croatian growth, i.e. the SDP, is acceptable exclusively to the economic belt, i.e. the protected ecological fishing band known as the ZERP, as well as its implementation in accordance with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. So I repeat once again, it is acceptable to have an exclusive economic belt, i.e. a protected ecological fishing zone, belt, ZERP and their implementation in accordance with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. And it's... The position of the SDP not only since 2015, but also before and no matter what Mr Hasanbegovic pointed out today, because of these positions and political parties who know how to protect national interests and Croatian ships are moving in this zone and Croatian inspectors are controlling this zone of the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because that's by... Mr Hasanbegovic in terms of political... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then this area would be patrolled by Italian ships today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, fortunately, it's not like that. The explanation of the SDP position is very simple in areas I must go beyond national jurisdiction, so outside the state area of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has a declared epicontinental belt and enjoys the sovereign rights of research and exploitation of the mineral and other wealth of the seabed and the underworld. In the water column above the epicontinental belt, so it refers to the bottom, so the water above it, there we have declared a protected ecological fishing belt, known as the ZERP, and we also enjoy all sovereign rights to the judication of the regime of the exclusive economic belt. So there are no differences, or there are only two elements that have already been highlighted in the debate and it is not our right to build artificial islands that we do not currently have plans to build, and if someone convinces me that Croatia has plans to build and that it is useful to build them, we can very easily and easily change the decision on ZERP and insert that element. In doing so, it should be stressed that, even under today's legislation and our rights, we have the right to artificial installations in the area of ZERP for, say, researching mining wealth such as oil or gas and we do not have the right to produce energy by using the sea, so this is about tides, tides, this is about currents of the sea. All those who know the sea, the Croatian Adriatic knows that the level of tides and tides is not such that it would be worth using that resource to produce energy because it is not like when you go to the Netherlands and when you see that a meter or more of it you have a difference in tides and senses. We don't have that, and that's why it's not worth it. There is, of course, wind energy, but we are all aware of how many wind parks are on the Croatian coast, so our capacities are currently such that we build on land, not on the sea. I remind you once again that during the SDP of Racan's government on 3 October 2003, the Croatian Parliament made a decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, declaring the contents of the exclusive economic belt. With regard to the modern rights of research, exploitation, conservation and management of living natural resources, waters beyond the borders of the territorial sea and jurisdiction with regard to scientific research of the sea and protection and conservation of the marine environment. This decision therefore established the ZERP. From that date, the provisions of Chapter IV shall apply on the basis of the decision in question. The maritime code governing the Institute of the Economic Belt. So I repeat again all the rights from the economic belt Croatia enjoys besides building artificial islands and exploiting the sea's energy, if we have plans for these two things we can also talk about these two things. Following the 2003 decision taken by the Assembly on the proposal of Racan's government, the Croatian Parliament subsequently made three more decisions on ZERP, limiting the use of ZERP for various political reasons and various political contexts. In 2004, the parliament decided by a new decision that ZERP would start to apply after Croatia and the European Community concluded a partnership agreement in fisheries. In 2006, the Assembly set out that the ZERP would in any event start to apply on 1 January 2008, and in 2008. The Croatian Parliament has decided that ZERP will temporarily not apply to EU members until a joint agreement is reached in the European spirit. So that's what we all know. With Croatia's entry into the EU and our seas, the EU's common fishing sea has become the same as either Italian or French or Spanish. And the basic principle of such a sea is that fishing vessels from EU Member States have equal access to water and marine resources within the EU. According to both Italian in Croatian and Croatian in Italian. However, what is particularly important is that in the area of the entire economic zone or the ZERP, Croatian inspectors have the right to exercise their jurisdiction and thus point to Croatian sovereignty in this area, they are also EU inspectors, because the full acquis or fisheries common policy control whether they are properly implemented in the territory of the Croatian ZERP or we can say the Croatian exclusive economic belt. Therefore, Croatia's sovereign rights are not compromised, Croatia consumes them, the position the SDP has taken is an optimal position in line with our international obligations and in line with our national interests. We are not at a loss, nor should we be, nor should we be at a loss, but if we have plans like I said to build artificial islands or technology that would show that the usability of sea tides and tides or sea currents to produce energy is good, positive and useful then we can also change the decision on ZERP and include these two rights and have a full exclusive economic belt. But de facto we have it today and whatever those who present themselves as sovereigns say, it would be good at least as they admit they don't know what the open sea is, the epicontinental belt or the territorial sea to learn it, so it might be easier to answer these questions that have their own political dimension, but they certainly have their own professional legal dimension. What SDP has always done is, using the profession, it has always protected the national interests that we have and founded them firmly in the profession and international law. And that's why no one can blame us, and everything else that I saw here today in the assembly is actually a political conflict between the right hand and the right a little bit more right for the right political body. This, basically with an exclusive economic belt, has nothing, and unfortunately the debate is conducted in terms and terms of the 19th century sovereign, and not the 21st century, and there should be little study of how the concept of sovereignty is developed, and then a little more competent to defend Croatia's colors in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139597	I thank my colleague Klisovic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139598	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, after a lot of debate on this subject, arguments and counterarguments, reading everything about this extremely important topic not only about what is written in Croatia, what politicians have said, as scientists have said, is very important to me how other EU Member States have actually done. I think it is important to tell Croatian citizens too, because we would not want the impression that we are in the MostA for declaring an exclusive economic belt as some national whim, some unlived sovereignty, something that is prevailing in the EU, that other Member States have not actually done. The reality is very different. In fact, all EU Member States that have access to the open sea have declared an exclusive economic belt, large, small countries in the 1990s and later, but in fact you would have made it much easier to list those who did not. So, it did not make Greece because of the dispute it has with Turkey, although it indirectly sent one note to the UN declaring its epicontinental belt, Croatia has suspended ZERP towards EU Member States, but all other Member States have declared an exclusive economic belt. Let's start with the big states, France has declared it, but watch out much earlier in the Atlantic, but only in the Mediterranean in 2012. The United Kingdom declared the exclusive economic belt in 2013 not because they were thinking about leaving the EU at the time, so they were preparing for it, but simply because they were such recommendations from the European Commission. Spain did it in the Atlantic in '78, but watch out in the Mediterranean in 2013. For example, in a small practically closed Baltic Sea, all countries have declared an exclusive economic belt, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Latvia, Latvia, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, of course and Germany all. Italy has declared an ecologically protected zone, but on the opposite side of the Adriatic, so in the northwestern Mediterranean after, of course, because the French also declared their exclusive economic belt because the Spanish did so, and so did the Italians, but in the Ligurski and Tiren Sea, but not on the other hand in the Adriatic Sea. So all the seas of both the Baltic and the North and the Mediterranean are, in fact, limited by state exclusive economic belts. Only the Adriatic Sea doesn't. Isn't it strange that Italy declared an ecologically protected belt in the northwest part of the Mediterranean, so in a section bordering France's exclusive economic belt and Spain's exclusive economic belt. There, therefore, all three EU Member States have declared either the exclusive economic belt or, in the case of Italy, a protected environmental belt. Malta did it, Cyprus did it, and we're coming to the Adriatic. The Adriatic is unfortunately an exception. And we propose a declaration of an exclusive economic belt like all other EU member states did, I said, except for Greece because of the dispute with Turkey and Italy. And that tells you that we do not advocate some sovereign right that others have not exploited.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139599	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. On behalf of the Club representative of MOSTA independent list esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139600	Thank you, dear colleague Podolnjak, I have now looked at the Croatian media no media but one portal has conveyed a single word about this debate that was also the interest of the ruling ones, so they have put this debate on the table so late, but you know who writes about this late debate in the Croatian Parliament, Slovenian media. So, the Slovenian media is writing about this debate, they realize how important and important this is, no matter how much it's being discussed, thanks to the president of the assembly and the HDZ like this, so late. And it shows that no one cares what Croatia will do about this matter, whether it remains under this regime or extends its sovereign rights. Unfortunately, while ruling who control a good part of the media in Croatia, and those who do not control them, it is now such a time to simply not follow the Croatian Parliament, perhaps HINA is transferring something and then take over the remaining portals from what you dear colleagues have been saying here today. It is simply an interest of HDZ to discuss this issue outside of the public's focus and that is what they have been trying to do today, after the current morning which is under a great deal of public attention where MPs also mean after he has finished simply consider that for that day all the debate in the Croatian Parliament has ended, they have put this point because they simply have no arguments. And what we have here and which shows how much this debate has taken is the recognition of the president of the HDZ Club that they have made a mistake not declaring in Croatia's EU accession process an exclusive economic belt. If this debate was worth anything, it was worth it because of the confession, however, the recognition of the error did not lead to an apology. So, when a colleague Bacic admitted that error could have been made on behalf of Croatian governments that made HDZ apologize for this failure, and what we do know here is that they are now acting reasonablely because they do not want to declare an exclusive economic belt, they do not want to extend the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia to the sea, and here is Professor. The bottom line made one good argument, why didn't Italy do it on the one hand, on the other hand? Well, because this condition fits them, this is the state of the country that has a much stronger fleet, which means it can exploit a situation like this and a situation like this, of course, that suits them, but that's a less important argument to me. The argument that matters to me and that I initially asked here and I read as a question that I didn't get an answer to is, so why, when there's no difference between the ZERP and the IGP, why don't you accept this proposal or make some kind of suggestion, it means, because there's no difference anyway, and if there's no difference, then no one's going to complain about it. Why is the Slovenian media now following this debate if there is no difference between the declaration, meaning the exclusive economic belt and the state we have today. What is recognised here by counterpart Bačić that if we look at this report by the European Commission because of the non-proclaim, it means that the exclusive economic belt from EUR 172 to EUR 279 million per year, so much damage has been done by the HDZ Government of the Republic of Croatia, almost EUR 300 million per year, and counterpart Bačić has not been able to tell us about it, he just admitted the mistake and the rest is on it. And that's one irresponsible policy, one policy that constantly works against Croatian state interests, and that's not just the case here when we talk about declaring an exclusive economic belt, that's the case in all other aspects. We have a situation around INA, handing over INA to Hungarian hands, in which Mr. Bacic also has a certain way at least indirectly participated, so we have the situation now around Slavonia and this state-owned land that was in the concession under the Agrokora, now it is trying to force the Commissioners to sign to surrender to the new owners and this is visible, meaning, and in relation to Serbia, if we are looking at Chapter 23 and 24 opened by HDZ Minister Miro Kovac during the technical government where Justice Minister Ante Sprlje was protesting on the same day at the ministry's site when Tihomir Oreshkovic was brought down as prime minister and then it is that the damage is somehow diminished, the established commission that should be monitored by the implementation of the measures in chapters 23 and 24 and that the matter is worse, neither the commission is calling out how you are responsible you are, how much you are, as you are in the same way, the same way you can apply in the same way. So once again, the economic benefits are very high, the environmental benefits are very high, so, from the announcement of the exclusive economic belt here I have this study, this is a summary of the study, so, the European Commission which speaks about this amount of almost EUR 279 million damage that you caused to the Croatian budget and indirectly, so to Croatian citizens, and the other things are, of course, brought to the debate itself. What I have announced to you is that we have here and certain amendments that we have sent, and they are actually drawn from your position, the position of the patriotic coalition around the exclusive economic belt, and it will be interesting to see how you will vote on these amendments. Once again, I want to repeat that no one controls the fishing, meaning that the number of blue fish, which leads to the fall of white fish, is in the apple cauldron, means that the ban is agreed, that it is the most fertile part that is in our waters, and that it is the same as the damage to Croatian fishermen because simply because the lack of control of the fish fund is at stake, and it is the cost of Croatian fishermen, and it is all your responsibility, Mr. Bačić, the respected state secretary, the damage you have done, means, are so great and I am responsible for saying that in the serious state someone would ask whether you should be judged for high treason because of what you have done, and your position, meaning, the attitude of the patriotic coalition here is clear, I am interested in how Vice-President HS Millian Brkić will vote on this issue since he was then the main negotiator, so that it means, with a good meaning of the importance of the government, which he is known by the Croatian government, that he/her name, and that he/H. So, as some colleagues had the opportunity to show it in the vote on closing the archives, but unfortunately this did not happen, all HDZ MPs voted to close the archives opened by MOST, and there is also a clear way in which HDZ, which in each campaign, speaks of lustration, and then votes to close the archives after the media had reached some documents that were compromised by chief adviser Andrej Plenkovic, Vladimir Seks, who turned out to be an UDBE associate under the code name of colleagues. So it's clear here that we simply have an unconsistent HDZ position on all issues, not just about declaring an exclusive economic belt. So I would once again invite all MPs to think carefully about how they will be asked about this issue because in the future someone will question the meaning of their decisions, will question their decisions and Croatian people, and will see who has at some point sided and defend Croatian national interests, and who has played differently. And this is your colleagues of HDZ who may have their own capital for some new exaggeration within your party that is very possible after these European, European elections. So here, once again, think about how important you will be to vote on this issue, I am glad that we have the support of most of the opposition, I would say the real opposition in the Croatian Parliament, my colleague from the SDP, how important this topic is to them, and that today they are not at all available, except for colleagues Klisovic, whose home issue is because of external affairs, but as far as I could see, I don't know what their position is, I don't think they support this proposal at all, so it looks like we're going to have again on the issue of the exclusive economic belt a large coalition of HDZ and SDP, as we did when we were choking on the referendums where 400,000 signatures of Croatian citizens, where they're being deleted under, where they're told you won't have the right to make a referendum statement in the electoral system. So, on all the key issues concerning Croatian citizens HDZ and SDP, let's also remember the election of constitutional judges, as we have reached an agreement against which we were very, very loud we didn't want to agree, so it's simply the old structures that control the entire system and that don't mean to give up their positions of power, which do not want to give the people any right to any decision. We have seen this through these attacks today on a referendum that, carried out by the trade unions, someone may think about unions this or that, but this referendum is completely legitimate and given the government's efforts to choke the referendum MOST will strongly support this referendum initiative because in these times of threat, it means any direct democracy, the direct declaration of citizens should be on the right side, not on the side on which HDZ is on. I think that I have presented all the important segments of the meaning of this proposal, behind it we stand firm and there will be more opportunities during this debate tonight and colleagues will have the meaning of individual debate, in which some other segments of importance will be touched by the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. I think fellow Dobrović will speak, and the rest of our MPs will join, I see that his colleague Sincic is with his individual debate. So here again I would like to thank everyone for the support, for the arguments they have made in this debate, and I hope that this will come to Croatian citizens, even though the ruling people have put meanings in these late hours, that we are discussing it so that the media will carry as little as possible what is happening here in the assembly and who is defending Croatian interests, and who is still working against Croatian interests and still has the cheeks to admit that they have made a mistake and do not apologize for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139601	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139602	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the injured Article 238 of my colleague, Mr. Grumo, twists my words, my speech, and that is why it does not offend because it is false. So I said that during Croatia's accession to full EU membership, all relevant political parties in Croatia decided that this was a strategic and national interest and that is why ZERP did not apply to EU Member States. However, MOSTA was neither when we entered the EU nor when Croatia was being created, therefore there is no collective memory that is a tabula of race, you don't know that time and you can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139603	I thank my esteemed colleague Bačić, I believe that he has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure and has not offended you but expressed his political position on some times and some views in the past. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139604	My colleague Branko Bačić, more of the MOST's representatives contributed to the creation of the Croatian state than you do, because there are more defenders at the Most Club and all who had or most who were in the war when they were older. Surely you are no greater defender than Mira Bulj, Slaven Dobrovic or Ines Strenje, I do not know that you, that you, that you are so famous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139605	I thank my colleague. Thank you, my colleague Grumoja. I beg you nicely, neither am I, nor are you a measuring unit for patriotism. [[You cashed in Branko, you cashed everything and how.]] So, don't call my colleague, Mr. Grmoy, you already have one warning you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't call for an article that was injured, so I'm asking you not to be too hypocritical about patriotism, neither are you, nor am I any measure of patriotism, and patriotism is shown every day by your actions. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed and please stay away from the abuse of the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, since you have already one warning I won't give you another reminder by taking away the word. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, Here you go, colleague Zekanovic. [[Intruder Zekanovic: I'm here]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139606	Dear Vice President HS, here we are today talking about Croatian territory although no one will like it. And the sea is an integral part of the Republic of Croatia, so apart from 56,000 km2 the sea has tens of thousands of km2 of land, there are seas, and these 24 000 km2 can also be Croatian territory, unfortunately they are not. You'll say it's not full jurisdiction. However, it is very interesting that almost all the countries in the Mediterranean have declared an economic belt, not Italy did, Turkey and Greece did not do it because of the dispute, and Italy did not do exactly what it was wise not to do because if it did not, then it can also enjoy the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea. There is one calculation of international independent economic experts that Italians per year only in the area of the ZERP or economic belt of the one that would belong to the Republic of Croatia, catches of EUR 200 million of fish and that is probably an accurate assessment, and if not correct, then it is actually reduced, it is a much larger amount. And then when someone who represents the Croatian government, and you're like a secretary of state, says we don't have the resources for something that's crucial, and that's protecting my territory, controlling my territory, and someone else here is catching 200 million euros of fish, and then it's all expensive for me to admit it, a little funny. Furthermore, I must say, Plenkovic's Government, so your government has very often raised hysteria about that, I will call it the dikado of the sea we call the Savadria Wave, the Slovenians call the Piran Bay, and that with Slovenians we have never really had unresolved disputes, we have never fought, the border on Sutli, the Cup, Dragonji is always the same in a millimeter, and then there is this one problem, these few km2 seas that we, I will say, have to leave to the Slovenians in order to join the EU and we often know how to get back on the subject and talk about the Slovenians in one way, unbrous neighbourly. On the other hand, we have Italy, which is our same good neighbouring country, all of it, all five, from which are voices like that. Mr. Tajanija about Italian Istria, about the Italian Dalmatia, and then we have Italy that takes 23 thousand and how much, almost 300 km2 of space because they almost enjoy it, because they exploit it, because they're hunting 200 million euros a year for fish and no one, and I'm just curious about why we and Slovenians, our good, dear neighbors, are constantly raising tensions for 2 km2 seas, and with Italians, our dear neighbours also don't raise tensions around 23,300 km2 seas, so little is it clear to me, and is this sea in the Savudry Valley and the Piran Bay more valuable than this sea, I think that Croatian territory is both of them and that we should take care of each other in the same way. I know, you're gonna say that but it's not Croatian territory, it's just about the sea column, about the air column. Dear Secretary of State, you know very well what I am saying, and here I will say that this is a political decision, so this is no longer a legal issue, it is not a legal question, this is as much as a question of the EUR, we all know that we will live as poorly and when we introduce the EUR as announced by Prime Minister Plenkovic, this EUR will bring in that first wave maybe even some price increase, in that second wave it may help those users of their credits, but what is certain, that EUR will make us very close to the more EU from which we will then come out much, much harder theoretically and where we will lose another very large part of our sovereignty, as well as this. So, the EUR is a political instrument, that Mr. Bukarica, a political instrument, if the UK had introduced the EUR-o would never be in Brexit's position, never Mrs. Secretary of State, never. In other words, if the Republic of Croatia or the Republic of Croatia introduces the euro, it is one step deeper in the EU. The key question, will the Croatian government, the Croatian prime minister finally start acting sovereignly? I don't think so, but here we have the same interesting thing, we have, for example. The Istanbul Convention, which the people say is wrong and raises 50,000 people in Ban Jelačić Square, 30 000 in Split, however, Prime Minister Plenkovic for saying so anyway, right? So he does what he makes the law he wants. In this case, we have again one sovereign decision by our Prime Minister Plenkovic, that he does not pass the law that the people will. Why? The first time he brought it in because it was the EU's answer, the second time it won't bring it in because it suits the EU, or its greater cohesion, it fits Brussels, and many times we stressed that Brussels's policy is actually our Prime Minister Plenkovic's policy. And now what is crucial, and today a colleague here asks me HDZ, he tells me Zekanovic, well and why you say it and you do it, do you know that you may politically fail to prosper much better in HDZ and then I try to explain to him that at the moment when the Prime Minister of a State says decisively and strongly I will protect Croatian national interests in our case, and then that turn will really happen. As long as our prime minister is watching the dictatorship of Brussels and until he hears and reads this law that is a good law and that would really bring prosperity, especially on the Adriatic coast, there is no help, there is no help. And the next step that will happen, which is exactly what your ministry or someone else will actually explain back here, will be, well, the Republic of Croatia is no longer sovereign at all, we are no longer a state, we are just a region within an EU amorphous, and that time will come, and the time will come when you will coalition with the SDP will come, not no longer nod your head this time to the left because you know that this coalition is being prepared and you know that SDP and HDZ are already in the coalition in the European Parliament. Five years ago. Your predecessor or predecessor of HDZ in that place would wave his head to the right, so they would wave when it was, when it was offered by the MOST, the big coalition, and now they're slowly not waving at all, and soon they're going to wave up and that's what's coming, we're about to lose sovereignty even bigger, because of this kind of power, and in the Republic of Croatia is really preparing a big coalition, and very soon, the same coalition that exists in the European Parliament, will soon happen in HS. So it is very good to always repeat to Croatian voters that HDZ has been through the cracks and SDP through the Socialist coalition partners for 5 years. in the European Parliament and that the coalition, if, of course, there are enough MPs, is also agreed on for the next term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139607	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. We have replicas, dear colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, you say that the Italians are hunting in ZERP, that they are hunting in ZERP just as they would if we adopted this decision. There wouldn't be any difference with the catch. But if there was no ZERP colleague Zekanovic, then we could hunt how willful they are, this way they can't, this way they know which fishing gears can be used, they know which ships, how many... Smaller than those ships could be to hunt in the ZERP. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because ZERP has been declared a fishing component, which is ZERP or IGP, however, from the moment it is declared, when declared by the EU Member State, it becomes a common European sea and any Member State that hunts in that sea, whether it is ZERP or was IGP, it must follow the rules that the Commission makes whether it is an IGP or a ZERP. Therefore, your argument that the Italians are hunting The money... [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139609	...respected colleague Bacic. My colleague Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139610	... Mr. Bacic, dear colleague, defending something as indefensible as not declaring ZERP, is simply not good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know you have to be there because you're the president of the HDZ Club, that you just have to be done because all the other HDZs left the assembly, as well as the SDPs, but I don't really see the point now that you're saying what you don't believe, that the Republic is good at giving up one of its international rights, one possibility we have, and everyone else in the Mediterranean has declared it, and we're not, and then you're saying it's the same thing. And why did the Spanish do it and the French, the Maltese, why? Because everyone's crazy, only we're smart, no, it was our condition to join the EU, as well as Ante Gotovina in The Hague, as much as the Piran Bay. And that's why we did it. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139611	...college Zekanovic. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139612	Dear Representative Zekanovic,... Things require that if we have the right to something that we're going to take advantage of. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if someone gave you the right to a sea, a lake, a river, a land, so any normal person would accept the right that was offered to him, and so is our country's international right to day the possibility of declaring an exclusive economic belt, to actually establish power over the part of the sea and the land that is beneath it. However, our country does not want to do so. Unfortunately, this example of not declaring the exclusive economic belt at sea on which we have the right is also one of the symptoms of a disease called the colonial subordination of our country to foreign entities and as long as the government is managed from outside, respectively. This policy [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] will continue to run. [[Intruder:...college Pernar]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139613	The answer of the esteemed colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139614	Comrade Pernar, I do not agree with you, you have called this colonial subordination, I will say the absence of any sovereign policy because you will agree and I assume that sovereignty is what can only guarantee them nowadays any country prosperity, that state that disowns its sovereignty, it has no possibility of prosperity with that sovereignty most apparent right on the territory. The state without territory cannot exist, as well as without the people, though, we have some multinational states, but they have territory and territory is actually sacred in international law and a main reflection of the sovereignty of each state. The government that gives up, and she gave up her territory, not a small part, 23,000 km2 and then it's about a government that's definitely leading Croatia to ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139615	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. I'm setting a break to 21 and 15. It's 9:00. Dear colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.15 HOURS]] On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Nikola Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139617	Thank you, Vice President, so it is clear that the Most Independent Lists insist on their proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt with all its contents. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as what we could hear today from the State Secretary, but also from counterpart Bačić is at the level of bureaucratic justifications, deprived of real professional content and state attitude. Due to too long delay in declaring the IGP and tolerating uncontrollable catch carried out by foreign fishermen on the Croatian side of the Adriatic, the state of the fish fund in the Adriatic is close to critical levels. The EU institutions recognise this, and Croatian authorities resort to strong restrictions on the fishing of our fishermen in Croatian territorial waters. Instead of disabling fishing for foreign fishermen in the area of the exclusive economic belt. In its opinion of 22 March 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall avoid presenting any figures, avoid mentioning worrying data contained in the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council which the European Commission referred to in the ordinary procedure in early 2017. In this document, the European Commission makes it clear that fishing for bluefish is bigger than the biggest sustainable yield in the Adriatic. I quote, on the basis of the evaluation of the existing management framework, it has been concluded that it is ineffective and insufficient to ensure sustainable fishing for the stocks concerned by 2020, as set out in point 1. of the statement of that document of the European Commission. The Croatian State reacts to this situation by adopting a regulation on the specific regulation of fishing in the part of the Apple aquarium, which was brought by the Ministry of Agriculture in May 2017 and which strongly restricts fishing in the most fertile part of Croatian territorial waters for the period from 1 September 2017 to 30 August 2020. Croatia with such behaviour where it forbids its fishermen to hunt in their territorial waters to save the fish fund so that Italian fishermen can continue to hunt in Croatia's ZERP, suffer obvious damage and continue with one already humiliating behaviour. It is therefore high time to declare an exclusive economic belt in accordance with inalienable sovereign law of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with its economic interests. These activities should certainly be brought into line with the European Commission, which has already been drawn up in 2013, meaning this report, i.e. this evaluation in which Croatia and its interests are mentioned in more than 90 places. In particular, page 139 explicitly states that the declaration of the IGP would be in Croatia's interest and that Italy would make a slightly smaller catch. It is also estimated that only with the IGP declaration would it be possible in a consistent way to establish effective management of the fish fund, which is undoubtedly the interest of Croatian fisheries, which should obviously be protected from the Italian fishing fleet, which has far greater capacities in the Adriatic than the potential for sustainable fishing in the common sea. In particular, the MOST wishes to point out the fact visible in point 1 of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because of the meaning I quote, because of the non-application of the ZERP to the EU Member States at this time, the Republic of Croatia in the area of the ZERP cannot, however, exercise control of EU Member States' vessels in navigation to which it is otherwise extremely rarely resorted, but there is the possibility of their subsequent sanctions for infringement of international standards during navigation in the ZERP. This means that neither Croatian nor Italian Authorities cannot monitor [[Intruder: Thank you.]] with which tools and how many Italian fishermen are hunting in ZERP. [[Intruder: Dear colleague of Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139618	Next debate, dear colleague of Ines Strenja, please. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139619	On behalf of the MOST Club, I request a recess so that the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider the arguments presented here, but so that we too can consult on a further follow-up of the debate, because all arguments by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are undoubtedly brought down in these discussions. No one stands behind a government representative except for a colleague here who is left alone in a assembly of HDZ colleagues and, of course, the chairman who has to be there, must be. So it is clear that all arguments are down and that there is no reason for Croatia not to declare an exclusive economic belt and extend its sovereign rights on the Adriatic Sea. Here in this opinion I have read, the views of the Government, it is obvious that neither Croatian nor Italian authorities can control the tools and how many Italian fishermen are hunting in ZERP, this situation is completely unsustainable and I call on you, if you have a shred of patriotism to consider this decision you have made and to continue to debate because it is still possible to change your position, of course, it is possible to do so during the vote on this proposal. It is quite clear that here MOST, and the rest of the opposition that took part in the debate, has made strong arguments for which you have not given any answers except some bureaucratic justifications. We even had the confession of colleagues in Bačić that HDZ is responsible for [[Intruder: I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139620	I'm setting a break to 21.35. [[It's 9:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.35 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the plenary session, the next guest of Ines Strenja has applied for the debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139622	I thank the chairman. So, I will repeat some of the things that should be said tonight because we are talking about a space of as much as 24,000 km2 and MOST is, as you know from your appearance on the national scene persistent, persistent and consistent both in the first government and in the second government, and now that we need to declare an exclusive economic belt. Thus, the state in the area of the exclusive economic belt has sovereign rights for research and exploitation, conservation and management of living and inanimate natural resources of water over the seabed and those seabed and its underground, says Art. In the 56th century, 1 Peter 1: 1 - 3. The Naval Code. So, all of this is regulated in accordance with, so, the Maritime Code, which we are looking for and we are also calling for the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. It is important to note that sovereign rights are not exactly equal in terms of living and inanimate wealth, while the coastal state, which we are, is obliged to give other countries access to living wealth under certain conditions, does not have to share with anyone. The state also has sovereign rights in its exclusive economic belt with regard to other activities, for the sake of economic research and exploitation of belts such as the production of energy using water, electricity and wind, said Art. 56. The expression of other activities for economic research and use of belts says the law is of a very general nature and can be applied to any newly created activity while the production of energy by the use of water, electricity and wind is referred to as an example only. The coastal state has the primary right to exploit living treasures in an exclusive economic belt, but it is also responsible for research, conservation and management of living treasures. It must ensure that living treasures in its exclusive economic belt are not overexploited, and there is our role. So, Art. 61st and 62nds contain the most important provisions on the rational management of living treasures. The coastal state is authorised to determine the eligible catch of living treasures in its exclusive economic belt. According to the definition of the Department of Fisheries, the UN Food and Agriculture Organisations of Catches has been carried out in a year that best enables the achievement of the objectives of fisheries management. In doing so, the coastal state is obliged to maintain living wealth at the level of the highest sustainable input, yield. So, uh... that is, it should not determine the allowable catch in quantity that would prevent the maintenance of the highest sustainable contribution. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The highest sustainable contribution depends on certain environmental and economic factors, among other things, on the economic needs of coastal fishing communities, and on the specific needs of developing countries. Thus, the coastal state itself will determine its ability to exploit living treasures of an exclusive economic belt. However, unless it itself has the ability to exploit the entire allowable catch, it must grant other countries access to the excess allowable catch. Such access shall be given to agreements or other arrangements, and they shall be in accordance with the arrangements, conditions, laws and other regulations referred to in Article. The 62nd century 4th century. When granting access to other countries for overfishing, account must also be taken of the importance of living wealth in that area for its economy and other national interests relating to non-coastal states and states in an unfavourable geographical situation. Therefore, the coastal state is competent to regulate the regulation of fishing for other countries in its exclusive economic belt. It should regulate fishing in a way that avoids overfishing, and in line with environmental social and economic objectives, and you tell me that it is not necessary to declare an exclusive economic belt. But what is interesting, as this Convention and this Law says, says "domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, and the Croatian warship can carry out research, research, photography and measurement of the sea in the Croatian economic belt, but a foreign warship, a foreign ship, a foreign fishing vessel, and a foreign scientific research ship can only be carried out with the approval of the Republic and then you tell me that there is no need to declare an exclusive economic belt. When sailing by an economic belt, water facilities are obliged to respect generally accepted international regulations and standards and Croatian regulations on protection against sea and air pollution and pollution caused by diving or activities in the sea. Legal and natural persons participating in research or exploitation of the natural resources of the economic belt of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to respect international and domestic regulations, procedures and standards on the protection and conservation of the seas of marine resources and marine environments, and during the flight of the economic belt, aircraft are obliged to respect generally accepted international regulations and Croatian regulations on the protection of sea pollution from air and air. So, the Republic of Croatia is a traditional maritime land to which the sea represents an important transport route, a source of food, and the backbone of the Croatian coast's economy and tourism. It is indisputable that under the conditions of the endangered fish fund, the growing threats to the marine environment and biodiversity are an important step in the effort to protect the Adriatic Sea and its natural resources. It is indisputable that the Republic of Croatia, according to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and under normal international law, has the right to declare this belt. Unfortunately, international policy often has the last word, and in politics the rule of law is stronger, which is the Republic of Croatia as a developing country and a new member of the EU without a strong international equal position in a worse position than the mighty Italy in the European Union, which traditionally hunts up to ten times as many fish as Croatia in that area, and therefore it is extremely clear that its position and its desire not to declare an exclusive economic belt. Unfortunately, what we do not understand is not clear to us the position of those who are currently in power and who at the moment are interested in whose interests the defenses are, if they do not defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia that should rule from these 24 thousand square kilometers as an indivisible part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139623	I thank my colleague Strenja. We have a replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Ines Strenja, you, in your own, therefore, pointed out to the individual debate the reasons for which the exclusive economic belt should be declared, and they are therefore logical, and these are economic, environmental, sovereign and that, however, it seems to me that this decision of the Government, therefore not to declare an economic belt concerning foreign policy, so, by declaring an exclusive economic belt, would show one position, an external political position, which is that we are a country which is a sovereign country, a country that has its own position, which protects its national interests, and here it is in favour of some partial interests, some people who want their position in Europe precisely because of these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139625	Thank you. Can I do it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139626	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Sagittarius.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139627	Well, all of this we could actually read, those situations when our Europarliamentaries, members of the HDZ, said very gently that perhaps Mr Tajani's inappropriate words at the moment both left and right in Slovenia, or their europarliamentaries had decidedly requested Mr Tajani's resignation, which was so fascistly said that Istria and Dalmatia were Italian. So I am interested in the position of Croatia and what is it that they are actually willing not to declare an exclusive economic belt which is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and what is it that they get? The most important law of the coastal state in the area of the economic zone is exclusively the right to fish, this right is not without exceptions. So, if there is an excess fish fund, the coastal state is obliged Thank you. [[/Intruding Millian Brkić: Thank you, fellow Strenja. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139628	Dear colleague Grmo on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139629	So here we see a colleague, Bačić, the only one left, I would congratulate the representatives of MOST and MPs, two representatives of the Living Wall, on the persistent struggle for the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea, the rest unfortunately, either did not participate at all, or went from the debate, and yet I think it's good that we had this debate, it's unfortunate that no Croatian media at all, I don't know whether HINA is following this at all, and this, given that the public service, is monitoring this debate when you're not already following the other media, means, sending some report, and then that at least the portals can publish, but the Slovenian media are therefore monitoring this debate and everything that is happening here, because they realize that the issue of rights is here, and if we fully consume our rights then what someone has been doing, I will come to question, and that I am primarily thinking about the Italian fishermen who are uncontrol, and I can't be heard, and I can't be able to say, and I can't be able to say. We want to continue to discuss this topic here so that if it is not an important topic, that is, they know that it is an important topic, the President of the Parliament, but has deliberately put it at this time, we want to show also by participating in this debate and activity on this topic that our sea is worth fighting, that our country is worth fighting for, and that we will fight for the achievement of Croatian interests. So we're not the ones who give up, we're not the ones who give up, we're the ones who keep fighting, and we're gonna show you that in this debate, but also in the days, months and years to come. So, for the first time, it is today and the President of the Parliament has commented on how many parliamentary issues, how many everything, it is, because of the emergence of these new political options in the Croatian Parliament and we, this is not our job, we feel this responsibility for our country and our citizens, and we will demonstrate it everywhere and everywhere to our colleague Bačić, and you have shown your irresponsibility tonight, when you have acknowledged the errors of the Croatian Democratic Community, the errors of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has not declared exclusively an economic belt which is why we have, these estimates are left without some EUR 270 million per year, these are huge coins, so say the European Commission's estimates, and neither now you have any arguments why Croatia would not declare an exclusive economic belt. It is unfortunate that this much energy needs to be invested in order for this topic to be put on the agenda at all. So I had to convince my colleagues, not some of them immediately signed, but, for example, with the SDP was a huge problem because their club president didn't want to agree to this, and then I went past him to get some signatures from the MPs. So we have collected 31 signatures to put the topic on the agenda, and then you have the topic that we could say by consensus of the opposition, so you put this topic at this time and such an important and important topic, and you yourself have acknowledged to your colleague Bačić how much trouble there was in the past on this topic in the Croatian Parliament, how many times it has been discussed which shows that it is an important and important topic. And the points that we had before this point and those points are more important for the president of the assembly, of course not more important, but the goal was to avoid the public focus, avoid the focus of the media, in order to raise as little dust as possible about this topic and the fact that you are working against Croatian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139630	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. In the name of the Government, Ms. Andreja Metelko Zgombić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139631	I thank you, I may begin to agree with this last intervention in the section when you say, when you say that the Republic of Croatia is worth fighting for. Yes, it is worth fighting for, but fighting requires both will and knowledge and to know how to achieve and protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia, including here when we talk about the Adriatic Sea. We haven't, we haven't really heard anything during this whole debate that would lead us to see some extra value at this point to declare an exclusive economic belt. The Republic of Croatia is now through our ZERP achieving all the rights it would have had and would have declared and fully applied the exclusive economic belt. We could hear a lot of things during this debate, someone asked why Iceland did not enter the EU, why Iceland was solely an economic belt important, that precisely because Iceland knew that once it entered the EU that it could no longer charge or exclude 3 EU Member States, it did not enter, and that is why we need to know, that one situation was before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU when it was able to declare and then try to exercise the rights it has in the Convention. As a Member State, Croatia now has other mechanisms, so it still has the full right to exploit or exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction over the ZERP, but this time in accordance with both the acquis and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. I see still in the proposal of the club of representatives is the idea that Croatia would be able to conclude fisheries contracts with 3 countries if it declared an exclusive economic belt. Inaccurate, incorrect, incorrect. You have in the proposal point 2. A lot of what is said really does not stand, the apple cauldron, on the contrary, is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian fishermen to protect the nesting site in the apple cauldron. It would be completely wrong, and I think that the minister who held the environmental buffer would have to be able to agree with me, the greatest value of protecting the apple cauldron that's worth the refrigeration, and that's what we did. And we succeeded in agreeing with the European Commission, on the Italian side, through the decisions of the Commission, the General Commission for the Mediterranean, and it works. At one point, the Italian side withdrew, but we were able to agree with the European Commission and the General Commission on the Mediterranean to re-establish such a regime and ensure that the part was protected. In which the regime which is now in force allows Croatian fishermen easy access to a specific area outside the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia in our ZERP in which de face Italian fishermen cannot come or are not economically profitable. Blue fish, if I may say blue fish is exactly the opposite of the interest of Croatian fishermen, Croatian government, Ministry of Agriculture in the most co-operation with Croatian fishermen is working to ensure a way of managing blue fish as it seems so far. We are strongly opposed to the introduction of quotas and what we stand for, we advocate that certain areas of time be excluded or the limits of fishing. And this is how the interests of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian fishermen are protected today. And in conclusion, this isn't, in conclusion, Yes, here we are, of course, staying at the point of view expressed in the opinion. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139632	...to a respected secretary of state. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139633	Dear Secretary of State, so I'd like to say that our fishermen see how the state under HDZ's baton is looking out for them. This is what our pirates, our fishermen in Piran Bay who are exposed to terror and the fines of the Slovenian police. So, this thesis of how you take care of our fishermen I've seen these people with my own eyes, I've talked to them, I don't know if you've met them, you probably don't even care. However, as far as the exclusive economic belt is concerned, it's funny that the country that can declare it does not, of which the Republic of Croatia can benefit only, and no harm can be done, but unfortunately where HDZ and their slopes begin, there is a healthy logic and wit going away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139634	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139635	Dear Secretary of State, the Republic of Croatia is worth fighting for, to fight for the Republic of Croatia should have both the will and the heart and the knowledge. How much of your heart, as far as your knowledge has shown, means, throughout all these years as you have managed the Republic of Croatia we see that the president of the HDZ Club has admitted the errors of the HDZ because it has not been declared an exclusive economic belt, and other things when we talk about national interests, so other things should not be spoken of, so that you have shown your heart, your will, your knowledge, and the time is coming, and that shows the mood of citizens when the HDZ will no longer be in a position to put together the Croatian government, remember me well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139636	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139637	I'll just lean on my colleague Grumo and say that, this country is worth fighting for, but we fight in a slightly different way than you who are a career diplomat, but remember one day, the Croatian people will ask you how you were against declaring an exclusive economic belt? Like all of these HDZs in Split-Dalmatia County because the thematic session was initiated at the request of Mr. Bulja who were against the declaration, so Split-Dalmatia County, so Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik County and Zadar, it is also Dubrovnik, it is the listeners who raise their hands, but one day the Croatian people will ask you, of course you are learning only well from your boss and the way you communicate with MPs with the high and the way you want to prove that we know nothing is something that will be paste someday, we will declare an exclusive economic belt, and the Croatian people will ask you what you have done for the Republic and whether the Croatian people will ask you what you have done for the Republic of Croatia. You fought for her or you were under the Brussels corridor. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139638	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague next replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you're absolutely right, you've made all the arguments, which is that in this entire afternoon's debate, not a single argument by your MOST colleagues stated what it would be and what the bonuses in the Republic of Croatia would be made to declare an exclusive economic belt instead of a declared ZERP. Therefore, we have not received any new information here and you have rightly expressed the position that the Republic of Croatia receives by declaring the ZERP without having heard any new information about the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. Therefore, at a time when the Republic of Croatia decided to join full EU membership, it did the only thing it could do at that time, which was suspended by ZERP in relation to EU members. There is no such thing as today, no more, no more. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] repercusion to the position of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139640	...a colleague named Bacic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139641	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives, is it possible, exclusively an economic belt, should it be passed, as we claim, who are proposing this, therefore, a proposal or not absolutely necessary, given that the current situation which is actually unclear because ZERP has been declared, but is not valid for the member states, is it sufficient, is it? And whether the declaration of the exclusive economic belt as we could hear from colleagues Bačić is a moment which is carefully thought out and which, in his opinion, is clearly not yet the moment because it must be a good moment for all countries to choose carefully, so so will the Republic of Croatia. However, I do not think that such an approach can be considered here because, unfortunately, Croatia's policy is guided by quite indecisiveness, uncertainty, with a lack of, therefore, statehood, therefore, by sovereignty as an important attribute of national policy. So, to return to the exclusive economic belt, whether or not we should, let's look at the factual state, so, fellow Bulj please silence, I've heard that your word has been taken from you, so please stick to it, so what about the spordic pollution or those stations that are happening in transport, so along the Adriatic because otherwise the transport to the Adriatic is intense, which is happening, however, we don't care, so over 200 such situations a year, we have no special interest in doing anything else. What about the other waste that comes from that ship, what about the safety of transport, can we expect the handiwork, what our role is here, whether we have the right to demand and to bring specific regulations on the transport of certain, none of us are interested in it further. We're talking about the quality of the marine environment. It's all settled. We've got monitoring. Well, it would be very interesting to see what he's really like and who he is and how he spends it, but we're not going to talk about it right now. We get to the fish fund, you say Croatia is now doing everything, it's very active in saving the fish fund, so blue fish sred, anchovies, but you should say it's a fire extinguisher. So this is not part of the system policy as it should be, as Croatia could exercise sovereignly in its part of the Adriatic in the event of the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. Waste in the sea, therefore, is not just about ship's waste, but about waste that comes mainly from land, microplastics, it's about anxiety in the additional waters, so at the bottom of the northern Adriatic, so there are a lot of questions and answers are not great. So we can't stay in the picture of the Adriatic from the postcard, nice blue, under the wind nicely scrawny, beautiful pictures. So, with the situation of the Adriatic Sea, which is our priceless wealth and which is a sustainable resource from which people have lived for centuries, and which today and in modern times can live, however, in a sustainable way. Because it's past the time when anyone wants to hunt, let's just hunt down the tools and make sure they sell it and everything's okay. Today these things have to be regulated. I'm not saying they're not regulated at all, they are, so there's a common maritime, maritime, EU fisheries policy, we stick to it. However, this does not mean that all possibilities are exhausted, however. So, when the line is drawn, the problem still has an inconclusive conclusion, we rule the Adriatic, we and all those involved here in an unsustainable way, so I don't know a drunk master's manners. And there is a constant threat, or destruction of the marine environment, and we who enjoy a more beautiful and richer part of the Adriatic should be particularly interested in stopping these tendencies. Because I have already mentioned responsibility, so we should have, feel all the responsibility for the generations to come, although we see by policy official, demographically that the projections are such that the Croatian or Croatian citizens will disappear. However, demographic policy may change and arise, so we should worry about the quality sea of the Adriatic, beautiful, desirable to live, and this current policy and current management of this concern about the marine environment is not happening to us. Be careful, if you look at the fishing fleet, the Italians have over 420 large ships over 18 meters, many of which are significantly larger than that, Croatia 63. Well it is, it is the result and tradition and these economic activities and consumption, etc., but it is actually an indicator of activities at sea. It is clear that they are much more fish and untied, and it is clear that they are far more responsible for the degradation of the fish fund and it is clear that Croatia should still be more active, and not only as an interested observer in Brussels to get involved and do their best to, say, declare the apple cauldron a particularly sensitive area, to activate all its scientific resources and thank God there are, therefore, in Dubrovnik, Split, Dubrovnik, Rovinj, there are institutes that deal with this area. So, science at a high level and we are certainly measuring to decide which species are endangered, which quotas available or sustainable ecologically acceptable exist and take an active role here. All of it, I'm not saying that even now you can't, maybe even if the situation wasn't the way I am, you wouldn't be the first to get involved in this initiative, you wouldn't support it. No, because talking about the story, there's no need, but the situation in the Adriatic is bad, and of course there are governments that are capable and can bring an exclusive economic belt and then do nothing again, the same thing again. So, you need to be active. So the fisheries policy, they have to be like that, that they're systematic and they're going towards a goal. Because I say we are the first to count to a significant extent on the Adriatic, on the beauty of the Adriatic, on tourist activity, on the diet of tourists, and in any case, it is important to us and in what interest here to be more important, more engaged. I've already mentioned transportation through the central line, so these issues and this exclusive economic belt, I'd rather end up with that, so he's not against anyone. Because I think that one such clear engagement on the protection of the Adriatic Sea and putting a map on the table with our neighbours in order to create a platform in which the conditions for both fishing and transport would be defined in the Adriatic, so to deal with the waste and many other problems that exist, I don't know if that's the issue of nitrogen intake, so other nutrients in the North Adriatic, where we would require a direct and rapid change of certain behaviour, of course through certain policies. I therefore believe it is important to bring the exclusive i.e. to declare it and lead the policy according to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139642	I thank my colleague Dobrović. We have a replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Dobrović, therefore, we here all the time have one government mantra that we have protected our Adriatic Sea, and I will compare it with the care of the father or mother for the child. If you have something most valuable that you own in the Republic of Croatia, and definitely the Adriatic Sea is one of the greatest values, then you will do everything to protect it further. So this is about additional protection, nobody here claims that ZERP has certain, therefore, protection mechanisms, but we want the Adriatic Sea to be further protected by this law because we believe that the Adriatic Sea is one of the greatest values that the Republic of Croatia has and we do not view it as just a resource that should be exploited for economic profit, but as one of the largest parts of the identity of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139644	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139645	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague of Sladolev, that's right. This would actually encourage a strong change in behaviour, therefore, in politics, in the management of this overpriced resource because it would not be good for us to understand the value of the Adriatic when we completely destroy it. It's a similar situation, we don't know how precious drinking water is until we've lost it, and it's known that people change their attitude towards the most ordinary water they think is something, some ordinary, that it can't be more ordinary, but when you don't, then you see that it's precious. It is similar, in fact, to the sea, to our Adriatic, which is an incredibly rich natural resource, however, which today is important to be managed in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139646	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Nikola Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139647	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank the representatives of MOST once again, it is unfortunate that HINA as a public agency does not follow this debate and that this picture, meaning we do not have any transfer to HRT4, we only have to thank you for the HS channel to be seen, here and what the relationship between the representatives to their work, except for the chairman who must be there, not a single HDZ representative, the rest of the opposition except for two colleagues from the Living Wall who are there, left the assembly, from the SDP was originally a fellow Klisovic who left, here is the relationship to this important topic, but we will not give up, this country is worth fighting, our sea is worth fighting for, and I will repeat our aspirations. We at the MOST Club consider the declaration of an exclusive economic belt to be an unsustainable obligation of this generation to future generations of Croatian people. We believe that declaring an exclusive economic belt is a first-class political issue that must not be seen through the prism of a political daily life, nor should it be adapted to that daily life. That is why we have proposed this decision and we believe that all rights have been acquired, so political and factual reasons or assumptions that the Republic of Croatia has declared an exclusive economic belt. What makes us particularly sad is that the president of HS has put this point at this late hour, means that we are discussing this point, that other colleagues cannot participate at this point, that the matter is worse and that colleagues are deprived of the right to debate, but I am convinced that he will speak as a promoter of this point, because we will certainly welcome midnight, and after midnight is a new day and, as a new day, my colleague Bulj will defend the sovereign right of the Republic of Croatia to declare an exclusive economic belt, as he defended Croatian territory as a Croatian defender and as he has persistently and persistently defends Croatian interests here. What I would like to point out is that we will simply no longer agree to this syntagma until we find an agreement in the European spirit because I have said in my debate that this syntagma means nothing more than a little morgen. So the exclusive economic belt according to the ruling is a bit of a morgen and that is a message for us who are also fighting for Croatian interests here, but also for Croatian citizens. So, of course, the Italians are fine with this, these are the deadlines set by the language of diplomatic bureaucracy, meaning, because Italian fishermen work uninterrupted and unsupervisedly in the Croatian ZERP as they wish. So here I want to repeat again that in my Cost-Benefit analysis, the European Commission has found that the loss of the Republic of Croatia is due to non-proclaims, meaning the economic belt from EUR 172 to EUR 279 million and that we are losing it annually. A colleague of Bacic is here in the debate, and this is the contribution of this debate, he admitted that it was the responsibility of HDZ, but for this mistake that cost Croatian citizens dearly, he did not apologize. In addition, I would like to repeat once again that the government report clearly states that the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Transport, and the Ministry of Transport, have no infrastructure available to ships that could be in control of the ZERP as well. Thus, the two underlying problems related to the ZERP and IGP control itself are both in terms of fishing and environmental aspects in the lack of capacity. There's not enough people and there's not enough resources. A boat. I would like to welcome the meaning of the people who joined us at the gallery and here is one HDZ representative, though, at the gallery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139648	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139649	I thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the State Secretary who is here all the time with us, unfortunately there are no ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, in these hours we have already said a series of arguments in favour of the decision to declare an exclusive economic belt. But let me once again sum up the key arguments in my opinion why it is necessary to declare an exclusive economic belt. I would also sum it up in five key arguments. And I'm sorry there aren't any other colleagues here who might be able to discuss it and say if any of these five arguments don't stand. The first argument is that it is the sovereign right of every state to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. And this sovereign law has exploited more than a hundred states that have access to the open sea. This sovereign right, unfortunately, has not been fully exploited by Croatia. Another key argument, this right to declare an exclusive economic belt has been used by other EU Member States that have access to the open sea regardless of the EU's common fisheries policy. A number of European Member States have made use of this right. Some have done so before they became formal members, but more important to us are those who did so after becoming members. I already said before, they did it in a pretty closed sea, in the Baltic Sea, all the Baltic states, everything. To list them, EU members Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Poland, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, all. These EU member states, all declared an exclusive economic belt, not some other variant of a protected ecological or other belt, but an exclusive economic belt and all those countries, meanwhile, agreed to distinguish where there were possible disputes. And that is one example because it is a narrow, limited sea that I mention on purpose because it has a lot of similarities with the Adriatic Sea. A number of large EU Member States have done so many years after they became members. And I already mentioned, it was done by the United Kingdom in 2013, it was done by France and the Mediterranean, it was done by Spain. Italy has declared a protected environmental belt. The IGP also declared the island states and Malta and Cyprus. Unfortunately, it is the Adriatic Sea that is the one that is not demarcated in this respect among individual countries that have open sea exits established by an exclusive economic belt. I purposely point out that it would be clear to all those who may be following this debate that we are not advocating the declaration of an exclusive economic belt as some rarity as something that other Member States have not done but are asking for it because Croatia is in fact almost the only one who has not done it. If we do not count Greece that has certain disputes with Turkey and Italy that has declared a protected environmental belt but in the western part of the Mediterranean, not in the Adriatic remains Croatia which unfortunately did not do so in view of other EU member states. The third argument, which is also very important to me personally, was not manifested to him by those who think otherwise and that is the argument of the profession. All our distinguished scientists and I mentioned academic Rudolph, I mentioned Dr. Davor Vidas Director of the Maritime and Sea Law Department at the prestigious Norwegian Institute Fridtjof Nansen. I could have mentioned the late academician Vladimir Ibler, but everyone was unanimous about Croatia's right and must declare an exclusive economic belt. So the attitude of the profession of the most respected scientists who have dealt with the right sea is absolutely unique. 4. The argument is a recommendation from the EU Commission itself. I have been quoting her statement since 11 July 2013, just as Croatia became a full member of the EU. The establishment of maritime belts, including the IGP, in the Mediterranean area, would support the EU's plans for blue growth and wider sustainability. At the time, the Commissioner for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries of the EU Commission, Maria Damanaki said I quote, there are great untapped possibilities in the Mediterranean, which could be used by setting up IGP, declaring and establishing maritime belts remains the sovereign right of all coastal states. Therefore, even the EU Commission's view is that this is the sovereign right of every Member State and that this right should be applied because there are great untapped opportunities that could be used by declaring those belts. So even the commission is on our side. 5. The argument is a study that has just served the EU commission to give that recommendation, which is a study that is very complex, complex, very high-quality, which relates to the costs and benefits resulting from the establishment of maritime zones in the Mediterranean since June 2013, one very systematic, quality, I do not think that there is a more relevant study to date which relates precisely to the establishment of IGPs and other forms of environmental or economic protection in the Mediterranean. And in that study, Benefiti stands out, used for the Republic of Croatia. And they're obvious. 30m euros are spoken from fish, but indirect benefits in environmental and tourism terms since around 140m euros per year. The study noted that Croatia is a prominent tourist country, a tourist country and that it is precisely important for it to declare the IGP and complete environmental protection in its sea. And all these arguments are not enough for the government to propose to this HS the IGP's declaration. Unfortunately, since 2008, the last decision by which the IGP does not actually apply to countries, or our protected ecological fishing band does not apply to EU Member States, for a full 10 years nothing has happened even though Croatia has been EU Member States for a number of years. Today there are no more of the kind of pressures that we were exposed to when we were in accession negotiations. Today, there really is no reasonable reason left. Which is why Croatia would You're supposed to give up and not declare an IGP? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139650	Dear colleague Podolnjak. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague of Nikola Grmo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139651	Thank you, Vice President. Here, dear colleagues, we continue this fight for our seas, continue this fight for our Croatia, against those who are more important in careers in international institutions, who are more important in syncure, who are more important in certain positions and who, because of their personal interests, do not want to come into conflict with anyone. Although this decision, a decision that is justified in favour of the Croatian national interests, means the protection of Croatian national interests, and we have, on several occasions, explained it here in a clear and reasoned manner. So, we all know where the real problem lies about the IGP announcement, and I will repeat here, that somewhere in June 2017, while ruling there in the Assembly, Prime Minister Plenkovic gave that famous lesson in history, and I will re-quote what he said then, and on the other hand, I remember a little further. I remember the '90s. Do you remember which statesman visited Zagreb on 16 January 1992? It was then Italian President Cossiga, his visit at that time, so the day after the EU or the community collectively recognised Croatia, was not random, it was important. He set the position of the Croatian state summit in that decade towards the IGP declaration we had the right to. So, here, Prime Minister Plenkovic even called for then state leadership, President Tudjman, that the decision was then made not to declare the IGP and that they faithfully, even at the time of Sanader's detudgement, held to this Tudjman's legacy or Tudjman's decision not to declare the IGP. Very, very interesting. So, what should also be repeated here is that, of course, on all these events and on the fact that this debate was put so late outside the focus of the media and the public is of course those Thai words we know that Antonio Tajani participated in the HDZ campaign, that he praised Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ, and that same man sent disastrous messages that when we talk about Istria and Dalmatia, it means that it's about Italian provinces, meaning Italian Istria and Dalmatia as Tajani said. So, as I have clearly said, all the limits of political jurisdiction have been crossed, but again we are not surprised by who we have in power, although the secretary of state claims that they are both adorned by love for their country and responsibility and reason, and we have seen all the decisions made by their colleague Bačić today and here were forced to admit it means that they have made a failure without declaring an exclusive economic belt. And the very fact that he left and that all HDZ representatives have gone shows that there are no arguments, today they are disarmed here in their intention to work against Croatian interests, they are opposed by people with a clear Croatian attitude and patriotic feeling, with arguments, with reasonable arguments and of course they had no answer. And neither does the secretary of state, who must be here, you know very well why, why the Secretary of State has been so harshly defending the government's position because there may be roschades in the foreign ministry, we know that the minister has run and it is possible that a new candidate for the foreign minister will be elected. And of course that's when you need to get the great leader as smooth as you can to choose you in that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139652	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139653	The Honorable Chairman, Nero committed suicide after Christ on June 9, 68, but before he died, he said, "What kind of artist loses my life." In a way, Nero's words remind me of the behaviour of HDZ authorities who will probably at the moment of their descent from the throne, ah what national interest fighters lose Croatia by our departure from power. However, the fact is that HDZ has not fought in the past for national interests, it does not fight today, and of course it will not fight tomorrow. Why? Because HDZ's government is a servant government, the Quislin Authority, the puppet government, the government ruled outside the field, the authority that has no authority in the people, but is exclusively existing thanks to the bitterness or bitterness of our voters and their boycott of the elections on the one hand and the mercy of our country's foreign governments on the other hand, which, with the help of all possible media, raise that party to heaven, make a cult of personality from its president, regardless of who it was and ultimately who demonises the opposition to HDZ. Today it is debated to declare an exclusive economic belt, the proposal is not good, the proposal is excellent, Croatia has the right to declare the belt. Croatia has the right to use its position, the natural resources it is given. However, this government does not see the need for it that we are already using enough of what we are given, but the fact is that if we can use some right, and we do not want to use it, there is some motive. Of course, the interest of the Croatian state in its nature cannot be a motive, because the state does not declare an exclusive economic belt simply loses. She doesn't get absolutely nothing by declaring it, and by declaring it she'll get what she gets. However, the question is, what is the reason why Croatia does not declare it? And again we go back to that cause, the cause is visible from here, I see him, see him all my colleagues, see him all the MPs, he's there, it's that flag with the blue background and the yellow stars, it's the EU. It is this community, this very artificial creation, precisely its bureaucrats and its laws, that has tied the hands of the servant government and de facto asked it not to establish an exclusive economic belt which our government has agreed to. What I want to say to our people, or to any man who has anything, to say so to national pride or to whom it means anything to a certain people, is that defending our interests within the EU is not possible, because by its nature, the EU asks us to give up what is in our interest. So the first step towards meeting Croatian interests is to get out of the EU and for this very reason the Living Wall goes to elections for the European Parliament, to fight for our country's freedom and independence, not only demagogue but also for real, means to restore the sovereignty that we lost in 2013 by entering the EU. Happy to be standing in this assembly, I am happy that my President Ivan Vilibor Sincic is next to me and that we are fighting together for what will one day enter history, as has entered history and our sovereign state of Croatia when our people at the referendum declared their independence. However, by amending the Law on Referendum and pushing Croatia into a new one, I would say to Yugoslavia called the EU. We lost our sovereignty again. Of course they'll say how we share it with others now, but in fact, we don't have it anymore. I would like to mention one important thought about the EU's action, which is next. Unlike Yugoslavia, the EU cannot offer the Croatian people absolutely anything. Croatia was more than 20% in Yugoslavia, we are less than 1% in the EU. In Yugoslavia, before the vote of a law that would be valid for all republics and autonomous provinces, it first had to be adopted by all while in the EU the laws were first passed in Brussels and then all EU member states had to accept them without discussion and debate. Such a system of relationships in which you don't really have a choice already you have to de facto accept everything that comes to your table and eat that soup, or lunch or dinner even if you didn't like it Croatian is reality. These bitter fruits of loss of sovereignty are evident in the lives of our inhabitants who are deprived of dignity, who in some ways lost, not only national pride but also feelings of national shame. Today, many are ashamed of being Croats, but unfortunately not only the puppet government, not only the Brussels officials, but also our own people who do not go to the elections or in the elections support political options that are of a servant, or semitronic character. People who have decided to serve foreign authorities do so out of their own interests and not out of our people's national interests or interests, masking their personal interests in the general interests of those people who actually usurped power in our country have committed a crime against their own people who are literally extinct today. The Croatian people are disappearing in Croatia today. I remember the song of that Drazen Jean if I said the name that he said correctly thought many of us would not be, today his words are more than ever come true. He says, they thought that there would be no us, and they could not hide their joy, and the children of generation will not know history, and then they will not be Croats on their own. Children of Croatia who do not grow up in Croatia today, but abroad, in a foreign country and in a foreign sun slowly lose their language, they stop speaking their own language and begin to accept another language as their own, thus identifying themselves with a foreign culture, or by changing their identity, and thus cease to be part of what we can call a Croatian people because language is the main feature of a nation, the loss of its own language actually loses its national identity. Who will these people and when they return I am God knows but I can safely say that as long as this authority is not going to happen. What I would like to say is that this government as well as previous authorities is leading Croatia to disappear and we don't really need foreign enemies because we are often suggested that we have enemies in the East, I will say them by name are Serbs, as Serbs are Croatian enemies. However, I am here telling you from the constituencies that we Croats ourselves are much, much bigger enemies than those from the east than Serbs who introduce themselves to us as grandmothers of horns. Unfortunately, what the Serbs were unable to do was done by a servant and puppet power. I would like to say to this occasion that the same thing that is happening in Croatia is happening in Serbia, so suddenly we see that the puppet power in both Croatia and Serbia equally destroys the two countries and equally leads both peoples into disappearance. The national story, the demagogue that has served us in the past and served us today, is actually just a confirmation of what I'm saying. It is about empty words, we are ruled by someone else and the war between us has been imposed and staged so that Croatia can be stolen. And Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139654	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. On behalf of my colleague, Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139655	Thank you, Vice President. So, we've said everything about this. So we have clearly argued that Croatia and is entitled to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea of '82. but also as a result of the call means that the European Commission does so, that Croatia has not only the right but also the obligation to declare an exclusive economic belt. Here it has been repeated on several occasions, and this argument is so strong that it is simply no one from HDZ that will defend the government's position. Everyone has escaped, even the faithful Branko Bačić who is always there to defend the government of Andrej Plenkovic and he has left his post aware that this is a battle he cannot win even though it means the focus of the public outside, so it is not on this subject, nor on HINA. And I think it's completely inappropriate that HINA didn't send a single report from this debate, because if she had sent it safely, some portal would have published, so you can take a look at it anywhere except, I think, people.hr to follow this debate all the time, no media is following, meaning, what's happening here in HS, what's going on, and that's because HINA isn't following the debate, which is absolutely inappropriate, meaning two public service HRT and HINA which are obviously if we see what's going on, under certain control of the rulings, we'll also ask these questions and I'll ask them as a member of the Media Committee just as I asked today the ethical committee about the activities of Professor. Pere Maldini, who performs as an analyst who forecasts HDZ in 6 mandates on television, and at the same time is also a member of the ethical commission where he is proposed by the HDZ, these are independent analysts, it is an independent public service, they are independent news agencies, meaning, which, in this way, refers to this important debate. So, the Republic of Croatia has the right to protect its seas, the Republic of Croatia has the right to declare an exclusive economic belt and we will also be here in HS if it is necessary until late hours, I do not know how much we will be able to do, given that we are the only ones left in the debate, but as long as we can warn that tonight the president of the HDZ Club has admitted that a mistake has been made because no exclusive economic belt has been declared, and that neither the State Secretary nor any of the representatives of the ruling majority have made arguments which would make us not declare an exclusive economic belt. Their claims that ZERP and IGP are also denied and their party’s own response during the negotiations means, that, when they said that an exclusive economic belt should be declared, and also denied by pure logic, because if ZERP and IGP are the same, then why not declare the IGP and avoid all these criticisms that are exposed here by the opposition and means, they solve all these open issues that appear in the public and the media, there is no difference, no one will object, the question is only nomenclature, so why don’t you declare an exclusive economic belt? It is clear that all your arguments are deception and lies, that you do not have the courage to stand up to much stronger EU member states, in the first place I think of Italy, that the good friends of your prime minister whom you owe to all, who also holds you in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, means that they own Croatia Istria and Dalmatia, and these are the reasons why you do not want to declare an exclusive economic belt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139656	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139657	Except that the Republic of Croatia does not use, means that the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia spreads at sea, we are also due to too long delay in declaring an exclusive economic belt and tolerating uncontrollable fishing by a fisherman on the Croatian side of the Adriatic Sea the state of the fish fund in the Adriatic is approximated to critical levels. The EU institutions recognize this, but you are deafening it, and Croatian authorities resort to a strong limit of our fishermen' fishing in Croatian territorial waters, rather than making it impossible to catch foreign fishermen in the area of an exclusive economic belt. It is necessary to protect the Croatian sea, to ensure the supervision of customs fiscal immigration or health laws and other regulations in its territory, in its territorial sea, and to punish those who violate those laws. Therefore, [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139658	...to a respected colleague, Chikotic. My colleague Gmo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139659	Dear fellow Chikotic, we made all this argument here during the debate, but they are deaf to arguments because they are guided by other interests. They are guided by other interests and, therefore, they can only be influenced by their personal interests, so they will not declare an exclusive economic belt, and as far as the arguments are concerned, that argument and that is, how much they can defend this position, this foreign assembly, too, means where there is no one from the HDZ to defend the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it is interesting that there is no candidate for the European Parliament, there is no Mr Sokola here to defend the government's position that the Republic of Croatia should not declare an exclusive economic belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139660	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague vice president of HS, Mr. Bozo Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139661	Dear Vice President HS, what to comment on? A government that doesn't protect the interests of its own people, I think it's for the annals of world history, it's the pearl of the political world scene. So, on 2 November 2017, The government said that the exclusive economic belt is unnecessary to us, then on 21 February 2018 it also referred HS's opinion and I quote "The government is proposing that the government not accept the proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt because through the regime of the protected ecological fishing band and the epicontinental belt, the Republic of Croatia is exercising its rights and protects all its vital interests in the Adriatic Sea." Interestingly, these are the facts that the Government is guiding with Andrej Plenkovic. First, in 2013, the European Commission advised its members to declare the IGP, so that better control could be established, thus avoiding the open seas situation where there is no telling who is watching and which part and only dear God, happiness or sea currents can preserve us from certain harrases that we had a year ago with a Turkish ship. That was the EU commission's advice at the time. The EU Commission also issued a professional document in 2014 saying that Croatia loses more than 130 million kuna annually, as much as it can at the time when the IGP is declared. The cost of introducing is 20 million kuna and can be covered by funds. The EU's joint research centre announced in 2017 that the Mediterranean fish fund is being dramatically reduced. The pollution, climate change and overfishing threaten its biodiversity. The government doesn't hear that either. Also, according to the current ZERP, which you say is enough for us, we do not have the right to even check whether any ship that has an EU flag uses illicit fish fishing tools. The Adriatic Sea is natural, yes, yes, the Adriatic Sea is a natural wealth and a national resource that we must safeguard for our sake and for other generations. The IGP is a permanent interest in Croatia and we protect our sovereign rights by declaring the IGP. And I will now remind you of a change in HDZ rhetoric over the last 20 years. So, in 2003, here are the ones that are not here, HDZ has neither, in 2003 opposed ZERP by calling this ZERP a strange beak, voting against this ZERP, interesting, strange, as a strange beak named Vladimir Seks, political mentor of today's Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Well, shortly after that same year 2003, when HDZ came to power, not only did it not change the ZERP, he accepted and left it without a beak because he subsequently changed a provision by which the ZERP was not valid for EU members. That's how he voted the supplement in 2004. Now, when the elections came in 2007, then HDZ talks, now HS where HDZ's majority is going to decide that still EU members must respect ZERP from, interestingly, 1.1.2008 and as soon as the elections have passed, the same HDZ changes the decision and HS where again the HDZ makes up the majority says that, behold, EU members do not still have to respect ZERP. In 2015, during the negotiations, IGP and HDZ and SDP also accept 2016. E, 2017, they don't need IGP already. And that's the policy of a HDZ that certain individuals, which I must say, ultimately did not go far from that dictatorial regime that we had for the last 50 years before the establishment of independence, led and bad for Croatia as they turned that same party. If the IGP is as unnecessary as the Government says, why is it declared by 135 countries of the world? If the IGP is unnecessary as the Government says, then why on behalf of the EU Commission, Commissioner for Maritime and Fisheries on 25 October 2013, states that Croatia can declare the IGP? She could tell us, when exactly what the government is saying, that we already have it, just under a different name. Why is he saying we should declare an IGP? If the IPG is needed as the Government says, then why in 2012, did the UK declare the IGP in 2013. It's all Mr. Plenkovic's silence. It is interesting that in June 2017, in the Parliament, Mr Plenkovic said in an indirect manner that he had never said that the IGP, while he was at the head of the government, would not declare it because we allegedly owe it to the Italians, the Italians still declared it, respected it in 1992. That's what he said, yes, yes, that's exactly where Mr. Plenkovic is. Very bad, but what I have to ask unfortunately, I have no one here to ask because none of the HDZ members are presently in the assembly. Is it possible that the reason for his decision was not Cossiga in 1992, but perhaps someone's career ambition? Did HDZ allow themselves once again to be the hostages of one man's will and his career ambition? Is it possible that Tajani, who speaks of Dalmatia as Italian, is Istria more important than one Croatian fisherman? Obviously it is. Unfortunately, it is. And that is why I say that this kind of Croatian policy will one day stand in anals as the pearl of the world's political scene. I wonder if the parliamentary representatives who are here will, by all accounts, vote against the IGP here to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or to take care of their chairs? Because if they raise their voice for this government proposal that says the IGP is unnecessary, the fishermen will be harder. If they raise the voice that the IGP unnecessary Croatia will lose 130 million kuna a year, and we could invest it in better healthcare, in youth education, in small and micro entrepreneurship, and all of these are reasons why people should stay in Croatia. These same parliamentary deputies were chosen to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not to raise their hand to be here a party machine that would raise their hands just to enjoy the salary for four years and put a finger in her ear. Their children will one day ask them, if they don't already have a face for the citizens who gave them the trust that circled them in the elections, I want to know what they're going to say to their children. I don't think it's necessary to explain again by not knowing which way is the difference between the ZERP and the exclusive economic belt, why it's not the same, why we need an exclusive economic belt, 135 states is the reason, if nothing else that Croatian citizens know is the same and that we have the right to vote on it. We need the protection of the Croatian Adriatic in the first place and not someone else and no one else, we need to protect the Adriatic, it is our right and our obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139662	Thank you, dear colleague Petrov. Replica esteemed colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139663	By declaring an exclusive economic belt, we objectively reduce the profitability of our fishermen and thus reduce the growth potential of our fishing fleet, which is actually less than could be achieved through fair use of resources. And we're temporarily saving the Italian fishing fleet that's been pre-named and we're setting up this game of losers and subjects. 135 countries in the world have declared an exclusive economic belt, why doesn't Croatia do so too, why in 2004 has it actually reduced the volume that no longer applied to EU countries? Which is and what is the relationship between Croatia and Italy when we cannot actually protect our national interests in a modern and systematic manner, such as protecting our Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139664	Thank you, dear fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139665	Representative Cikotic is not only that, because the Croatian Parliament has made a decision not to respect the arbitration court and it has unanimously brought this here it is another major argument for us to go free to declare the exclusive economic belt, but of course it is not a good enough argument for Andrej Plenkovic. And then it's quite clear that I don't regret them by the HDZ, said Minister for the Beauty of Reality Branko Bacic at the moment you enter such a party, you lose some sovereignty. They said some in some groups might smell, but it's warm. That's why I don't want them because they agreed to it, but I regret Croatian citizens, you betrayed them, and I'm not a populist, and I'm not telling you populistly you'll remember this and you'll remember You state secretaries this night in 5 to 10 years. [[Agreement: I thank my colleague Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139666	I thank my colleague Petrov. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139667	Dear Chairman, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall Club to point out one paradoxical situation, which is that much bigger countries like Russia, India, Great Britain, Denmark, Argentina, Brazil, Philippines, Japan, South Africa, Australia and Denmark, which includes Greenland, they are looking for an exclusive economic belt and they are entitled to it, and we who are small country, realistically, Croatia is a small country and we have this little sea that we have that we don't want to declare and it turns out that we Croats are actually dumber than everyone else. But in fact, it is not that the Croats are stupid, because the Croats want Croatia to declare an exclusive economic belt. The Croats want us to be on our own, the Croats want us to rule sovereignly in our part of the Adriatic, but the puppet government doesn't want it. The question is, is the puppet power stupid or corrupt? That's the central question. I personally think they're painted too smart to be stupid, and on the other hand, they're too unfair not to be corrupt. In other words, I think that's actually why the puppet government doesn't want to establish our economic belt on the Adriatic is that it's actually been bribed in some way by foreign entities. And for that reason, we're looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139668	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 23 and 15. It's 11:00 P.M. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 23.15 HOURS]] Nikola Grumo on behalf of the promoter. Nikola Grumo's individual. Tomislav Panenić, not present. Marko Sladolev, not present. Sonja Chikotić, not present. Ante Pranic. ... He's not present. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ivan Willibor Sincic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Grmoya, we're on our way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've been gone for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Pernar. ... Here you go, Mr. Pernar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139670	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Today we again witness the sad moment when, in a bizarre way, it has been taken right away from the legislators of the Law on the exclusive economic belt to speak. Namely, the break was 10 minutes and the promoter was late, perhaps a minute, and it was always the custom that if the applicant was late for a short time to simply wait, it was always because the debate couldn't go without the promoter. So if the draft law were to be the Government of the Republic of Croatia and if the Proposer had to speak then in that case and the Proposer did not have to take a break until the Proposer arrived.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139671	Mr. Pernar, please talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139672	But today we have made a precedent that has actually ended in a way that the debate on the exclusive economic belt is trying to contain itself. And I, Mr. Brkic, must say that I disagree with such a way of holding a session and that I call on the proposing representative, to allow Mr. Grumoja to speak for reasons that he is no ordinary speaker, but he is the legislator and speaks on behalf of the promoter. But it's not the same as all of us who answer for a word. And I appeal to you, Mr. Brkic, to allow Mr. Grumoja to speak because this is the way to conduct a session where, in fact, in one bizarre way, the right to speak is taken away, so I find it deeply wrong. And this time I urge you to ask my colleagues from the MOST to apply for the final word on behalf of the motionary, because unless they apply for the closing word on behalf of the motionary, the chairman will also take away that possibility from them. I repeat once again, the suma summarum Live wall is 100% for an exclusive economic belt, declared by a much larger country than we do, we have the right to declare it too. The reason HDZ is against it is because the interests of our country and our people living in it are unfortunately irrelevant. For this reason, I call on the Croatian people to resist, to disobey civil disobedience and to support in the EU elections the political options that fight the service policy, against the rule of our country outside, against the service of Western imperialism, against the service of Brussels and Washington and against the service of those who systematically destroy our people. Croatia cannot be one of the bureaucrats in Brussels that no one has chosen. Croatia cannot and must not be the hostage of the puppet authorities and the Croatian people must cease to be the hostage of their own nonsense and finally go to elections and decide on their fate in their own interest, stop believing the false promises of the puppet authorities about the god's peace and prosperity with them at the position of power. Because if they haven't seen that HDZ won't lead them to peace, and prosperity will never. Croatian peoples wake up, Croatian peoples open their eyes, Croatian peoples stop believing in lies, stop believing, stop believing in Croatian peoples, stop believing in those who lie. Stop it, people of Croatia, stop believing in lies and finally turn to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139673	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the MOST of Independent Lists insisting on its proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt with all its contents. We therefore believe that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the level of bureaucratic justifications is deprived of legal expertise and state attitude. However, due to too long a year's delay, this law stands in the drawer, with the IGP's declaration and the tolerance of uncontrollable fishing trips carried out by foreign fishermen on the Croatian side of the Adriatic, the state of the fish fund in the Adriatic is approximately critical. The EU institutions recognise this, and Croatian authorities resort to strong restrictions on the fishing of our fishermen in Croatian territorial waters rather than making it impossible to catch foreign fishermen in the IGP area. So, in MOST, we believe, therefore, that the Croatian Adriatic should be further protected, so we believe that Croatia's Adriatic is, therefore, the highest value that Croatia has, therefore, the desire, so we consider part of Croatian identity and we do not, therefore, that Croatia's Adriatic is, therefore, an area of commercial, therefore, extraction itself, but we believe that it is part of the identity and that this government, which refuses to send one message to the European public and the world, therefore, that we do not have important national resources, that they are not national interests, but are important positions of the future in Brussels and, in addition to the economic and environmental aspects, we believe that this decision, which the government has already made several times been made public and foreign policy decisions, i.e. Sub-chapter... The bureaucratic message we send to our neighbours, therefore, and I would not want it to be considered that this debate is directed against one nation, so, the Italian concrete people, the Italians are very firm and determined to fight for their interests, that is their right, but we do not use our right, and there is the difference between the Italian government and the Croatian government, which they respect their national interests, they fight for their seas, and every time we step forward to any foreign policy obstacle. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian government should not fear any pucks from Brussels and its neighbours. The Croatian government should fight for its people, for its interests and for one diplomat who cares only about his career, and not about national interests, we did not expect anything else. What we want to say to this, therefore, by law, is that MOST of Independent Lists advocates sustainable development, to preserve national interests, to preserve the fish fund in the Croatian Adriatic, to preserve the maritime, therefore, ground in the Croatian Adriatic, and we consider this law to be a very important law in future setting before the EU, therefore, by setting up positions before the EU and we believe that by accepting our legal proposal, the Croatian Government would send a strong message to both our neighbours and our neighbours, here I will also tell my friends in the EU, which is that we are fighting for our national interests, that we have our own position and that we will not deviate from that attitude. However, this government has no hearing about it, what we want to tell the Croatian public that we will not give up on the IGP after this debate, but that we will continue to insist on this legislative proposal, so there are others, therefore, mechanisms to present it to the Croatian public and this country we believe that fighting is worth fighting for and that our sea is worth fighting for and we will not give up on it. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139675	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. On behalf of the promoter, the final word of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139676	So, Honorable Vice President, I'm going to address the Constitution Committee because before the session was scheduled, you started the debate, so I've been looking at the video that seconds before, which you took away the opportunity for MOST representatives to participate in these debates, I've still been going in, and I've been looking for a word as a promoter, you've still been reading and taking everyone who's been reported here, we've all been here at HS, I think that people who are here unlike HDZ representatives all this time deserve to get a chance for their individual debates, but that's just saying that you're here doing the tasks that Andrej Plenkovic gave you, and that's what makes me sad, but unfortunately, that's how it is. So, I'm going to repeat our thesis, it's quite clear that the Republic of Croatia has the right, so to declare the IGP, it was also a response to a patriotic coalition whose headquarters party is HDZ at the time of the negotiations, so, about MOST's conditions for forming a government. In that answer, you claim that it is not only necessary, but that it is necessary to do so, that the Republic of Croatia must do so, and now we see that you have changed that attitude. Also, the government of Andrej Plenkovic made a decision, so, on the launch of a consultation on the IGP announcement, we could not at the first session of the government hear such arguments that it is unnecessary. Why did the Prime Minister even make the State Secretary's decision to launch a consultation on something that is unnecessary, and you want to convince us that you are serious and responsible, serious and responsible people do not launch consultations on something that is unnecessary, which we already have if what you claim to mean by such a regime Croatia is also exercising its full sovereign rights. We all know that's not true. If that were the case, you would do it and you would declare an exclusive economic belt, but you cannot, Mr Tajani is more important to you than Croatian fishermen, you are more important to Mr Tajani than any Croatian citizen, because through Mr Tajani you can realise your interests, interests regarding your careers. And here I think it's clear to all Croatian citizens what you are and by putting this point into this, by putting this point at this late hour you wanted to do and what you did with this trick at the end where you took down 5 debates also made for us. So, when you left before the scheduled time, I ran, got into the assembly here, you removed all my colleagues just to talk as little about how you do, and during the campaign for European elections in which you tell Croatian citizens that you will fight for Croatian national interests, how you work against Croatian national interests. So this study by the European Commission has shown how much money we are losing, how much money we lose annually because of the failure to declare an exclusive economic belt, means EUR 269 million, means the assessment that Croatia is losing this year and it's clear, it's clear here about what's happening here. If we exclude that financial component, we have this ecological component, and we also have a component of a responsible and sovereign state that needs to fully control its territory and its sea, and it is clear that this way of behavior is completely, completely incomprehensible. How come they don't have replicas on behalf of the proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139677	I beg you, my colleague, you have your word, but leave the rest to me to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139678	They have, they have a right to replication, so there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure here, and we're fiercely protesting against it. So, our sea is worth fighting for, so it means that we should have the protection of the Adriatic Sea in the first place, we want to manage the entire territory sovereignly, and not, of course, with our sea, and not that someone else or no one is doing it because it is our duty and obligation to which the EU has called us, but to which it has bound us also means the UN Convention. Earth and sea are worth fighting, future generations are worth fighting and I ask the question of whether to fight means for this, for our sea, for our submarine, for archaeological sites in the sea, for the fish fund, for the energy potential of the wind and the ability to raise and use artificial islands, even for everything else. So we want to completely consume all our rights. And that's what HDZ doesn't want to agree to because it's run by some kind of tiny, tiny interest. And simply, that is what is incomprehensible to us, it is incomprehensible to us that the man who sends messages that, that Istria and Dalmatia are Italian, that he is your friend, that he participates in your campaigns, that you do not strongly condemn him after that statement, or your Europarliamentaries, and that shows how many spines you have, how much you have a firm state attitude in defending Croatian national interests. I would also like to point out once again, what we have said here during the debate. So, it is not only visible in this case, it is also visible in other cases since the negotiations on Serbia's EU accession where the Foreign Ministry violates the government's decision and does not call upon a committee to monitor the implementation of the criteria of Chapters 23 and 24, our campers, our people, our victims themselves, are pressing charges and that is what we must be concerned about. It is also visible to, on the subject of the land situation in Slavonia, where the commissioners are forced to sign the transfer of concessions from the Agrokor concert to the new owners, which is not what Minister Tolusic wants to do, these are all the problems that definitely show that this government is not working in the interest of Croatian citizens. It is also clear that simply the State Secretary has not given any arguments here that would support this view of the Government that none of the HDZ deputies has remained in the assembly here to defend this position of the Government, because it is indecipherable, they have no answers to our arguments, no rational answers, so it is clear that the MOST considers the declaration of an exclusive economic belt to be an irrevocable commitment to all of us, all of us as Parliament's representatives of this government towards future generations. We believe that this question should not be seen through the prism of anything currently happening in Croatian society. We could also say that this issue of the exclusive economic belt has existed since the draft Croatian state. My colleague Bacic himself spoke of this important issue even on 10 occasions being discussed here in HS, but both governments and MPs, or representatives of these majority parties, were taking the syntagma I was talking about until I reached agreement in the European spirit. And that syntagma means that the IGP will never be declared. What should also be noted that the EU Commission's action on this issue has always been in the direction that countries have the right to vote IGP and this study I have been talking about has shown that benefits and benefits from the declaration can range from 172m to 279m euros per year. It should be noted that those estimates are expressed in net amount, therefore, after including the management and control costs of the IGP. Also, we at MOST are aware of these obligations if we were to declare ourselves an IGP, but that's something that we as a responsible state have to implement and we simply have to master that whole part of our sea. I would also like to say here that to that argument that, I think, the strongest in this debate, we did not get an answer, and that is, if it is the same that IGP and ZERP are the same, what is the problem with Croatia declaring IGP? If Croatia does not receive anything by IGP, if we cannot limit anyone in anything, if we have declared all the important content of the IGP, if we have consumed all the important sovereign rights, if the Adriatic Sea has already become an EU sea, what is the problem, colleagues from the HDZ? If all of this is as the government claims, we declare the IGP this Friday, here's colleague Bulj's amendment that and it was a request even for some of the IGPs to come into effect then we declare it immediately on Friday, we accept the amendment of colleagues to Bulja, that it enters into force immediately and the matter is resolved, so if that's just a question of titles as you all the time claim. But we all know where the real problem lies, you don't want to object to your Italian friends, you don't want to object to Mr. Tajania, anyway, I read to you here his answer to my question in which he made it clear that Croatia owes the Italian state gratitude for declaring Croatia's independence and that in that sense we should not consume all our sovereign rights. When we talk about the government's decisions, the government's representatives made a decision at the first session to launch consultations, we have no information about these consultations. Slovenians argue there have been no meetings, and as far as Italians are concerned, there was some meeting at the level of Croatian and Italian foreign ministers. Our minister mentioned the question, but she didn't point too much, because Italian support is also needed for the function for which she is then competing, and we know whose support she has. He has the support of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and he also has the support of the Serbian government because she already worked there for the Serbian government, i.e. the government of the small Sloba Ivica Dacic, when she helped in the process of Serbia's EU accession. So, the two governments are already fiercely behind Minister Pejcinovic-Buric, so why would she mess with the Italians around the IGP when she can have their support for that important function? So it's clear here that there are private particular interests, not general, public, national interests for which we here, as MOST's advocates, are constantly struggling. Once again, I would like to thank all the representatives of the MOST Club for this time, as well as the debate on the financing of political parties and promotions, when you put Vice President Brkic's hand in the pocket of Croatian citizens and provided yourself with additional money for the election promotion of the HDZ list for the EU parliament. At the time we fought hard against you, you didn't expect it, 39 hours we discussed here, only how you can beat us, it's funny, but today you didn't beat us, as much as you took away the word from some MPs, colleagues to Bulju, and now those who have come forward for individual debate, the message has been sent to Croatian citizens, they see well who works for Croatian interests and who works against Croatian interests. No one here, here's a colleague of Pernar's left over from the rest of the opposition and the representatives of the Most who are here all the time, no one's here. No one from the HDZ defends the government's position and they are ashamed of the government's position, there is not a single HDZ candidate for the EU parliament because they are selling us a story from posters, they are going to sell us a story from TV spots that they have provided with these 4.5 million kunas, they are going to sell us a story about how they are fighting for Croatian national interests, while at the same time defending the government's position, such as the state secretary's position, that Croatia should not protect its rights, that Croatia should not declare the IGP. That's the attitude of the HDZ candidate. This is the position of HDZ representatives, which is the view of this government, to give in to Italy, to give in to Serbia, to give in to anyone, and not to protect Croatian national interests. Our position on this issue is firm, our position is consistent, our attitude changes depending on the change in the political situation, depending on the events on the Croatian political scene. It was the same in 2015, it was 2016, it was 2017, it was 2018, it is the same now and it will be the same in the future if you do not accept this proposal and do not declare an exclusive economic belt. This is a picture of the Croatian Parliament, this is what I would ask and that this is transmitted, I know that it is being transferred to You tube channel of the Croatian Parliament, and the media will be able to take this picture to see how many MPs here are at work, so because their president put this point, when he has already put that point, then they are expected to be at work, they are not at work, how much pay they are today because they rarely asked the President of the Government, how many today they were working for Croatian citizens and where they are now. Do you know where they are now? Maybe somewhere in the field where they sell the story again about how they are fighting for Croatian national interests. Dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is time for everyone in this country to open their eyes, to realize that those who tell you about patriotism that it is really those who work against the interests of Croatia, that those who hold hands on the heart are actually those who always put their hands in your pocket, that those who talk about patriotism and who represent themselves as great patriots and who are called the patriotic coalition are actually those who work for Serbia's interests and for Italy's interests. It's time for you to realize that these are the con men who cheat on you from the campaign campaign, which means they never did what they promised in the election campaigns. In election campaigns, they promise to declare an exclusive economic belt, but when they come to the opportunity they do not, in election campaigns they promise to open 200,000 jobs to fill and open them but in Ireland and Germany, not in Croatia. So in election campaigns, they promise to fight corruption, and they are the biggest generator of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, their former prime ministers end up in prison, they are bound by the affairs that we witness every day, they are using both the intelligence and police apparatus for intra-party accounts to track political opponents, they are the ones who occupied institutions that are only doing business at the moment of the Prime Minister and what we are dealing with. We are now dealing with the vice president of the assembly whether he intercepted his wife's e-mail or not, I am not interested, I am interested in whether the e-mails of Croatian citizens and who controls it, whether the e-mails of Croatian citizens are intercepted and who protects them, who protects Croatian citizens, who protects Croatia's interests? Do we have occupied institutions and are the words of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament that institutions are working on someone's orders whether they are correct, if they are correct we must all be concerned. And that is what I fear and fear. It's not for me because I'm not afraid of anything, I showed them this and I'll show them in the future, but I'm afraid for the Croatian citizens who have given me confidence and whose interests I need to protect. And you know what they're asking of us, they're asking us to trust them with the same ones who admitted to us here during the debate that they made a failure when they didn't declare an exclusive economic belt. Branko Bacic, president of the HDZ Club, admitted here that he did not, that a failure was made when an exclusive economic belt was not declared, and for this statement he did not even apologize to Croatian citizens. And they call for seriousness, they call for responsibility, those who have brought us into such a situation, who have led us to a subordinate position both towards Slovenia and Serbia and Hungary around MOL and all that they have done, such as those who are responsible, who have knowledge, who have expertise and who are also patriots. This will no longer work for you, no one in Croatia can do it, you can't believe it and you will see it in these European elections that are in your favor, because unfortunately in such elections we have little turnout, and you will see what will happen to you when parliamentary elections come. You will never again be in a position to put together the government of the Republic of Croatia, it will remain here and it will be recorded what I have told you and that is what will happen to you. Because you never look at the interests of Croatia, you never look at the interests of the Croatian man, you never look at the interests of Croatian farmers, you never look at the interests of Croatian fishermen, so you only look at your private interests. So and definitely what must be sent to Croatian citizens, they stole your sovereign rights, they handed over your seas, they stole your referendum, they steal your meanings every day your future, your children's future, they drive your children out of the country, there's never been any major emigration. In the 6 years of the government of a man convicted of corruption, former Prime Minister Sanader has moved fewer people than in a year by the government of Master Andrej Plenkovic. So fewer people moved out in six years, more in a year of Plenkovic's government. And that's the result of your policy, that's the result of your expertise, that's the result of your responsibility. You drive other people's children out of the country while your children eat with a golden spoon, while your children eat with a golden spoon, other children leave the country. And that is the result of your policy, such a policy will be strongly opposed by the Most Independent Lists here in the Croatian Parliament and in every corner of this country, but be assured in the European Parliament as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139679	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. I just need to correct you, some words that you're saying that aren't right. So feel free to submit everything you have on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, objections, at 23:00 and 15 minutes and 3 seconds on the basis of article 231, I started calling the representatives in line as they applied, so first you and then a respected colleague of Panenic, then a respected colleague of Sladoljev, a respected colleague of Cikotic and a respected colleague of Pranic. No one was present here. Afterwards, I called for a representative of the Living Wall and Mr. Pernar answered, so you're wrong. As regards replicas, the basis of Article 233 of the spokesman who applied for a speech was not present in the Chamber, when he was called on to lose the right to talk about that point, on the subject of the agenda for which he applied. So, it just wasn't a business opportunity. So, here's for the truth and for the fact that I brought it up to you, of course you're doing business, you can handle everything you can. I would like to conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State Metelko Zgombic, Mrs Andreja Metelko Zgombic and her associate for their reasons and opinions. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a law implementing the delegated Regulation of the EU Commission of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules for security codes on packaging of medicinal products for human use, first reading, P.Z. No. 596. Thank you and good night. The session was interrupted at 23.53 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139680	Now let's go to... Amendment to the proposal for a decision amending the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, the amendment of MP Mira Bulja. Here you go, colleague Bulj, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139681	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's finally an exclusive economic belt and I hope we finally protect our territorial waters. In this amendment that I have made on this proposal, it is changing, it has been a year that it has been meant to start applying legal regimes of the exclusive economic belt and this amendment to take place immediately after making a decision, as soon as our colleagues and colleagues have voted on an exclusive economic belt and finally protect our territorial waters, our Adriatic, to immediately enter into force the exclusive economic belt because we have waited too much. It is simply our sovereign right, and it is our obligation to declare an exclusive economic belt because at this point we have a ZERP, it is essentially just parts of the full application of the exclusive economic belt, and I expect most of you, from the majority that you will support this proposal, perhaps if you were content with it for a year, I have put this amendment on the proposal as one of the motions to step forward immediately tonight when you vote exclusively on the economic band based on what is here and most of us have signed when the negotiations were mainly the Patriot coalition that they will vote for this part because they have said that this is one of the key things, mainly HDZ, which is why we believe that we are also those recommendations that we have, that one year of applying an exclusive economic belt, we have made this amendment right after voting to start applying an exclusive economic belt, which is why I have proposed this amendment. ... Yes, of course as a proposer, of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139682	Okay. The Proposer accepts, therefore, we will now, on behalf of the Government, be shown the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Andreja Metelko Zgombic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139683	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. In fact, it does not accept the basic proposal of the Most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139684	Thank you. We have a second amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. ... Yes, Government, you can manifest yourself please, so we have identical numbers 2 to 13 so the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and all the individual members, so please be aware of that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139685	Yeah, here's my thanks again. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall not accept these identical amendments referred to in points 2 to 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139686	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139687	On behalf of the promoters, we have proposed what is in the proposal supplement essentially, what is a patriotic coalition and asked for, this means the sovereign law of the Republic of Croatia as a country that has an open sea exit to declare an exclusive economic belt for the preservation and optimal exploitation of living and other treasures in the Adriatic Sea, which is closed or semi-closed sea according to the UN Convention, means this is added to the point, the new text is added beyond point 3. And that's why I'm disappointed by your colleague, which is why she's so resistant to the exclusive economic belt. But we know the government's attitude. You won't... Andrej Plenkovic for the sake of Tajani, fascist and his friendship to declare an exclusive economic belt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you colleagues, counterpart Klaric, colleague Loncar, you from these constituencies, are likely to vote in favour of an exclusive economic belt. So you won't let the Tajani control your thoughts through Plenkovic, Juncker, Tusk. Well, Tajani, a colleague of Šipic, also told Loncar that Dalmatia is Italian. Are you really not in favor of declaring an exclusive economic belt? I see my colleague Lonachr laughing and this isn't funny, this is a patriotic coalition, the patriotic coalition proposed it was like some kind of termination of any cooperation. It did the same thing and similar even a little bit of SDP. And I do not see any reason why Croatia should not declare what it has under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, declare an exclusive economic belt, protect its meanings of territorial waters and therefore ask your colleagues to support this amendment and of course we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139688	Thank you. Representative Bozo Petrov, he gave the same amendment, he's not here, so we'll vote on it. 4th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrovic, he is not here, therefore we must vote on him. The 5th amendment is representative of Hrvoje Runtic, he is not here we must vote on. The 6th is the amendment of MP Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139689	Thank you very much. This amendment just shows that promises aren't worth much. That the same party can promise something in the formation of one government, then also in the other government to change its position. But this isn't about something life-changing, so maybe it's not the things that yesterday was food one, today another, but everything is nutritious, here we're talking about territorial integrity, the rights that come from our sovereignty as a state. And if one option, one party today, or yesterday or colleagues at any time says that this is the right we want to consume and we will implement it and then oppose the implementation of such a form of our sovereignty, then we are actually asking ourselves in ours and we are questioning our political system. Whether the parties who act this way and we see that it is not only the HDZ that did it we also have the HNS who turned not only their specific decisions, but also their principles, and that is our authority today, which says that Croatia has no sovereign right to have an open sea exit on which to declare an exclusive economic belt, that Croatia has no right to preserve and make optimal use of living and other resources in the Adriatic Sea can seek its right. It also says that it does not matter the convention that gives us the right to do so, and that is exactly what this amendment is really just a message that we send about the parties that want to rule Croatia and be the main parties to our sovereignty. We're looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139690	Amendment No. 7th Representative Sonja Čikotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139691	Can we get an indication of the amendment? Can I show you the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139692	But you've been showing yourself about it about everyone, I've said it out loud from 2nd to 13th, which are all identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139693	And so when it comes to an exclusive economic belt, then they're all identical to you, when some other law... individually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139694	And they're identical, aren't they identical?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139695	So maybe they... I hope tonight you colleagues and colleagues are here on behalf of the promoter to support this and that we will finally protect ourselves from the exclusive economic belt that you have not had the strength or the courage to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139696	It's a good thing you let your colleague Sonja Chikotić from your club speak. Here you go, colleague Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139697	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected State Secretary 135 countries of the world declared an exclusive economic belt. What we asked for in this amendment is to add in the proposal for a decision in point 3 a new text that reads: the sovereign law of the Republic of Croatia as an open sea country is to declare an exclusive economic belt for the preservation and optimal exploitation of living and other resources in the Adriatic Sea, which is closed or semi-closed by the UN Convention. The explanation that I have stated regarding this amended amendment suggests that we propose that the same change be made. It means, i.e. to supplement this point 3 of the decision, which, according to its content, is a proposal from the Hostel coalition's response to the reform proposals of the Most Independent Lists, and during the negotiations for, with the MOST on the formation of a government, and related to the declaration of an exclusive economic belt on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia in 2016, which states that the position of the Patriot coalition is clear and thus also the main parties and the HDZ coalition declares the exclusive economic belt of interest for the Republic of Croatia, that this is our duty and obligation. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139698	The 8th Amendment is a representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139699	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the sovereign law of the Republic of Croatia, is to declare an exclusive economic belt. And after more than 28, after nearly 3 decades of Croatia's independent state, it is time for you to raise your voice against all governments and this government that serves as a servant for Tajani, a friend of Plenkovic or I don't know who. At this moment this afternoon, you have a historic opportunity for colleagues and colleagues to vote on an exclusive economic belt. It is the sovereign right of the Croatian people and of the Croatian state. Same as.../incomprehensible... and territorial waters. I expect you all to come home free, not tied up tonight. It has long been waiting for us to get to the free RH, not for our profits to be drawn by other fishing fleets, that we did not protect Croatian fishermen, that we did not protect our territorial waters. This is embarrassing that in the Croatian state after 30 years of the start of the Homeland War, a little less, when we gained the freedom to strengthen those who are not to declare an exclusive economic belt, and indeed the patriotic coalition headed by the HDZ called for the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. Your boss Ivo Sanader, who received Merkel before the elections, and now Andrej Plenkovic is receiving it, so don't just court Tajani, Merkel, Junker, Tusk, so you work once in the interest of a Croatian man who's had a hard time getting his freedom. Well, recently there's been a Homeland War, and I don't think any of you who's thinking sovereignly, who's thinking with your head, is going to back tonight. exclusive economic belt. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139700	The next amendment is number 9, MP Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139701	Thank you, Vice-President, so I ask my fellow MPs who hold to this state, who hold to Croatian sovereign rights to support my amendment, as well as the MOST proposal of the Law on the Announcing of the Exclusive Economic Belt, we have the right to do so under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, which is what the European Commission is calling for, and the only reason why the ruling does not want to declare an exclusive economic belt, which we could learn from Prime Minister Plenkovic's response to my question, is that they do not want any conflict with Italian neighbours. Remember that the prime minister reminded me of the merits of Italian President Cossiga for Croatia and that is their only reason, they do not want a conflict with Tajani who participated in their campaign, and this is about Croatia losing huge funds in the calculation of the European Commission because of the failure to declare an economic belt. We could have made several Peljeka bridges if we had declared an exclusive economic belt, such damage could only be done to Croatia by those who do not hold Croatia, and in serious countries such procedures would be driven by possible disputes related to high treason policy. In no other way can such a policy be characterized. It is also visible in relations with Serbia where the Commission for Monitoring the criteria set out in Chapters 23 and 24, but it is also visible in relation to the Republic of Italy because of the failure to declare an exclusive economic belt. I demand a vote on this amendment and ask for support from those who like to call themselves patriots.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139702	Thank you. The 10th amendment is identical to the representatives of Ines Strenja, gone, we'll have to vote on it. The 11th amendment is identical to the representative of Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139703	Thank you. Therefore, I will read one of our provisions which will not be accepted here, so let the citizens estimate how harmful it is for Croatia, which is the sovereign right of the Republic of Croatia as a country that has an open sea exit to declare an exclusive economic belt for the preservation and optimal exploitation of living and other treasures on the Adriatic Sea, which is closed or semi-closed by the UN Convention. So I have no illusion that it will be accepted by the ruling majority's representatives, as not many other laws in the protection of national interests have been accepted. A message would also be sent from the benefits for the Croatian economy and ecologically for the adoption of this law. So, in the evening of the European elections, the message that MPs of a different position are coming to the EU than before, the attitude that values their country, which appreciates their national interests and, as my colleague Grumoja said, this is not only a message to Italy, so it is not actually a message to Italy, but it is a message to other neighbouring countries, that Croatian and Croatian parliament will not be able to trade for some concessions, so that we have the most important national interest. So this is a lot, a lot of deeper messages than the laws itself and here, I'm going to ask of course to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139704	Thank you. Next is the 12th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak, he's gone. We have to vote on him. The next is the 13th amendment of MP Ante Pranic, he is gone, we must vote on him. With this we exhausted the debate on amendments, so I would now give one break to 15 and 20, so that those who applied for a further debate on the point that was interrupted, so that they could come and be here, and there are no equals. I can see they're gone, so I don't want to deny it. Here we go. I'll see you at 15 and 20. Party in 15.02 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139705	Proposal for a decision to amend the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed, but before that, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139706	Thank you very much, President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club because today you bowed down to Angela Merkel and Deutsche Telekom, you did not accept my proposal that the base stations need a construction permit only in the Republic of Europe. The only thing I asked is that we have the same rights as other countries, you have not accepted, now you will vote on an exclusive economic belt, where you will bow down to the fascist Tajani instead of protecting our Adriatic Sea. In 18.5. Plenkovic Angeli Merkel will also bow, as you did when you voted against the Construction Act. As so far, on 18.5. I will go to Bleiburg, bow to the victims, while Andrej, Bleiburg, while Andrej Plenkovic will bow to Angela Merkel.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139707	From false patriots, we didn't expect anything else. You played again for Angela Merkel and Deutsche Telekom, and now you're going to play, so, for Tajani, you're going to vote against an exclusive economic belt. But what do you expect from the man who wore black bags in the Fimi Media affair? What to expect from the man where WikiLeaks showed, means Gordana Jandroković Njonje who worked against Croatian interests and against the Croatian people [[I'm stopping, now I'm stopping you.]] means, in BiH [[Intruder: Listen...]] What to expect from Josip Boric... [[Intruder:...stop talking now]] /Intruder: Stop talking now/ [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The coloring of the tunnel, so during HDZ was his assistant [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do you expect from that representative Baricevic who got fired because of his fake diploma, now came here to HS, what do you expect from false patriots? [[Intruder: Listen...]] Nothing more than to betray Croatian national interests... That is all you know, to betray the Croatian people and Croatian national interests. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Come on now, now stop, please stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139708	Listen here, dear colleague Grumoja, saying that you're a piece of trash, that's all I have to say and you get a break...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139709	Why is he garbage?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139710	... Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139711	Better garbage than a traitor, better chop than a party sheep.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139712	Djakic, you are, you are a parasite, a locust who has destroyed Slavonia more than the Chetniks, it's you, the parasite, the locust one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-24-0.u139713	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue our work now, we have amendments submitted by the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, Representative Bozo Petrov, MP Slaven Dobrović, representative of Hrvoja Runtic, representative of Tomislav Panenić, representative of Sonja Čikotić, representative of Miro Bulj, representative of Nikola Grmoja, representative of Ines Strenja, representative of Marko Sladoljev, representative of Robert Podolnjak and representative of Ante Pranic. The amendment review was submitted by electronic means, and the amendment statement was carried out earlier in the session. In accordance with Article 201 of Regulation (EU) No Rules of Procedure, the amendment has been declared by the Proposer and the Government, who is not the proponent of the decision. We will now vote on amendments that are not accepted by the motionor or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, we're going to the First Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja, the promoter accepts it, but the government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We now go to Amendment number two, which the government does not accept, we will vote on this amendment because it is identical to all amendments to number 13. So we vote on amendments from 2nd to 13th that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. And we are now going to vote, the proposal for a decision to amend the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, which is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal didn't get enough votes, 20 MPs were for, four were abstentions, And 78 against. [[You've protected our Adriatic.]] Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to work. First point today: - Proposal for a Law implementing Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules for security codes on packaging of medicinal products for human use, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 596. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, dear Zeljko Plazonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, please.
