ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u148156	Sweared.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u148157	Congratulations to the representative on his sworn oath. ... I wish him and my colleagues Goran Maric both success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duties. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149056	Good day, everybody, do we agree on having small technical problems, do we agree to start without a display I will read the names, measure the time and I think we all agree on that we have confidence in measuring the time of our colleagues here. So the first item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on genetically modified organisms, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 666 She is in the first reading of course, since it is the bill. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Does the proposal's representative, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, want the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health to take the floor to give an additional explanation? Hello, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, the drafting of this new legislative proposal has been approached following an analysis of the provisions of the applicable Law on genetically modified organisms since it has been found not to constitute an appropriate regulatory framework for the implementation of European legislation in the field of the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment or for the placing on the market of GMO products containing or consisting of or stemming from genetically modified forms. On the basis of EU level, the Commission Directive was adopted on 8 March 2018, and then the amendment of the Directive of 2001. The European Parliament and the Council on the risk assessment of genetically modified organisms for the environment, as well as the amended Annexes 2, 3 and 4 to the Directive of 2001. The European Parliament and the Council of 12 March 2001 on deliberate introduction into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing the previous Council Directives in the field of environmental risk assessment. In order to improve the risk assessment of genetically modified plants in the environment and which were not legally binding and which were the basis for the implementation of the risk assessment, it was concluded by a long-term monitoring on the basis of updated data from the Council of the EU Council that existing legislation should be amended. The Commission Directive 2018 will update Annexes 2 to the Directive and include and upgrade stricter guidelines which will now apply to all genetically modified organisms, not only genetically modified plants. Based on technical progress and experience gained from the risk assessment of GMOs for the environment, and with the aim of simplifying the overall process for the authorisation of GMOs, it is necessary to coordinate to the greatest extent possible the collection of information among all stakeholders in the EU authorisation processes, and thus also in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the impact of GMOs and large applications in various areas of activity, I will list only some meanings in science, medicine, pharmacies, agronomy and the food industry with this legislative proposal will develop procedures in relation to the application and use of GMOs for scientific research in the light of the limited use of GMOs in closed so-called ‘closed’. the systems and procedures for the introduction of GMOs into the environment other than placing on the market, e.g. experimental experiments or so-called experimentation. the testing fields by approving the use of medicinal products, medicinal products clearly containing or consisting of GMOs or a combination of GMOs, and the procedures for placing those products on the market, restriction and prohibition of cultivation or cultivation, and of placing on the market GMOs and products containing or containing a combination of GMOs and their traceability, labelling, handling, transport, packaging and management of waste resulting from the use of GMOs and liability for damage caused by the illicit use of GMOs, and shall be determined at the end by the competent authorities and their powers and obligations as well as the administrative measures and infringement provisions for the implementation of this law. It will be harmonised in the course and provisions relating to the authorisation and obligations of official and national reference laboratories for GMOs with the Council of Europe Regulation of 2017 in such a way as to extend the period of authorisation from 2 to 4 years, and the competent authority of the public administration in charge of health services will be given the possibility to revise the work of those authorised laboratories. It will also develop criteria for the inclusion of closed systems of limited use of GMOs in levels of danger, standards for closed systems, prevention measures and other security measures, then handling methods and other conditions for working in closed systems of limited use of GMOs, and given the type of classification of genetically modified micro-organisms according to hazard levels. It will also improve the risk assessment system when introducing GMOs into the environment. In order to extend and strengthen the risk assessment provisions of GMOs when introducing the environment, an assessment mechanism will be created for both short-term and long-term intentional and unintended effects on the environment, human health, animals and plants. There will also be procedures for the application of the first GMO market, both in the EU and in the Republic of Croatia. A legal basis will also be created for the adoption of implementing acts necessary to limit and prohibit GMO cultivation or the combination of GMOs in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Provisions will also be made regarding the clinical trial of medicinal products, medical products of various kinds for so-called products. Advanced therapy consisting of or containing GMOs or a combination of GMOs according to which applicants for the implementation of such treatment will have to meet the requirements on the intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment or provisions on limited use of GMOs. It will also introduce the obligation to establish a written traceability procedure for GMOs and products consisting of or containing GMOs or combinations on the Croatian market, as well as the obligation to mark those products with identification codes of each GMO of the product to be placed on the market. In addition, provisions relating to the unique GMO register will be further developed, namely, the provisions relating to the reporting of GMO data by applicants and those applications. The responsibility of responsible inspection bodies for carrying out official controls or inspections in the area of GMOs on the market of the Republic of Croatia will be further developed. Provisions relating to the rights and obligations of persons authorised to carry out official controls or inspections will also be developed. In addition, infringement provisions will be further developed, both for legal and natural persons, in accordance with the nature of the offence, and with the aim of respecting the provisions of this law concerning the protection of human health, animal health and the conservation of the environment of the Republic of Croatia. The legislative proposal lays down the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, arrangements for the handling of GMOs, containing or consisting of GMOs in limited recovery, the approval of the use of medicinal products consisting of GMOs or combinations, the intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment for purposes other than the placing on the market, restriction or prohibition of breeding, the placing of products containing or consisting of GMOs on the market, handling, transport, packaging and management of waste resulting from the use of GMOs, as well as the liability for the damage caused by the illicit use of GMOs, and the competent authorities for the implementation of inspection and official controls and their tasks, regulations, administrations, measures and infringements of this law. Here, so much for first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149058	Thank you, too, Mr. Plasonic. You have several replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149059	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, one question for the start of this debate. Since we have been exposed to one hysteria following recent amendments to the law, we have assured these changes that Croatia will become a test rabbit for Monsanto and other large companies promoting GMOs. I wonder what happened? Has Croatia become a test rabbit? Are our shelves flooded with GMO products and have any GMOs appeared free of declared products?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149060	Mr. Plazonic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149061	A very short answer, as far as I know, we did not become test rabbits because our introduction of the directive from the EU and the implementation of that directive into our then law does not allow in any way, so that this fear was practically, I would say absolutely unwarranted, as this law will not fear any abuse, but, in fact, one complete control of all those organisms that we can bear under the name of genetically modified organisms. Let's not just think about plants, think about what the patient is using today seriously ill, especially in the manufacture of medical and medical products based on genetic modification. Let us remember from vaccination to further, so it will be clear how many such organisms have saved millions of lives, hence, we should sometimes look at GMOs, not just consider what may be far the most risky to use in terms of agricultural or inland production.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149062	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149063	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. It was written in the media, i.e. Experts said that in urine in Croatia 40% of citizens have glisophate in their blood, which means that the compound Monsanto made from means products, herbicides that are products that treat crops, such as A cidocor that destroys in Croatia weeds. In Croatia about 400 products already on the shelves of GMOs. It is not only the vaccination of fruit, GMOs are also the dangerous herbicides on which billions earn and the World Health Organization has said that glisophate is essentially harmful to human health. A potential cause of severe illness. We even have U.S. verdicts where Monsanto is paid for billions of dollars, and their products are in Croatia, and that's why I suggested it was a ban on GMOs, except for medical purposes. Big damage to people's health. [[Thank you, Mr. Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149064	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Plazonic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149065	So I think this, we need to distinguish GMOs from pesticides that are used and used in the daily production of agricultural products. It's not the same, and there's a big difference, and I wouldn't be so easy to identify myself for some scientific data that we've never heard or seen anywhere but rather based on those proven effects and effects, mainly pesticides that have been proven harmful to the human organism, cause a whole series, first of all, malignant disorders and malignancies. As far as I know, there is only one product in Europe that is registered for GMO use.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149066	Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, on the very trail of what my colleague Jovanovic was saying, and I was a participant in and hysteria that has been going on since before the adoption of this law and given the legitimate interest of the Croatian public in any change of such a law as regards GMOs, I am interested in whether, is it always thought that the attempt by some new law is quietly legalized by GMOs in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder if the direction is even after this law, I think it is still important for Croatia to remain a GMO free country as far as sowing is concerned, that is what it is important to say. And we'll elaborate the rest later.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149068	Dear Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149069	As for the introduction of GMOs or prohibition of use for the agricultural purposes of GMOs, we have so far had the law and this directive which we have adopted from Europe to this very objective and strives to prohibit any country that wishes to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs and modified agricultural plants. Without the introduction of this directive, we would not be able as an EU member to apply the law at all. We often need to know, however, in our address that we are part of the EU and all the laws that rule in the EU must in some way apply in Croatia. Therefore, there is no legitimate fear that the EU will allow the uncontrollable use of particularly agricultural products to be introduced by GMOs that can potentially be dangerous to all EU population.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149070	Thank you very much. And now Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149071	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. In your presentation you mentioned something that I appreciate is extremely important, which is a way of gathering information and having real-time information, so not only is it happening in Croatia when it comes to GMOs but also at EU level. So at a time of digitization at a time when we have really a bunch of information, I wonder how it works? Are there really opportunities for you to see what's going on at the same time, what are the things that we have programs, what applications can come up with? And it seems to me that it's always good that it's open to both public and citizens because this way when you don't have information, you're actually dealing with different information and we're scared of each other. And on the one hand, we don't need to be afraid, but on the other hand, we need to know the real situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149072	Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149073	In this way, there is an extranet GMO network at EU level and all data must be entered into that network and at the same time all EU countries have information on all the consequences, results and possible negative developments using any form of GMO. This is today I would say the most common way to spread all this important information at the same time among all EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149074	The last replica, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149075	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. You've brought us a bill of law and you say, we'll then prescribe procedures for protection, traceability of food, etc. That is why I see this and the party Let's change Croatia as a Trojan horse in introducing GMOs to a small door. It has already been introduced, and it is large in Croatia. Instead of passing a bill on organic food, on organic products that must be on the shelves of the trade chains taken over by the foreigners, you have practically brought this to our agenda. Dear God knows how many thousands of tons of meat we've broken from European warehouses, South American food here in Croatia. We don't have the food sequence now, and you say they'll write what's from GMOs. Everything you say, you said recently 67 too... will destroy the pension system, and now you're not gonna say everything's okay. You're lying. It's just that this government is lying to the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149076	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149077	Thank you very much. We're a little bit insinuating the traceability of GMO products, regardless of their etiology and their biological activity from drugs and beyond the Food Act. The food law is something else, and that's basically not what we're dealing with right now. We are now strengthening the traceability of all GMO products by this law. This law is not to be a Trojan horse, it does not bring any gifts, it only strengthens, provides at all control and traceability of all products regardless of the etiology and their biological usability from placing on the market or in any form of use of these medicines, and until the time when these products or consequences of the use of GMOs are required to destroy. Therefore, this is only a law that serves all stages of monitoring the traceability of use, use and effects on the human organism of GMOs that do not always have to be both exclusively and negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149078	Thank you, Secretary of State. He asked for the word Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149079	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the vice president on behalf of the MOST club for a 10-minute break on this point because it's a very important bill. We are witnessing that I have given the law banning the full ban on GMOs except for medical purposes which most MPs unfortunately did not accept. And we need to know that in the Republic of Croatia. in the EU of 60 and one product imported by GMOs from other countries that half has been poisoned i.e. that is resistant to lisofate. We need to know that we import a pig a billion kunas that use soy and that's cheap on shelves, and what's a GMO 100% product. We have to protect all the mayors, all the counties are against GMOs, and we here every two, three months from you some new legal initiatives that don't protect our organic production because of this we have a decline in production is the harmful GMO food that has been poisoned with Monsant's herbicides and their products and the overdomination of Monsanto both on seeds and on production throughout the world is now a predominance and a struggle for food. We exclusively have to deal with domestic production, protect ourselves from GMO products that Monsanto pushes through his lobbyists, through all governments and now it's a struggle, the fight is too great, we need to know that Austria has already banned glyphosate as a compound that is '74. Mr. Pushed Monsanto, it's a cidocor that's for weeds, you know what it is and it's connected and the same side of the GMO medal and that production, absolutely the same side. And we must not be experimental rabbits and not only that, but also the World Health Organization has said that the products that are treated with this are dangerous to lives and people, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149080	Mr. Bull, time, thank you very much. I'll give you 10 hours and 5 minutes, thank you. It's 9:55 p.m. We continue the debate, but will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor first? [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] No, I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149082	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate. We have before us the Law on genetically modified organisms. To begin with, you should always say some things and, among other things, you have decided not to go back into some change but to do it after a series of changes that have been made, a new law and we appreciate it and we think that this is a better model, a better way of doing it, a better way of doing it, a better way of getting along, and for all of you who are doing it under that law. When we talk about this law, then we really need to make a few decisions and these are the decisions that you need at the level of one country's policy. One country needs to decide and there is an opportunity to pretend that everything that happens in the world doesn't exist, to pretend that climate change is not facts like fact, like some respected officials, so even the President of America pretends that climate change is not a fact but does not need to be an expert, it doesn't need to be an analysis to see it actually happening. Likewise, GMOs are a fact. The point is how a country will treat it. There is a possibility that certain countries are treated in a way that there is no such thing, that you should ban everything and what does the ban bring? It leads to no matter the secret channels, the smuggling, in different ways, to come here and you won't be able to control it or decide it and you say okay, we'll pass the law, we'll be very careful, we'll take care of it, we'll create all the conditions, the mechanisms, the ways to control it together. So what do we all think is going to happen together? We Brexit are looking out there, there's something going on with some big Britain, there's some Brexit going on, that's a lot of fun for us, and Mr Johnson has a Parliament or no Parliament. The fact is that the UK will be because Great Britain was an integral part of the EU, the fact is that this Brexit will happen sooner or later and the fact is that from the good relations of Great Britain and America, a series of things that are not acceptable to us and to them because of their good relations with America will be acceptable. So, we have to make protection mechanisms, we have to take care of it but not in a way that we say in Croatia is all inadmissible or it will be acceptable. I can only tell you one example very well, I always like to tell examples. My good friend has lived in the Netherlands since the '90s. Normally, it deals with horticulture, agronomics and the house there and it has a beautiful garden but of course long before we had a series of organic products, these organic products were in the Netherlands and of course those roses were full of ears and I don't know what not and when I was coming, I asked her what you want me to bring you, she says bring me all those pesticides that are in Croatia, so it was somewhere in 2000 because I in the Netherlands already can't have them and with these ears I can't handle. Of course, I went to the most normal herbal pharmacy, said there give me everything I need, bring it to the Netherlands, and suddenly her roses were the most beautiful in the whole part, but also the most beautiful, so eventually she was still carrying the neighbors. So these are facts, there are no Chinese walls, there was a Chinese wall, there were no Chinese walls, everything that's happening to you in the environment, it's happening to you. Everything that's going to happen in some other EU countries will happen to us too, they didn't want to, but what we have to do, we need to know what we want. So on the one hand, of course, that any debate that anyone will have in terms of GMOs, no, no, in a way that they can't, these are debates that cause you much more interest, but let's let my people try this country to be reasonable. Let's see that every ban leads to no matter what ban I used to carry pesticides to the Netherlands where there weren't going to be someone from the Netherlands bringing something here, that's a fact, it's all a real state. So it's incomparable to know what we want, to know what we're going to do, to know how we're going to do, to have good control criteria, to have these control criteria at the same time that something's going on, to really use some comparative advantages, to really have, so we always read everything about agricultural production there. So those who deal with their farm that's GMO free, that's the product that the Republic of Croatia boasts about, that's the product that you can go out with, that these are products that are somehow basically one story that we have and that's our comparative advantage. So let's try to take advantage of comparative advantages, and in situations where it's supposed to be, let's be reasonable. I'm many years old, and I've learned that any exclusion results in a bad situation. If you're in any story exclusive, it'll never do you any good. So there should also be several branches, several options, of course, that all of us especially when it comes to food are very careful. We're careful because we really have experience of not knowing what we're eating. So anything about agriculture really needs to be careful. I think caution is extremely important. I didn't accidentally ask the Secretary of State how it is with the information, the information is being obtained in real time, the information is extremely important, it needs to be opened, and it really needs to be able to come real fast to all the data. To come, to sort of define these basic issues that are defined by this law, it seems to us at the GLAS Club that the law is well structured, there seem to be some things that may still be defined between the first and second debates, and that is what our obligation is, and that is to elaborate all the procedures of the first placing on the market both in the EU and in the Republic, we think that there should be maximum caution and see when something is placed on the EU market what it means for us. It is absolutely necessary to bring it right out of this law, and these are the customs of all the laws that we have a series of regulations because I have seen that all those rules that were in force in accordance with the former laws will be in force until new ones are passed, but there is always a need to really keep an eye on and what's most important, we can have great law, can be perfectly prescribed, it is important to follow the law regularly, it is important that the public is truly informed, that when something happened that should not have happened at the same time react because otherwise we will have the fact that we will have a law that will be correct, with which we will be able to praise, but that we really have a different situation. The Republic of Croatia has a series of comparative advantages. We need those comparative advantages to be used. These comparative advantages are especially in agriculture which can indeed be shown and be GMOs free, but in the world where we live there are no boundaries in which you will close, no conditions that you will close, it is much better to be open, but to be careful and to control the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149083	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149084	Dear Vice-President HS, I am sorry that there is no colleague Lovrinović and some colleagues, so that we can, so we can, so I called for an individual debate, so that we can discuss it, too, too bad there is no replica on behalf of the clubs. So, we have before us a proposal for a law on GMOs that brings national legislation into line with the new acquis of the EU and sets out the legal and official and inspection aspects of business with GMOs. The GMOs were also discussed in previous conferences of this HS, and I think we've always discussed a lot on committees and on the Mother's Committees and on the Committee on Health and Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and I think we've always had some agreeable attitudes on these committees, and then when it comes to the plenary session, there are dissonant tones, and I'd like to say it in person. The analysis of the applicable GMO law found that this existing law does not constitute an appropriate regulatory framework for the implementation of European legislation in the area of GMOs or for the placing on the market of GMOs and products containing GMOs. On 8 March 2018, The EU Commission Directive 2018/350 of 8 March amending Annexes 2, 3 and 4 to Directive 2001/18 of the European Community, with a view to simplifying the overall process and authorising GMOs, has been necessary to coordinate the collection of information among all stakeholders in the EU authorisation process, and thus also in the Republic of Croatia. The application and use of GMOs for the purpose of scientific research in the context of limited use of GMOs in a closed system of procedures for the purpose of introducing GMOs into the environment, different placing on the market, authorisation of the use of medicinal products containing and consisting of a GMO procedure for placing on the market, restriction and prohibition of cultivation and traceability and labelling and handling and transport and packaging of GMOs will be subject to harmonisation of the provisions concerning the authorisation and obligations of official and national reference laboratories for GMOs will develop criteria for the inclusion of closed systems, limited use of GMOs in different levels of danger, prevention measures, ways of handling and other conditions for the work of a closed system of restricted use of GMOs. In advance, a risk assessment system will be developed for the introduction of GMOs into the environment, an evaluation mechanism will be created, both in the short and long-term effects of GMOs on the environment, human health, animals and plants. The procedures for the application of the first GMO market, both the EU and the Republic of Croatia, will be developed. Provisions will be made regarding clinical studies of medicinal products, advanced therapy medicinal products, consisting of GMOs containing GMOs or a combination of GMOs. An obligation will be introduced to establish a written process for the traceability of GMOs on the Croatian market. The responsibility of responsible inspection services for carrying out official controls will be further developed. Violent provisions will also be developed for both legal and natural persons. Let me just elaborate on the situation with us and on the official controls that have been carried out so far. From 2007 to 1.4.2019 until the national monitoring of the presence of GMOs in food was guided by inspections, it now passed, we know, from 1.4 to the inspectorate, in 2018 was sampled by the sanitary inspection at the Ministry of Health 185 food samples. Only 6 samples found a contamination of 0.1% of the mass share, indicating technological contamination. In the first three months. In 2019, 92 samples of food, soybean, meat products, food supplements, wheat products, confectionery products, rice, rice products were sampled by the Ministry of Health inspection before going to the State Inspectorate. All the samples were negative for GMOs. The Ministry of Agriculture conducted the monitoring of GMOs in seed and green mass in 2018. Agricultural inspectors sampled 30 samples of plant seed in 10 legal persons. All the samples were negative for GMOs. Agricultural inspectors conducted official controls on corn, soybeans, rape oil at plant production level in 50 subjects, taking 50 samples. Not a single sample was found of GMOs. By 1.9.2007, the EU Commission authorised the placing on the EU market, and hence, the RH 69 GMOs of plant culture intended for use in animal feed, and this was approved. So 30 GMO corn, 20 GMO soybeans, 13 cotton, 5 oily tails and 1 sugar tail. So, that should be very clear and loud to people, that they would not lie, that in Croatia is allowed, as well as on the EU GMO food market for animals, and that is, later on I will be very happy to elaborate in my personal debate, but these are the things that are so. For the time being in Europe, it is important to say, that is why we have asked our secretary of state, approved only 1 GMO, Monsanto 810, according to the EU Commission Implementing Decision 2016/321 cultivation of the GMO corn Monsanto 810 is prohibited in the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia has requested the exemption of Croatia's territory from possible cultivation of GMOs. So, the HDZ Club will support this law, we are very clear and consistent when we talk about cultivation, we are against breeding in the Republic of Croatia, but we are for it, as well as the environment, so that under control of the declaration we are working and can feed animals with GMO products, as is the whole environment of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149085	Thank you. Now it is Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, who will speak for the SDP's Club of Representatives. I'm sorry, Mr. Bull, that I forgot you had to talk. Here you go. Mr. Miro Bulj in front of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149086	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretary with a co-worker. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian state was in 98th, this parliament passed a law in which it was directed, meaning the law that Croatia would be without GMOs. Of course, it was the best law, however, under the influence of EU entry, we changed those attitudes, so I don't see at all why we are passing any laws when this Parliament passed the law in 98 years, and in this law it is said that GMO crops can be combined with organic production, which is impossible because they can't be planted GMO corn product, 100 m or any other seed that Monsanto forges and pushes, of course it's a monopoly and dominated by these companies that have done great damage to and from countries like Croatia, our children have actually made test rabbits and we see an increase in various diseases, and the World Health Organization has also said that crops treated with chemicals. The herbicides produced by Monsanto mean, carcinogenic and other numerous causes of the disease, and we need to know that the Republic of Croatia imports, for example, only a pig, I said a billion kunas that sow feed, and that's why the product is cheap, and that's why our pig farming was destroyed, our agriculture that is now under the weeds and, of course, it follows from the 1.1th law, i.e. that we are going to sell land to foreign, natural and legal persons who will buy it for small money and of course there will be planted products that match Monsanto's team and their lobbyists. And science is really, scientists here face that GMOs, not GMOs, but it's not the GMO that's been dealing with 10,000 years, it's a fruit vaccination or what my Dalmatia says is a fruit loading. That's not it. It's not that, it means one process and the procedure is to dominate the rule of seed, of course unhealthy food. We already in the Republic of Croatia have about 400 products of GMO foreign products that destroy our agriculture and create uncompetitive farmers. I'd be happy to have pomidores or tomatoes on our markets to sell our grandmothers, but when we see the importing ones by me and tomatoes can be 3 years, you can hold them, they're always the same. Now which are the reasons, Mr. Križanić said earlier to me that it was because of me, explain these reasons why pig farming failed or whether GMO seeds eat and whether we eat that meat that these animals eat GMO seeds and which are import meaning pork. Is that the cause, that import, is that the cause of the destruction of our eco-production, of our Slavonia, of empty fields. And we know that grains, mainly soybeans, are 90% GMOs and are treated with chemically-treated glyphosate, which Austria has already banned. That the EU is breaking and saying in 2023, Germany already, other countries are in favour of stopping the monopoly of these corporations, which are likely to have a huge impact on scientists who often do not want to sign. And once again, the Croatian State, I gave that law and amendment and what the Parliament voted '98. I gave that amendment and I'm still standing in front of it, then I said that the ban on breeding, transport and trade in the Republic of Croatia and everything else is, we're test rabbits, science still faces, we have a scientist who said that it was OK to eat Monsanto forsy, of course because they're powerful, they have money they can influence, they can influence even scientists. And now it's a conflict. There are other thoughts, and it will always be a conflict. But it is still at the level that Croats are test rabbits. Everything that's on GMO drawers we're test rabbits and I'm behind it. Because everything I read, asked for, talked to experts from Croatia, read foreign experts, statements, faced. So here I have a lot of material that I've been extracting, and I see that it's a huge problem and a huge influence of corporations. Even Monsanto in America loses huge litigation with huge amounts where the disease of people we have here has recently been in our media and published an article in Free Dalmatia by a man who has suffered from their chemical agent glyphosate which means glyphosate which means he has been ill and millions have lost because of this influence. So that's what they're treating and research says that this compound is carcinogenic. And that's what the World Health Organization says. So are we the test rabbits then? Are we for organic production, for domestic production, to buy in our grandmothers in the markets, me who comes from the village, with my grandmother, I sold it, in the markets of my Sinj, others are in other markets, but there's no more. No, now vice versa, now it's invaluable to produce domestic products for GMO products, foreign and of course that now even by vans... by the villages, by the road, you produce GMOs instead of the other way around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We used to go to the markets, sell, probably even on the Zadar market there were domestic products, now very little. So we have to make a political decision. That's why, as I did seven and eight months ago, I rerouted the law, the bill on the ban on genetically modified organisms, except for medical purposes, because it should be passed by the Ministry of Health, they're the most competent because where life depends, of course, that's where the waist should tell its own. And these discussions are good, they're good debates, but somebody say pork that's GMO-fed soy, it reaches great weight in the short term. And you see by the trade chains the neck of the pork 10 Kuna being and this is not possible for our domestic producer in organic production to reach. And what we're instigating now, are we instigating, Mr. Križanić, you said earlier, this isn't like, this is now communication, I know that you've made a huge failure by regulation that you can't replicate to me, but it's not a problem for Mira Bulja, it's this majority that passed the rule that can't be replicated on behalf of the club, but I wish you could replicate to me whether it suits you to import GMO pork. And does when we eat that meat do we eat GMO products? Whether we, we didn't mean what pork ate soybeans, tons of soy buckshot pump up in a couple of months, it's gonna be harder than our whole pig for a year. That's why we don't have Dalmatian prosciutto because more people don't make pork, so they don't grow it, they bring it into the freezers of GMO meat. That's one example. I am sorry that in my Sinjsko field we do not grow organic production, which in 2019 did not quote the Sinjsko polje. Why? Because it doesn't pay for GMO products the sides are cheaper, more resilient. They don't need a freezer at all, they don't need anything. We're the ones who need to decide and all the county said that against GMOs, imports, transport, trade and we know that our people, farmers, don't have enough resources like these multinational companies and that these multinational companies are their seeds, their herbicides, and everything they have simply creates a monopoly on both their seeds and our people. I will repeat once again, as science cannot agree, so I say once again that we are trying rabbits, that GMOs have terrible damages, terrible effects on Croatian agriculture, on human health, and that is the conclusion that I am giving, and that is why I have referred to the procedure this time, last time 90 MPs were against it. But if we are going to be a state within the EU, every legislation has the right, why it has the right to bring every parliament. Why don't we just make organic production and it would be our brand, to be our brand, to know that in the Republic of Croatia, organic production is produced throughout the Republic of Croatia. Was that some kind of problem? Of course, we would find it hard to defend ourselves from their money from those syringes that people earn in health. But I think we have to fight that as Assembly representatives of HS we have that right and propose. I gave it, I said this proposal, this law of yours, with changes I respect, but the fact that it's contradictory, that you're saying that the sea is both organic and GMO production together, impossible to be land in the field one GMO, and on the other, I can't, it's just the wind carrying, nature, you can't, when the storm is smoking seeds, means you can't influence that you can't. We must determine ourselves, so vote we are for GMOs and crops, but if you do so then you must always know that the counties have brought that against GMOs and that HS, always keep in mind, '98. voted that the Republic of Croatia had no GMOs, production, imports, transport, trade. It's up to us now. Of course, colleagues and colleagues that I'm going to mention are going to mention whether this cidocor or pesticide that our peasants are spraying the fields, it's carcinogenic and poisonous, so it's proven that the treated soils are these herbicides which are produced by Monsanto and the fact that scientists who have done research have proved that in the urine in the EU 40% of citizens have oriphosphate, meaning simply since '74. When Monsanto kicked out that product he grew to, a huge number, a lot, hundreds and hundreds of times used more and in agriculture, and in us more used for weeds, you know what when you reach weeds, weeds, there is nothing behind it, there is nothing behind it, and when it is treated of course to affect health and that is the World Health Organization and said, Austria has already banned that compound, it has made a decision, other countries prohibit it, there has been a struggle in the EU, they say until 2023, but there is too much influence by multinational companies, Bayern, now and Mosanto, they, the triba speak openly, together they want both power over the seeds and agricultural production and the dependence of agricultural and state about them. We have to keep our domestic production, but more and more are losing it, simply people no longer have the will to do so, and that it is forbidden and that we are fighting for organic production and that we pass the ban law and that the Republic of Croatia is free from the Republic of Croatia, believe me, it would be a brand, believe me, it would be a brand. If we have the strength to fight today that ours, so as not to be a guinea pig, I respect those other views that will say and colleagues who spoke behind me and before me, however, this body must make a political decision. I know they'll be watching from all aspects of co-worker what she could have just said, we can't be a Chinese wall, but we can't even be open to our children being test rabbits and us. We just can't let that happen, we have to look at all aspects. And once again, I've given the esteemed secretary of the GMO ban, I expect you colleagues, I know that the government will refuse this law if it rejected it 7-8 months ago, but I still see that some of the shifts you make, because of the pressure of the public you try to get away with, and simply the European directives that affect this, but I expect that we will not allow the use of GMOs, limited use, that we will limit the full use of it, and that is all because of the preservation of our agriculture, because of the health of our people, it is our obligation to protect health as the basis of the social policy, which is our real. We will also protect the Croatian economy and agriculture, our farmer and cattlemen, and once again I am personally against GMOs, imports, transport and production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149087	Now it's Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149088	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, will immediately at the beginning of the SDP Club support this first reading of the GMO law. I also have to say that after today's debate, there will be no hysteria and unwarranted media alert because of the irresponsible advances of the parts of the colleagues and quasi of the professional texts that we have been able to read, in which the importance of the last amendments to the laws has been completely reversed by the claims that, I will quote once again, I will allow the Croats to become the experimental rabbits of Monsanto and other large companies promoting GMOs. So, colleagues and colleagues, as we have heard today, as we have spoken, and I, as an opposition representative, reiterated that the amendments at the time were exactly the opposite of everything that was claimed in the statements and which is why we, as Parliamentarians, were also called in various ways. Therefore, then amendments to the laws of all EU members, including Croatia, have given the right to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in its area without any scientific argument, which was not possible until then. So until then you could not, without scientific argument, ban GMO cultivation on your territory, and that is exactly how these changes are going, or a whole new law that guarantees exactly that. So, by introducing European legislation into our legislation, we are allowed to have legal consequences without being prosecuted by the World Trade Organisation, or exempt from GMO cultivation without having to explain it scientifically. So, although we have been accused of introducing GMOs, it has proved that the ignorant and unnecessary producers of hysteria, since the changes we have made some time ago, and this law goes in favour of the opponents of GMOs because, based on that declaration, the basis of those amendments and this law in Croatia limit, it prohibits the cultivation of GMOs and Croatia remains GMOs free from the cultivation of countries. Also, colleagues and colleagues must clearly say, today no country in the world can be completely GMO free in the full meaning of that word because it would mean that in that country biomedical research cannot be conducted, medicines cannot be produced, antibiotics cannot be produced, and that is, you will agree to something that would be devastating for the whole world. Similarly, a number of scientific researches have been carried out to date on the impact of GMO crops on cattle, some on humans, but no scientific evidence has been found that GMOs pose an increased risk to health both cattle and humans, but we can look at it differently. Countries that are the world's largest GMO producers, such as Canada, for example, or in Europe, Spain, have an expected life span significantly greater than Croatia. So if GMOs were so harmful then Canada and Spain would live shorter, but the longest living in Europe is right in Spain. Spain and Canada average life expectancy for 82 years, Croatia 78, so this one data shows that hysteria and fear of GMOs are actually completely unjust. We heard the introduction so I won't repeat much that our current law at this time still does not fully represent the appropriate regulatory framework for the implementation of European legislation that protects us from GMOs. Therefore, for this reason we also support these changes, with particular emphasis on ensuring that these legal changes will further ensure better quality control of GMO products. And what I once again emphasise for all those who listen, so by passing this new GMO law, will not because it must not affect the official policy according to which the Republic of Croatia is declared a GMO of free state cultivation. What I would particularly like to stress, however, is the most important differences in relation to the current legislative framework, as I consider it very important and good to refer to the introduction of medicinal products and medicinal products consisting of or containing GMOs or combinations for the purpose of conducting clinical trials, gene therapy, prevention and treatment of the obligation to authorise all laboratories to examine, control and monitor GMOs and to further develop the risk assessment methodology for GMOs, official and national reference laboratories for GMOs, and the rights and obligations of persons authorised to carry out inspection and official controls in the area of GMOs. At the very end, I call on the Secretary of State and the Ministry to pay further attention to the comments that were in the debate, in particular some remarks of the Green Action, because I believe that their inclusion in the final text would give greater quality of text, especially regarding the public, transparency, involvement of civil society in some bodies that will be established under this law because we will only provide transparency and availability of information and through web services to ensure that we avoid hysteria that occurs from time to time when GMOs are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149089	Now it is Mr Davor Vlaovic's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149090	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker. I welcome you all together on behalf of the HSS and Democrats club and I stress that HSS and Democrats are that Croatia remains GMO free or that we do not have GMOs in our environment in Croatia. And the fact is, a lot of people say and write that that's how it is, that we're still free from GMOs growing, but we're not on the road, we're not in some scientific research. What we draw strength from is to say that we insist that Croatia loses GMOs in our production and in nature at all is the fact that all 20 counties in the Republic of Croatia have applied and declared the decisions of their county congregations that they want to remain an area without GMOs. It should also be pointed out that over 52% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is included in the Natura 2000 network which is also an obstacle and would have to be an obstacle to the introduction of such organisms into the Republic of Croatia. Also, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the Danube soy declaration where EU member states are interested in soybean farming in their own needs for their own development from their own seed houses without GMOs. It was also an initiative, and I think Croatia has signed agreements with Alpe Adria, meaning Slovenia, Italy, Austria where we want to strengthen this position, to be without GMOs in its nature especially in agriculture. And then we expect that this proposed law, which approximately sublimes all the five amendments to the GMO law so far, which introduces a set of declarations and decisions of the European Commission and of the Council in this law into Croatian legislation, should also be a tool to keep it that way, in view of all that I have said in advance. However, what is in the law, which we are concerned, is that we want to make public here that certain articles in this law are changed for a number of reasons, first of all, if no requirement has been submitted to the Republic of Croatia to any institution in the Republic of Croatia, according to no institution to allow the introduction of such materials for clinical trials, studies in agricultural production or genetic research, so at least it says in this material that no application has been submitted so far. Why, then, we must install this possibility into the law and it is stated in Article 8 that the limited use of GMOs in the closed system can be submitted to the competent national body, the Ministry of Health, to approve the examination in the closed system and then a series of elements that the applicant must substrate, in which way the competent national authority or minister of the regulation will be managed and what is in that case, if such a case occurs, it is important to point out that the decision and the rules on how this would be done. It is one danger that without the knowledge of the public, which has pointed out here and the Green Action in its objections to this law, without the knowledge of the public minister under the pressure of some multinational companies and we know that they have a lot of capital, while being put into a position to approve such a request and to enter into our space even in a closed system such material. We are particularly concerned that certain items and articles indicate that they can also call for the confidentiality of information. I understand that every multinational company, every manufacturer, protects some of their own patents, some idea of their own, but in cases like this, when it comes to GMOs, I don't think we should call for secrecy, so that the Republic of Croatia and all of us should give birth to everything they've had in research, what are the effects of that and whether there have been side effects. It is also important to highlight one problem, which is to solve waste that is infected or infected or something like that. There's no waste management plan in the Republic of Croatia, no waste management plan, no waste treatment from waste treatment, no waste water, no policy solutions, and if we have any, we don't. Well, then, as we write it in the law, I think we should immediately initiate changes to the laws of others and the waste management plan and, in a way, solve wastes of any kind of study of GMOs, preparations and the like. It's unaligned. What particularly bothers us and what we are safe against is that we are. 31 allows for the introduction of GMOs into the environment. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is responsible for, yes, defining those protection zones, we have the right to, and that is, what is crucial is that the European legislation allows members to restrict or prohibit their own rules of entry, transportation, testing of GMOs in their territory, and this law will be a tool for that. But who guarantees to us, to you the minister and yet the minister in cooperation with colleagues from other competent ministries, brings conditions under which some GMOs can be entered into the environment in the Republic of Croatia? Why do we leave that possibility at all, why don't we say no to national legislation, in Croatia we don't need research on agricultural cultures and we don't allow such materials or studies to enter our space? We are not HSS against progress in agriculture, against new research and science, but the fact that 20 counties said they did not want it, the fact that we are in Natura 2000, Soja Danube, the fact that we want to develop ecological agriculture and that here the Minister of Agriculture boasts, the number of areas shown in the Republic of Croatia as organic farming, although we know that it is not often, that this is not the right ecological agriculture because unfortunately we have areas planted by multi-annual cultures on oranics that are not intended for multi-annual plantings, depicted as organic agriculture, harvesting and direct payments, and in natural society there is no benefit because there is no production, there is no income in the RH budget. But anyway, now that we're working on a farming strategy, and we've heard that it's working, that it's in the final phase, then we should define where we want to develop ecological agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. And here in law I say, we can define ecological zones where GMOs shouldn't come into any interrogations. Do we have them, are they defined? Well, we have never in the Republic of Croatia done a rheonization of Croatian agriculture and we know by our climate conditions where what could be grown and where the best effects and production are in such climate conditions, and this is exactly the tool if we want and I suggest that we install in this strategy one of the comparative advantages of developing agriculture and food production in the Republic of Croatia as ecological agriculture, and I believe that this chapter will certainly be in the strategy. If we're already doing it parallelly, then let's not at all allow ourselves to have open surface experiments in the Republic of Croatia with genetically modified fruit seed material or any other forms of GMO. It is simply inadmissible for us from HSS and we ask that this part be thrown out of the law until the second reading, and if we are not sure in the second reading we will submit amendments and that here in Article 31 we do not allow the entry into the environment of any fruit seed and any other material in the Republic of Croatia that would be used as reproductive material. counterpart Jovanovic said there is no scientific research and evidence that so far proves that the material that has GMOs in it is harmful to human health. And listen, there are various researches and they are mainly paid to these multinational companies that also produce herbicides and pesticides and genetically modified seed material and, of course, they probably dose certain data to the public, and there are a number of lawsuits in both America and other countries where these organisms are used and where there are rulings that certain substances are harmful to human health. But why even bring about an opportunity in the Republic of Croatia to sue some company that put it on the market because it's a real danger that due to climate change, because of natural disasters, if we put some kind of crop in the test area somewhere, that some of it escapes into nature, wind, water, insects, who can prevent the fertilisation of the cross in nature? No one. Then why at all put it in danger and why bring it into Croatian legislation, especially since the EU directives are just telling us that as a member, we have the right to restrict the presence of such organisms in our area by our regulations. So since we're already writing regulations, I suggest that there's no way in our law at all to do experiments in nature with reproductive material, fruity and other material that's genetically modified and infected with organisms. I must also warn you once again that in all of these acts it allows this notifier to enter such material in Croatia to call for the confidentiality of the data. Please, what confidentiality of information when it comes to such preparations and such products should not be classified and should all be substantiated to the competent authority to which they apply. And secondly, there must be a plan to resuscitate the terrain if an incident occurs and redefines it by the minister's rule. And I said we haven't solved any other dangerous wastes in the Republic of Croatia, and this would certainly be dangerous waste and certainly need to change other laws and then better to start by saying no to such materials in the Republic of Croatia. I must also say that what has been objected to by some associations and the Green Action that the public who is interested in this law has invested 25 of its observations on this law and proposal, not only the objections but also the constructive proposals, and here you all get it. The answer was only received. What does that mean? Well, that's not fair, that's a good part of the people who are from the profession. They would like to hear from the legislator whether they have considered these remarks, which they respect, which is not and why not, and not just taken into consideration. So I ask you for a second reading that these proposals that will possibly be in the public debate provide a good explanation for how other ministries and other promoters do so. We do not accept this proposal well because of this, but it has been included in the law or it has been settled by some other regulation, and not this way, and I do not think it is fair for these people who have worked hard in the public debate that lasted only 15 days, and the legal obligation is that 30 days should take place and if they have already made an effort to write them correctly what is accepted and what is not accepted. And one of the main remarks was the public's work of state authorities and public insight into all these activities that could happen tomorrow, and we suggest they don't happen at all, but if you adopt such a law then it would be a turn when you establish a national council that will make up 17 members who will follow such activities in the Republic of Croatia to be in that body and civil society. If civil society can't already, I think we should be as the Croatian Parliament, so I suggest that this body be number 19 members and be one member of the position, one member of the opposition in that national council. I think the promoter would accept this and add for another reading, and it would certainly be useful for the Croatian Assembly without which such laws should not be implemented in practice, and this would in a certain way, through cooperation in this body and working in this body, be a control mechanism where the Croatian Assembly and we Assembly representatives, or those in that body, could inform us and the public about what is going on and what is happening in the Republic of Croatia on this matter. I repeat again, we from HSS are not against progress, against science and against research, but we are against it being introduced into Croatian agriculture and the environment by any GMO and, of course, we are asking that this article be reformed and that no experimental surface in the Republic of Croatia is allowed. And secondly, the issue of identifying GMOs remains insufficiently monitored by our bodies, especially since we have a border towards BiH where many of our agricultural producers buy seed fruit material and I think we need to strengthen these controls in order to protect our agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149091	Thank you. It is now up to Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149092	Dear Secretary of State, here we are today discussing the law, No. 666, here's an interesting number, a proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms. The first thing that came to my eyes is one interesting thing and that's that the Ministry of Health is proposing, why isn't it the Ministry of Agriculture? No one said here and you didn't say, so neither did a colleague, Jovanovic, who is a doctor in front of the SDP, that GMOs are harmful, I haven't heard that from you. Then why does the Ministry of Health represent this law in the first place? I would have put it under the Ministry of Environmental Protection, under the Ministry of Agriculture and not under the Ministry of Health if the GMOs weren't harmful and actually up to you in your debate, I listened carefully, I didn't hear that they were harmful or that they weren't harmful. So that's how you stayed undefined. Unlike you, your future coalition partner, Mr Jovanovic said are not harmful, he was still such a guy and we will mean it, we are for the liberalisation of GMO products, let GMO products come to Croatia and let them be as much as possible because it is not harmful. I'd like to hear your attitude. And another thing, if they're not as harmful as he says, and we haven't heard from you, then why are we defending ourselves against GMOs? Why are we limiting the market? So, one simple question I'm asking you right now, and I expect you to answer me? So are they harmful or not harmful? I want to hear your attitude, too, what you think. If they're not, if you're saying they're not, then why are we passing the law, so which one are we limiting, if they are, well, let's talk a little bit more about this. There's a lot of talk about GMOs in public space, very much, and I have to admit here I'm doing the same thing for today a little bit getting ready and looking at everything that's written on social networks and on the Internet, which experts and I would be very careful here, I would be very careful because there are research, there is incontestible evidence that in some cases GMOs cause some health disturbances in people, there, there, there. So there are, so they're causing allergies, causing digestive disorders, and a lot of things haven't been investigated yet. There are experts, doctors, specifically fellow Jovanovic argues it is not harmful, this should be introduced as much as possible and this is welcome to our market. Unfortunately, I'm going to say, in the world today, GMOs are everywhere, so everywhere they are, we just can't even pass them anymore, they're there. And all those who think that GMOs are not in Croatia, unfortunately, there are many. Recent research has shown 2800 products in Croatia that even 146 products already have GMOs, already has GMOs, it is there. And I really am about to introduce GMOs to that extent while it's for medical research and I really don't have it, so if we could help a man, a child, any person, so come on, that's where I'd step down and I'd make a line. But what we're doing today, this is once again harmonizing with one EU directive, another harmonisation, we're always coordinating something, right? So all this is what the EU is conducting to us and I'm actually afraid that since we always say to ourselves statistics is a mistake, that we are somewhere on the margin, that we are not important, in one real and adequate way we have considered this law. I also know if we were to pass the law as it was and suggested here that we would completely ban it, we say, there is no GMO in Croatia. I don't know which way to stop me because he's really all there. However, I really want to hear from you, since the health ministry here is the promoter and not the Ministry of Agriculture or Environmental Protection, the question first, why you? Is it because it is suspected that GMO products affect people's health and if it affects, let's talk about it. Let's let the Croatian state do a detailed analysis of how much it affects and then let's make sure that the GMO in Croatia doesn't exist and that it is as little as possible. So it's a simple question and a simple dilemma. Here I just have to say in the end, Croatia has one specific situation and its geographical position is such that as much as 50% of Croatia's space is within the Natura 2000 ecological network, meaning protected and for this very reason, I think that Croatian space is very valuable, valuable and in the context of Europe and the world, so that we need to approach this problem more carefully, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149093	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. The goddess of Macar, who will speak for the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149094	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here we are today discussing GMOs, or the bill. It is a topic that in Croatia, and I believe and beyond, everyone thinks they have something to say. There are those who are really against it and think that for all diseases, for all that is not good in this world is the fault of GMOs. There are others who really think that GMOs, research, their application will achieve greater production, that there will be no hunger in the world, that many things will improve. We in the Republic of Croatia have decided to be GMOs free, that we do not produce GMOs, whether for humans or for animals, and this law that we are going to discuss today, simply it should contribute even more to the safety of the Republic of Croatia and protect it from being a GMO free country. The analysis of the applicable Law on genetically modified organisms found that the current law does not constitute an appropriate regulatory framework for the implementation of European law in the implementation, the area of the introduction of GMOs into the environment, but is left on the GMO market as well as products containing GMOs. The Council of the EU concluded that existing legislation should be amended but with the aim of improving therefore even greater protection through an environmental risk assessment of GMOs with an emphasis on environmental impact assessment in a way that included guidelines on the risk assessment of genetically modified plants in the environment until now which were not binding and which were the basis for carrying out the risk assessment. There are several important issues that are proposed to be resolved by this law and that are being changed. Given the great impact of GMOs and the great application in various fields and activities, we have already been through several discussions today and we have heard that we all agree that it would not be good to ban everyone in general, because we have this science, medicine, pharmacies, we have both the agronomics and the food industry. As far as research is concerned, some are just for the part of the drugs, but research is important in all areas, so it is good that there is both science and medicine and pharmacies and agronomy as well as the food industry. Therefore, this law provides for the development of how to deal with the use and use of GMOs for scientific research purposes, in view of the limitations of the use of GMOs for scientific research in the light of limited use. Then we have this proposal which is resolved by this law, which is to harmonise the provisions relating to the authorisation and obligations of the official national reference laboratories of GMOs by Regulation (EU) 2017/625 in a way that will extend the period of authorisation from two to four years, and that the body of the national administration responsible for health services will be given the possibility to revise the work of those authorised laboratories. Therefore, a review of all these laboratories that investigate the presence of GMOs in products will be carried out. The criteria for the inclusion of closed systems of limited use of GMOs at risk level will be developed. Standards for closed systems of prevention measures and other security measures, handling mode and all that is important for working in closed systems of limited use of GMOs. The risk assessment system will be improved when GMOs are introduced into the environment, which is actually very important, and I have already set out these guidelines at the outset and which we are now going to transpose or propose to apply these regulations to the law. The procedures for the application of the first GMU market application will be developed both in the EU and in the Republic of Croatia. Provisions regarding clinical trials of advanced therapy medicinal products consisting of or containing GMOs will also be laid down so that we have this area regulated. The responsibility of responsible inspection bodies for carrying out official controls or inspections in the area of GMOs will also be further developed. Here is the information that 92 samples of food were controlled in 2019 and no GMOs were found in any of them. However, normally that control should exist, that we want to protect the Republic of Croatia and we want it to be RH GMO free, but there is another thing that Croatia is in the EU. We travel, people come here, there are goods that go beyond any control because we have a common European market and absolute protection certainly don't exist, but if we control, if we determine all of these laboratories that will still be far more professional now, but also according to specific rules from sampling and control, reporting and everything else we can do these tests, I believe that we can remain GMOs free, but that GMOs will always be in certain areas. She would not now enter the scientific argument for and against but we believe in the HNS Club that it is a good law that regulates many things that have not been regulated so far and we will support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149095	Now it's, they're up to individual debates. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our colleagues and colleagues, a topic that is always interesting and usually puts it or-or, so come Mr. Bulj puts on a shirt, show our attitude with a sign of crossed GMO or on the other hand someone should say that this is not bad, means that we should have some benefits from it, and we still have too little knowledge and too little experience on this subject and I agree that Croatia as a paradox country, unfortunately as a paradox country where it is possible that the government's cheap VAT on food, on meat, and that meat is not cheap and that the defacto of this defunding and reduction of VAT is the most useful thing for traders and these tax reforms that in Croatia are working on or for example to support certain activities that are simply not relevant to the modern society or capital of Croatia, so yesterday HDZ in the Assembly of Bandić when it tells journalists that it is important to know that all about the importance of the country, so much about the importance of the fact that in which we can be able of the GMO, Is that why we didn't have an adequate framework for certain GMOs? In the Republic of Croatia, it's still almost gone. So we didn't maximise our agriculture or what we could do, let alone think about some of these things. So, there's a theme about one framework that in the Republic of Croatia is by me still far from us since our agriculture on its knees after years of destruction and after which it hasn't had a certain concept for years. Once land was used in agriculture to collect money, after agricultural use and now, not produced, they take money, not produced, after they are now forced by the mayors of the municipalities to sign contracts with the former Agrokora so that one third of the country can benefit, not Croatian citizens, means where a farmer cannot sign a contract as now can the former Agrokor sign for the use of the state country and in some way grow on that country or cattle or agriculture. So, in a situation like this, we're talking and here we're developing theories whether, how harmful it's going to be, it won't be harmful, lab control, etc. I am for control, I am that we are first of all familiar with what can be useful or harmful to Croatian citizens, and then after that for Croatian agriculture, but first of all I am about to see how to bring our country into some normal situation, how that Croatian agriculture has as much input as possible to Croatian tourism that our exports that we view as tourism defacto do not fill the exports of Germany, Italy, Austria and other countries where they benefit much more from their agricultural products than our citizens do. And these are the challenges ahead of us and these are the topics that should be in the morning and should be occupied by the Croatian public because unfortunately the Republic of Croatia is a country of paradox, until yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic says 45 billion kuna will cost you pension reform, yesterday says anything can. Look out, is that a serious leadership? Is that something that convinces Croatian citizens that we know which way we're going? Is this even the Republic of Croatia that deserves leadership to say that the Republic of Croatia will be here and there in 2030, so we don't know where we'll be tomorrow, we don't know how Prime Minister Plenkovic will set up tomorrow, we don't know if Culej supports Skor or Colinda? You understand how much paradox there is, how much paradox in HDZ itself, and then we're talking about GMOs, here's a colleague from HNS says we need to control the labs, so we're going to see this or that. So, Croatian citizens unfortunately do not see any perspective in this confusing government, they do not see where this is going all together, the topics they impose from day to day have nothing to do with perspective, with citizens, with a better life, etc., so this is one of the topics that will be current only in front of us, perhaps in 5, 10 or 15 years. In the Republic of Croatia, there is no de facto, and on this side I would call on the Croatian government to give a little topic that is on the agenda, which stands for months and is not discussed to support the initiative given by colleagues from HSS, and we are also now going with it, and it is that politicians have to justify their property that it is not going to turn pastures from agricultural land to building land as in the case of Kuščević nothing caused, only because it is caused that HDZ's someone decided to do it, these are topics that are much more interesting than what GMOs are more interesting than whether or not we will, and when we will, and in what way, control and these are the topics that are more poisoning Croatian public and Croatian I would say to the reality and our country, unfortunately, is not as it should be, and will not be, as long as we have in this way, the larger, the larger and the larger part of the H. As it is said in our people, the problems go from top to bottom. It's not a problem in citizens. It's not a problem in a situation that someone is committing, here's as great a sin as this case was for Mr. Ghost to be brought in for it. These are topics that are now dominated by the media, or represent the biggest problem to HDZ. The problem is all that I said earlier, and so when we talk about the GMO law, I can say that this topic in my opinion is the one that should not be shared so much by the Croatian public at the moment or should not cause so much emotion in the Croatian public. More should be caused by emotions how to lift our agriculture in a way that we can produce everything we can in Croatia, try to place ourselves in our tourism, that we do not have to go by myself, I would say, wholesale or large shops, and watch as German yogurt, cheeses and everything else sold, and Croatians have less and less space in Croatia. And when they are to be given land to the state for use, then they are pressed through the Ministry of Agriculture by our chiefs to sign contracts that were already set as guilty in the 1990s, and now they have to set them up again. So, on that side, here's something I wanted to point out. I must admit that in this law I don't see as much a conspiracy as some of my colleagues see, but I see a problem in the Republic of Croatia that with agriculture and with everything we can from it, it doesn't do what it's supposed to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149097	Four replicas. The first replica was requested by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149098	Thank you very much. A colleague of Maras. Everyone has the right to their position, of course, I'm against GMOs, mainly because it's the domination of Monsant that produces seeds, GMO seeds and, of course, pesticides and of course, it affects our agriculture. We import pork that feeds on who knows which soybeans, probably with GMO soybeans, of course we have different attitudes here. Of course, I also gave the Law on the ban on GMOs in the Republic of Croatia except for medical purposes, however, you did not vote. Not even a colleague, Zekanovic said earlier, it is a democratic right and I think this is a very important topic for Croatian agriculture and the development of Croatian agriculture and health. Because at this stage where scientists conflict and where multinational companies have too much influence, we need to make a sober decision that was voted in this House in 98. Croatia without GMOs. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149099	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149100	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. You just said what I said in my debate. And that is that when we import food and import certain things into agriculture into Croatia, we don't even know how these things were grown, or fed outside Croatia and on that side exactly what I told you is the most important thing. How to create conditions for us to load pigs in Croatia, not to import them from other countries, from South America, etc. So, from the Netherlands, even worse, here, it's possible to load a pig cheaper in the Netherlands than in Croatia. How is that possible? It is possible if the government is incompetent, if there is no concept, if there is no concept of how to do business in agriculture, then, unfortunately, anything is possible in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149101	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras. You've brought out a lot of different topics broader than the GMO theme. For example, a colleague of Vlaovic had a very reasoned debate although I disagree with everything he said. I agree with you not to create any paranoia and to say that the law on GMOs is a legal permit for the poisoning of Croatian people and what I would mention here, therefore, we have the right to differing opinions, this debate is professional, but it is also political. I wouldn't compare it to a subject like the antivaccination movement, but it's a little different. Definitely this topic deserves a broad discussion, but I wouldn't be talking about it being a security threat to the population of the Republic of Croatia right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149103	Mr. Maras, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149104	Thank you very much. Mr. Celic, I don't know why you mentioned Mr. Vlaovic and commended his expertise, but you're not Milka Babovic to comment here on the scores from 1 to 10, and here we are now waiting for all his colleagues to say whether this one was for 10 or 9. Or two. That's not your job. Your task is to try to get Croatia out of the paradox as a responsible politician, where you in the Zagreb City Assembly do not wish to condemn the mayor's statement that journalists are making it. Well, isn't that a shame? Well, I'd rather dry my hand than vote against that conclusion. You as a responsible politician who promotes democratic values should protect women, protect that someone sexist in the City of Zagreb Assembly is not paid It's like the task of us in politics [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Those standards, we raise a little bit. [[Intruder: Time, Mr. Cellic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149105	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149106	Article 238 of the demeaning of MPs has been violated, therefore, it is my full right, you are well-readed colleague Vlaović has prepared himself and read this law unlike you who politically impose topics on one side of St. Mark to second. I know you guys have some frustrations, but I'm not here as a psychiatrist, I'm here as a politician and I'm a parliamentary agent, so I can't help you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149107	I'll give you a word of course, but in replicas it's possible, such opinions are possible, I'll give it to Mr. Maras, of course, so he doesn't get angry, I'll give it to you, I know what he'll say, but I'll give it to him, of course, he has the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149108	Thank you very much, 238th is an injured article, thank you very much for noticing. So he's not a coworker or psychiatrist here, but he's certainly not Milka Babovic. So I'd leave that kind of grade to those who look at us. They'll vote or they won't vote. So on that side I'm just here, I'm just appealing to my colleague Cellic to advance our city and our society by not supporting the sexist statements of the mayor. That's what I wanted and [[Thank you very much.]] And I hope he does it next time. [[Thank you, thank you.]] This time he voted that.../incomprehensible/... [[Mr. Maras, time Mr. Maras.]] behavior in public space. [[Intruder: Time Mr. Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149109	I'm not going to give in to any of the Rules of Procedures or anyone else. Let's move on. Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149110	Comrade Maras, you said in your debate that this is a topic of debate or something. For us HSS, I'm gone either, or. We are against the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the Republic of Croatia and that is what most of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia want to keep it that way. The arguments that Croatian agriculture will improve with such organisms do not exist with such seed material because there are a number of attempts made by scientific institutions and agricultural producers to make no higher yields with genetically modified seeds, that there is no reduced use of pesticides and that there is no reduction in production costs or that we import more than 160 tonnes of mercantile soy from Argentina into Croatia. Price of mercantile soy, how much is in Croatia and how much is this import, there are the same prices, and our position from HSS is that we can protect domestic agriculture and production only with domestic sciences and clean the ground. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149111	Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vlaovic. I respect your position and do not want to be overly polymised with it, but I will agree, that I want clean production, I want it to be as high as possible, the bigger in the Republic, and for that we have to fight, as we have to fight to keep our country without GMOs and without corruption. So it's about the same level, unfortunately for ours, unfortunately ours, while corruption and HDZ are being removed, it's going to be a long, long time, but that doesn't mean that we don't have to fight for it, and here I'd like to congratulate you that in your debate, your expertise has been recognized by a colleague, I believe that you will sleep peacefully today and that it will be a big, big confirmation of what you discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149113	It's only good that when it's replicated to someone, it's replicated to that person, not to someone else from before. Mrs Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149114	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you've been talking about everything but GMOs, so the whole situation in the country, etc. and find the successes of this government, and tourism accounts for 20% of the total GDP. What I'd like to say is that we all forget that the first gene that was created from GMOs is 1973. Herbert Boyer and 16 cultures have been treated so far and the human species deals with crossing plants, so it doesn't matter we're GMOs, but this legislation and this government wants to make even better control of everything that's going on, but mutating and crossing plants exists a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149115	Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149116	I must admit that since my colleague Celic recognized that this is not exactly my theme of GMOs, and that you probably dominate and have studied this topic for a long time and you have probably the success of certain scientific in this area, I find it difficult to have a controversy with you here, especially when you say and compare the crossing of plants with genetic modification. So that's, I don't know if you're aware that what you said to each other doesn't have much to do with it. So you have to be aware when you're saying something to make sure that you're not going back to the area where your cellmate is going to criticize us. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149117	Quiet, quiet, quiet. Let's move on. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149118	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the question arises at the outset why there are genetically modified food products, so on and so forth in all areas of human life. It is that some countries, as well as scientists, some world leaders, believe that the number of people on earth is increasing at such a pace that they simply won't be able to feed in an existing way with existing land treatment, agricultural production, climate change, the emergence of new diseases etc., etc. I understand certain countries and peoples who are having problems with climate change right now, and they're obviously going to reach out to these GMOs for some things about adapting the resilience of cereals and other products. However, another opinion exists that the earth does not need genetically modified food at all because the planet is large enough to have an even greater number of inhabitants can feed, but therefore it needs another policy, another approach. Let us take the example of Israel, for example. there when you look at the ambience, what is the land of the desert, the deserts, they got the plain from the desert, the green desert. So one super-organized state with irrigation technology and everything else they're simply, not that they're enough, but that they're exporting to other countries of the world. Now the question arises if other countries, for example, are also deserts, semi-region have such technology, sources of funding obviously so that they can mostly feed themselves, however, such obviously some food production factors do not have. What I want to say in front of the party Change Croatia is that we, our position is next, Croatia is a small country with a large area of arable land we can at least one more, two Croatia feed it we all know that and birds on the branch know it. But the question arises why has Croatia not already been declared a GMO free country and at the entrance at all border crossings that do not have large tables, panels when tourists come and visit Croatia to immediately know it is an oasis, a country of healthy food in the EU. This must, Croatia must be an oasis or a country of healthy food in Europe. We don't need a GMO product at all. Here they are said there are, there are none, we can trust one and the other like that yet, but the arrival of certain seeds primarily soy from Argentina, and we know that Argentina was the first test rabbit of large multinational companies in the area of GMO production, especially with regard to soy and there they did their job. Why can't we trust this government and these people? Well, because both they and previous governments have repeatedly deceived citizens and that degree of trust in the laws that have been passed is very low or none. Let us remember over the past months and years how many thousands of tons of ancient flesh, the old man from who knows which part of the world is imported and withdrawn, forbidden. Let us remember how it is organized, let us ask ourselves how quality protection and the regularity of food or food in Croatia is organised. It's no longer on the level it was before. Before that at the border, there were mobile labs in specialized vehicles, those vehicles were gone. Now the traffickers, the import lobby that came into place so that they could control certain segments of control itself, state control. That's what we citizens care about and care about. So in this sense we from the party Change Croatia we advocate for seed banks in Croatia, the domestic seed of all cultures that have been in these premises since the weekends as we know it, our great-grandfathers, the great-grandmothers they used. There are few of us, and as such specialize in agricultural production for the production of healthy food, whose price rises every year, I repeat, whose price rises every year. But since we know that agricultural policy in Croatia has not existed in the past ten years, about 34 billion euros have been invested in incentives, excuse about 34 billion kuna in various subsidies, incentives, and Croatia has never produced less food than here today. We read simply incredible data about the alarming decline in the production of milk, the number of cattle, pigs, everything else, and it all says together whatever area we open up to discuss that this country is not working. Why? Because the political elites that led and ran Croatia and they don't want to solve this problem, they let stakeholders do what anyone wants and make this a market and hunting ground for multinational companies and trade chains. It's said we have, you say we already have the traceability of food, you want to go together and I tell you to buy in this place and eat for a month and see what it would look like. In that sense, I would like to say that GMO seeds, primarily seeds, are money and energy. These are the world's most powerful three geo-political instruments, or the world's largest forces. In each of these segments, what I have said to finance, money, energy, GMO food is this power and the world's leading forces on it want and the cities, not to want, but to build their position in the world of hegemon or milder said leaders. That is why we advocate control, traceability, but it cannot be done by people who are now working, who have been compromised because this system and this government and the previous political parties that ruled Croatia have all been compromised. So why is one number of people in Croatia afraid of vaccinations and not wanting to vaccinate children? Well, because he doesn't trust an import vaccine, you know, they don't trust it. Why? 'Cause it might have come in who knows what channels. That is why we advocate to restart the Immunological Institute which can return to life only by selling its properties, which is the land on the most attractive part of Zagreb, but must be moved outside Zagreb because they are more communal cheaper. We know how to solve it, and let's say these chips, the chips, they only say once every month twice that they're supposed to deceive the citizens and they'll never do anything about it. And to finish here, we need to be terribly sensitive to GMO products at all, they're the most present in the processing, we're not sure what's being imported, and neither what's being said is ordinary, and especially the processing, and until new people come along who will be more honest who will not be part of the interest groups and members, there will be no trust in what you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149119	Thank you. The first replica has a Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149120	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Professor Lovrinović, I agree that our agriculture should be directed towards organic production and the development of family agricultural economies, but what is now in force, and the adoption of a new law remains the fact that GM seeds have the status of legally prohibited drugs in Croatia. That's what we need to know. The GM seed seed is illegal. On the other hand, according to the allegations of agricultural people, Croatia is a very inappropriate country for the cultivation of GM crops and is not attractive for biotechnology companies either, and we need to lower the ball a little and reduce these discussions on the GMO issue yes or no, GMOs exist, but GM seeds are not available in Croatia, sowing GM seeds is illegal, point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149121	Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149122	Well, dear colleague Cellic, you know what the problem is, you're part of the ruling coalition. Right? You're a highly educated man doctor, so we all here in Croatia know, you know how many laws there are to protect this one, and we've never been more insecure, half. Therefore, this is the problem, the problem in those who do not comply with the laws, who do not safeguard national security, and the issue of healthy food and GMOs is the first-class issue of national security in Croatia. And people can't trust laws, and even be good, if the people who are in executive power are compromised, corrupt, clientelets, so who will believe in such protection, such a state, such institutions. That's why people move out, that's why there's legal uncertainty, if it were all the right thing to do, believe me if you didn't see me in the assembly, I'd be doing something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149123	Mr. Kirin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149124	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Lovrinovic, in the created information chaos, citizens lose orientation and the ability to distinguish facts from misinformation. Genetically modified food has been causing major controversy since day one. Does it cause disease, destroy the environment, yes or no? You asked why the GMOs started to produce, but you didn't say why. Is this specifically agronomic properties that should have destroyed herbicides and improved the resistance of plants to pests, improved their properties, and in the third generation it is discussed to develop greater tolerance to dry and better absorption of nitrogen and phosphorus. [[Intruder: Time.]] Tell me if it's for you more, well, harmful GMO organisms or those treated with herbicides, which causes greater damage? [[Doctor, let's finish the sentence.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149125	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149126	Dear colleague Kirin, here I have failed to meet you these days, first I would like to congratulate you from my heart on the supreme success that you achieved the other day with your team, operating, saving a man's hand, your hand from your neighborhood. Indeed, I say it honestly, and whoever does it and whatever positive, we all need to admire each other. If you listened to me carefully, I initially said that there are countries where certain GMO seeds or products will fit for a while to try to eat and prevent the death and hunger of a part of their inhabitants. So, that's what I said. However, I am not interested in other regions, other countries, spoken to about Croatia, Croatia should not, should not, our climate, our belt in which we are located shows that we should simply be fierce against it and encourage the production of healthy food. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149127	Thank you. Mr. Križanić, final replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lovrinović you asked why we have not already declared Croatia a GMO free country. You and I know that we can't do it all the way up until we're a member of the EU, but we also know that all units of regional self-government, so all of our counties asked for GMO status free, when we talk about seed and cultivation, and nobody can and will not ban us as long as we want it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149129	Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149130	Well, I don't know what the problem is, why you haven't already set large tables finely decorated where GMOs are written free Croatia and so on, so obviously you're not even sure yourself, and if someone says we can't do it for the EU, so it speaks of the nature of a servant's relationship with MPs in this parliament who have not chosen other peoples but have been elected by Croatian citizens and they expect that we are primarily fighting for their good, their health, their safety, their future. In that sense, we from Change Croatia, we will take a hard stand and fight, actually push against, for healthy food, against modified food, and especially control and punishment, all of them, and believe that there are quite a number and they, in my opinion, took control of food distribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149131	Thank you. And now we continue the individual debate. Mr. Križanić is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, right in my debate on behalf of the club I was talking about the metrics, and now allow me a little bit of my observation regarding this law and about what I was just saying. It is therefore important to stress that as a Member State of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has taken over certain rights and obligations that we need to respect if we want to be responsible and full member of the EU and avoid infringements of EU rights while protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia in addition to GMOs. We want to remind here exactly what I said earlier that all our units of regional self-government have declared GMO free, free from GMOs and that direction confirms the Republic of Croatia in which I think of cultivation. So we are undoubtedly against the cultivation of GMOs throughout the Republic of Croatia and I want it to be clear. Independently, the adoption of this law raises a huge public interest, but also some reasonable doubts as to the possibility of preventing the impact of globalisation, and in particular the single European market on the preservation of state sovereignty as regards the introduction of GMOs in the form of seeds and the prohibition of cultivation. We need to be energetic and resolute here, and so far, with all the debates we've had so far, because the very thought of any field of experimentation, even in controlled conditions and in small quantities, could be caused by the consequences of such GMOs getting out of control. Croatia is a small country and therefore, as regards any entry or minimum GMO seed and intake of GMO seeds and for experiments and in the strictest conditions personally against. Therefore, take all measures to protect against the sowing of GMO seeds which measure the strict punishment of the offender. On the other hand, in line with the above, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the single European market. It has therefore taken over the rights and obligations so that it is impossible to prohibit the import of meat from GMO-fed animals and I have talked about it so far and I repeat it a hundred times. There are no imports, there are no imports, but there is an EU entry. Therefore, it is not correct and I see that there is a colleague from the HSS, they advocate to prohibit the use of bovine food that has GMOs. It's impossible, it's not correct and it's not good. It is not correct to ban imports from us if we know that a ship that docks at the port of Copper, I repeat that to everyone, and I will repeat it 500 more times. It comes with a GMO strain, stored all over the environment of the Republic of Croatia, that same food, so that meat from animals fed with that feed comes to the Republic of Croatia, is it not in that case that we are hypocritical? Therefore, it is extremely important to encourage, by choice of other EU members, and I agree with my colleagues from HSS, to encourage all possible ways of GMO free production, to further make clear the mandatory labelling of food declarations, that is, what is important, to prescribe food products, all which contain GMOs or which are GMOs free. In that case, there will be consumer choices and there will be no confusion. Once again, in the end, firmly, very tightly not bred GMOs, or even for experiments and the strictest control in laboratory conditions, my personal position. Animal food, yes, with mandatory declarations and now, it was in the first one, there weren't so many MPs there that once again great that, what is the situation right now. So, from 2007 to 2019, the Ministry of Health, the health inspectors were conducting surveillance. So far, 185 food samples have been carried out, 6 of them have found the presence of GMOs in a small amount, so 0.1% of the mass share, which means technological contamination. Furthermore, in the first 3 months of 2019, 82 samples were made by the health ministry's sanitary inspection, on soy-based products, meat products, food supplements, wheat products, conditioning products. All the samples were negative. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture conducted the monitoring of GMOs in seed and green mass in 2018. Agricultural inspectors sampled about 10 legal persons, 30 samples, on seed of agricultural plants. All the samples were negative for GMOs. Agricultural inspectors carried out official controls on corn, soybeans and rapes at plant production level in 50 subjects, taking 50 samples. None of them found GMOs. And last and foremost to say, but to know what we're talking about. Therefore, the EU Commission has authorised the placing on the EU market since 9.7.2019, namely the Republic of Croatia, 69 GMOs of plant cultures intended for use as food for animals. 30 GMO corn, 20 GMO soybeans, 13 cotton, 5 oily tails and 1 sugar tail. It's like that and it's a fact and we can run from it or not. These products, which are approved on the EU market, are also authorised in Croatia as livestock. Once again, against the seed itself very tightly do not grow but I am for the animal food to be accompanied by a mandatory declaration and the labelling of licences for livestock food, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149133	Thank you very much. But you're not finished yet because you have a line of lines, and the first line has Mr. Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149134	Thank you, Vice President. Coli Križanić, this is certainly one of the topics that needs to be discussed without sensationalism, without spreading some mass hysteria as it was known to be in this High House and even wider and actually rightly EU directives enable us to exempt ourselves from GMOs, from cultivation of GMOs and to actually be a GMO free country and on the basis of which, if I am not mistaken, Croatia has requested an exemption from GMOs in all its territory. What I think should be repeated even without entering the fields is such cultivation harmful or is it not that in the field of the Republic of Croatia there is no cultivation of GMOs but in the end there is one question for you as a Dr. veterinary science and as a man of profession, can we actually protect and can we actually make our special livestock production competitive without using GMOs in animal nutrition and especially genetically modified soybeans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149135	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149136	I thank my colleague. So, we just passed the law, we have a further possibility of our government asking us to become a GMO free country as far as farming is concerned, that's the answer to your first question, that's what we made possible by the past law. As far as breeding animals are concerned, if possible, it is possible. Is it possible for us to be back in 100 years? And that's possible. Someone here was telling me they were going to sell me a lucerca baby that was organically grown. There's no such lutice delicacy, but it's possible to grow it, but if no one sprays it, it'll turn into weeds. Therefore, we can say whatever we want, we need to be clear and loud. We can produce in Croatia without GMOs, but we can't do that. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149137	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149138	Thank you. Dear colleague Križanić, how do you comment that there has been a trial with Pioneer's company for the past 12 years for the entry and that is. The sale of GMO corn seed that was sown and destroyed? You remember that affair. How do you comment that our farmers must bring in confirmation and declaration that the soybeans that soybean soybeans soybeans are not GMOs and that when they surrender to silos through the causes find GMOs in this? It means someone's secretly pushing seed material into that whole story. And what you're saying about the imports of GMO soybeans from Brazil, so we sold our Croatian soybeans to Serbia last year, and we imported soybeans from Brazil, from Argentina. So I think it would be better if we fed the cattle with soy juice produced in Croatia and sold at the same price as the one imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149139	Answer, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149140	Thank you, Mr. Lenart, for your comment. As for the introduction of GMO seeds into the Republic of Croatia, anything is theoretically possible, and drugs can be introduced, but we are here to make sure that, as far as we know for that case, we know that it's supposed to be, that the verdict is and that there are drastic penalties here in this case, but that we have to prevent it, we have to, we are in order to prevent it from doing so. When you talk about importing soy and feeding our cattle with soy from Argentina or Brazil, if it is at the same price, it is certain that no one is normal for it but the fact that the soybeans from Brazil are imported, that they agree to the port of Copper and that they feed on it throughout the environment and we eat meat from these animals, that's the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149141	I'd ask all of you who have bilateral conversations to do outside so we can continue with the work, you hear me? Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149142	Thank you very much. We see that the vote is about to take place, so it's a bit of a dump. Col. Križanić, the fact is that companies and corporations like Monsanto mentioned, who want to control seeds and produce seeds as well as pesticides that are dangerous to human lives, which are treated and that is the World Health Organization and warned, we simply have to determine ourselves, are we for organic production or are we for GMOs? If in 1998 this Parliament passed a law that Croatia would be without GMOs and now under the influence of naturally multinational companies that have a great influence in lobbying we agreed to have currently in the Republic of GMOs products, we have over 400 products on shelves and which is mostly controlled by Monsant.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149143	Thank you, Mr. Bull, you've made yourself clear, thank you. But you were clear, he heard Mr. Križanić, please give me a minute, please stop for a moment. [[Intruder Bull: Calm them down a little, please, not a man heard.]] Please be quieter so that you are those who have to replicate some public hearing, yes, perhaps someone is interested in these replicas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149144	I thank my colleague Bulj for your question. As far as Monsanto seeds are concerned, you know that one single corn approved in the EU has not been approved by Croatia and is not imported into Croatia and no seed or breeding is allowed in Croatia, and that is what we are all for. As for your question whether I am for the production of GMO seeds, I told you that I am not, but for sustainable production, for sustainable and ecological production for general conditions throughout the Republic of Croatia, it is certainly not possible to have only organic production. And as far as Monsant is concerned, I'm telling you once again, that one single corn approved in the EU is not in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149145	Now it's Mr. Cellic's turn, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bulj, here's your article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask you. This Regulation shall enter [[/Intruder: Article? Article?]] I haven't heard anything from Mr. Križanić from those who come on Fridays to vote, so I'd ask those who come to raise the hand that they've come now, get a list to raise, I don't know them because otherwise I'd name them. [[236? Make it 236.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I haven't heard the answer to this noise of voting machinery here in parliament. I'd like to ask you... I heard. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149147	Thank you very much. I can tell you you're right. Mr. Križanić, you can sum up what you said because Mr. Bulj hasn't heard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149148	Thank you. Now I'm really asking my colleagues to answer Bulju to hear me out. So when we talk about GMOs, Monsanto corn seed approved in the EU, the only seed we in the Republic of Croatia have not approved it and it is banned and will not be sown and we are GMO seeds. Speaking of seed, do I have to sow only organic production,... That I'm not only sowing organic production, crops, but I've answered that for sustainable production, it means that we sow whatever we can, and feed the nation, not just ecological. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149149	All right, thanks. Mr. Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149150	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Križanić, I am interested in your opinion on glyphosate, namely in America that he is cancerous, known as cidocor in Croatia, to cause No-Hodgkin's lymphoma, the EU Commission has indicated a 2022 ban, how do you see modern agriculture without this herbicide?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149151	Mr. Križanić, you can answer now, please. [[Well, we've already been through this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149152	Thank you very much. Excuse me. It's hard for me to say, I can only tell you my personal opinion. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] If any substrate used in agricultural production is proven carcinogenic, I am in favour of finding an alternative, it can always be found and such preparations are thrown out of production.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149153	Mr. Sabolek, come in. Sabolek, ma'am. Sabolek, you can't hear. ... The representative doesn't hear when she... [[Intruder: Yes, you can't hear.]] Come on, please. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149154	Dear counterpart Križanić, the marking on the declarations actually gives the consumers a choice, but of course that's where the producers of GMO products would draw a thicker end, so that's not going to happen. Such products are very rarely marked, thus placing the organic clean product in a more unfavourable position. I will tell you that the Living Wall has already pointed out countless times that GMO products must be marked with a big sticker, citizens have the right to know what they consume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149155	Thank you very much for your patience. Here you go, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149156	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with you, I haven't heard all of what you've been saying until the end, but if we're talking about saying that GMO products should be marked with a five-inch big letter, we absolutely agree on that, if we're talking about it because I haven't really understood your question, I didn't understand you, and the declaration has been something we've been talking about in this House for five years. Okay, let's give a choice to our customer who comes to the shelf, and if someone wants to buy a GMO product, let's buy it, but they need to know that it's a GMO product that makes it cheaper and purer product, so let's make it cost more of this organic product and that's a choice on our consumer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149157	Now it's the last replica, there is, the last line has Mr. Kirin, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149158	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Your Honor, Kissinger said that whoever controls oil controls the state. If you control the food, you control the people. GMOs certainly increase agriculture production. Do you believe in the harmfulness of GMOs and whether you accept that exclusion as some claim because the crossing exists since Mendel as one simple and first form of genetic engineering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149159	Mr. Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149160	... question. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] When, if you ask me if I, as far as I think about the harmfulness of GMOs, I know that nowhere has been scientifically proven to be GMOs. I also know that it's very difficult, I dare say impossible at the level of the world's population to ban at this stage, in the 21st century, the ban on GMO production. You know very well how it is produced in Brazil, how it is produced in the Netherlands, but that does not mean that we in small Croatia can not do everything possible to ban cultivation. We don't need to grow it in the Republic of Croatia, we have the right to ban it and we can. And that's what I'm for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149161	And now, I'd like to ask Mr. Mira Bulj to vote with his baryton over this auditorium, which is otherwise how loud. You can speak with a high tone all you want, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149162	Well, I'm glad there are colleagues here that I literally don't know. They come on Fridays, I don't even know the reasons why they didn't vote at 12 o'clock, probably missing the quorum, i.e. The majority of votes are missing, or they haven't gotten along yet. However, here we are talking about the bill, about GMOs, and it is our obligation, and so was my obligation, and I felt the need to, if there is anything significant in the Republic as a resource, it is agricultural land, it is water, it is air, and therefore we have to protect it. Genetically modified GMOs in the Republic of Croatia are already on shelves, we have about 400 products, so multinational companies, I repeat again, as Monsanto exclusively pushes his products, and even his outside of this and his herbicides which means pesticides, they are interested and the seeds to take over, the Republic of Croatia has no seed bank, it will simply become dependent on this multinational company and simply a glisophate that is in, simply herbicide which means already in '74. He let go through various products simply, that easier the people understand, it is, it is in the cidocor below, in the cidocor, who knows what it is when the weeds are weeded and we see that we have great consequences, even in America people suffer from tumors that have been protected and received disputes from Monsant, and the great surfaces of the world are used by this Monsant product and of course we have problems, especially with the problems of soy ham, corn that are treated and surface, and we know that the RH has become a huge importer, mainly here's an example of a pig, we have brands today, Dalmatian prosciutto or top prosciutto or dregic ham we have these prosciuttos, but there are no pigs. We import the very pigs that are fed exclusively with the soybean and which is imported into the Republic of Croatia 100% is allowed to be allowed, you can wave your head, but we simply see what our agriculture has been brought to, that it was targeted to make our farm, 700 000 hectares of land under the weeds, targeted, targeted from 1.1. will be able to sell agricultural land, when I was giving an amendment to my colleagues that no agricultural land is sold to foreign legal and physical persons, you did not agree, you are now under pressure, you are looking for a delay or moratorium. However, when we talk about GMO product, if the Assembly is Croatian in '98. I have passed a law banning GMOs in the area of the Republic of Croatia and producing clean organic products, I see no reason why we have even changed those laws. We have tried to be a GMO free state, a state where all the counties in this country of the Republic of Croatia that has agricultural land as a key resource, we have not protected it if the simple influence of multinational companies, such as Monsanto is huge to be dominant, mainly in the matter of seeds. We must also have a seed bank and preserve traditional production today in the markets, I mentioned in the name of the club, in the markets, in the Sinj example of Peškarija, so across the market, very little you see grandmothers who sell their domestic products, are more imported, examples of tomatoes or tomatoes and the fact that I had no choice but to give the Law on the ban on GMOs except for medical purposes in the procedure, I gave amendments, 90 MPs did not support this proposal, but the only thing we have is the current agricultural land that will obviously go into foreign hands for small money, into the mixed hands that will plant Monsanto's products. I see the anxiety here, so you won't listen to me, and it's a very important topic for Croatian agriculture, for Slavonia, maybe it's a bigger problem for you that there are no bandic chips, no Bandics, and you don't have a majority, and now you're collecting and making noises. I don't want to be chaired here, I want to talk here about a very important topic, and that's the issue of the GMO law, the theme of GMOs, so it would be fairer and more correct if you asked for a break, than if we were going to get out of line right now. My colleagues and colleagues...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149163	You're right, you can go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149164	Fellow Members and colleagues, the Republic of Croatia should be organic agricultural products, should be an oasis and must not be an interesting area from the GMOs of the seed and herbicide producers. pesticides like Monsanto. At this point, these lobbyists are too strong. The glysopha used by Monsanto has already banned many members, e.g. Austria, it has already banned, but still treats land still, so here's research, we see that science now conflicts with each other, science conflicts, one is against, one is against, but the fact that our cup is experimental rabbits, is if something dangerous is treated with compounds, we agree that our children are experimental rabbits.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149165	Excuse me, Mr. Bull. Have a little respect for the speaking representative, please have a little respect for the speaking representative, that's your colleague, my colleague and your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149166	And a very important topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149167	No matter what the subject, my colleague speaks, and you and we have to listen, those who don't want to listen let them go outside for coffee, so let them come back, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149168	I know what the problem is, I'll tell you, there's no sign of the Solidarity Party's work...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149169	Please, Mr. Bull, continue the topic, and then finally say what you want, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149170	Well, I can do with the subject, I'd like Milan Bandic, since he had, to see that he's also a presidential candidate, to see that we have a lot of Milan Bandic, so that they'd like to hear these parliamentary representatives, to hear this topic, I'm sorry they're not here, I'm sorry it's panic... [[- Sir...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149171	...you can give after the breach of the Rules of Procedure the same, but it's not the subject, the topic is what you said before, so GMO, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149172	Here's one more time to say colleagues and colleagues, I've instructed today we can decide, we can always decide whether we're for GMOs or we're for organic agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. The interesting lobbys are, I repeat, once again for GMOs are mainly for Monsanto and multinational companies that have too much interest in selling us pesticides, herbicides that are very dangerous. Croatia still has a lot of raw land, 700 thousand hectares, that's their interest. Their interest is to move out, that's what you did. The second was not to ban agricultural land from foreigners while the Hungarians did it. And the third is to take over this land and to make healthy organic food for themselves, and to give us from their countries that have been polluted by these herbicides to export it to us here and to buy it from us. Once again, we have destroyed agricultural production and livestock. We have Dalmatian prosciutto, Slavonic tower, but from import pigs fed by GMO seeds, and our agricultural land is abandoned. Not by chance, it is not by chance that the Sinjsko polje is abandoned, that Slavonia is abandoned, that the Dalmatian Zagora and Slavonia and Gorski Kotar and that land that is clean is 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land. Once again, I would say that for the second time I have referred my law on the ban on GMOs, it is my obligation as a parliamentary representative, as well as the Most Club to keep our children from trying rabbits from permanent multinational companies, stakeholders, in favour of organic production. This Parliament is repeating it in '98. I have passed a law that Croatia is without GMOs, I see no reason for us to have GMOs. But not GMOs and cross-breeding engineering, but GMOs controlled by Monsanto and similar seed-controlled companies. We don't have an absolute bank of seeds that our old ones planted or we respect. That's why we're at this point in agriculture at the bottom. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10.8% less milk produced in the Republic of Croatia, while increasing imports of dairy products 16.8% is less produced than OPG milk, each year we import pork to billions. So right now in the Republic of Hungary everything is about moving our population out of the area where agricultural land is, selling to foreigners land what is not allowed in Hungary and that a company like Monsanto is an American company that dominates seeds and herbicides and pesticides to be the one that will control all of us, whether without seeds, without a seed bank, has no state. So we will be controlled by those from whom we will seek seed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149173	Thank you, time. Before I do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, replicas and all that happened, the vote will be at 13 o'clock, and on all other issues, please contact the Bureau of Parliament. Mr. Maras gave his first breach to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149174	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, you're in violation of Article 251. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which says that the majority of MPs are sufficient to make a decision at the Parliament's session. It is visible to all of us in the assembly that most MPs are present and I ask you to approach the vote as you have announced, that there will be a vote at 12 o'clock. Most of them here, why can't they vote? Because Milan Bandic is blackmailing Andrej Plenkovic. So what did you bring the state to? Gentlemen, most of you are being held by a defendant with a dozen and more criminal charges. You don't let the Parliament work... [[You've made yourself clear.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149175	Come on, please, you've made yourself clear. You were clear, I did not inform that there would be a vote at 12 o'clock but at 13 o'clock if you heard correctly. Here you go, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149176	Your Honor, Vice President. Not only is Article 251 injured, but Article 228(2) means the start of each working session of the President of the Parliament shall be announced on which points of the agenda will be voted, but also when the vote will be held. We, as parliamentary deputies, were announced at 12 o'clock and it is clear that you have found yourself in an awkward situation where your coalition partner and Prime Minister Plenkovic are being blackmailed by the ruling majority. He refused to show up with his chips here in the Croatian Parliament and now we don't even know what's going to happen And what's the schedule... [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149177	But it's time. Okay, as I told you, the vote will be at 1:00. I am the messenger of such news, and as it is said, the messenger is not guilty of the news he brings. Mrs. Voter and you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149178	I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it seems to me Mr. Vice President that you intend to continue to violate Article 251. The Rules of Procedure and do not provide for a vote announced in 12 hours, despite the fact that the conditions for the same were created, that most MPs and deputies were present in the assembly. It is a sad fact that the work of this Parliament depends on the Club of Representatives Milan Bandic, and it is unfortunate that what they have stated is that Milan Bandic is not only blackmailing the ruling majority but also the whole of Croatia and we are all hostages of Milan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149179	Time. Mr. Lovrinović, no, not later. ...infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149180	So please bring in, there's nothing to be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149181	Mr. Lavrovinović, before Mr. Bulj because he has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it is you, after which you... You raised your hand only, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Bully first picked up a staff injury to the Rules of Procedure, and I thought you were looking for... I thought you were looking for a break. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149182	Thank you very much. He was injured by the Rules of Procedure 228 because for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, most of them destroy the quorum. This has not happened, the opposition is ready to vote, here Mr. Miljan Brkic is here, Mr. Milosevic and those who have now appeared, I don't know their names for the first time, for the first time, that most of them are breaking down the quorum because Milan Bandic is holding them as he says in the leather cart "They are all dancing and no one is playing." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149183	Thank you. In this House, most of them destroyed governments, let alone the quorum. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149184	Dear Mr. Vice President, I protest in front of the party to change Croatia for the Rules of Procedure, infringement, and you see the situation we've been put in here. You tell us now at 13 o'clock come and all the opposition is here, they ran away, this trade coalition, maybe they went to Bandic to hurry it up, bring the order in here, please. We can't be here at 1:00 at 2:00, this isn't working, save your cheek in this House, let's call extraordinary elections, this is unsustainable, this is a trading calculation, it just can't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149185	Well, you have the right word for your opinion, but our working hours last.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149186	I beg your pardon, I call upon the opposition to leave Parliament for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149187	Okay, you have the right to do that, but our working hours continue at 13 and at 14 and at 15. What is that, a Roman greeting? What's that? No, I don't know what that is. ... No, but what is it? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Is it a break? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But get up, please, go ahead. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149188	Mr. Vice President, thank you for giving me your word, I suggest you set a break until 13 o'clock for two reasons. [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149189	No, we have two more, I promised your party president we'd have more,... Is it true I promised you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149190	The first reason, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149191	He wouldn't want it to be a dispute between you and the president of the party. I promised your party president we'd finish it and then we'll go to the vote, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149192	Mr. Vice President, you and this longtime...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149193	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, no, it's not appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149194	With your long experience, it's clear that no normal debate will be held...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149195	The replica had a gentleman, no, I don't respect No. No. [[/Intruder Bauk: You don't respect?]] Mr. Maras had a replica. [[Bauk's intruding: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149196	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Please interrupt the session because I want to debate in front of a lot of assembly, when my colleagues return at 1:00, they vote to hear what I'm about to say to my colleague Bulju. So this is irregular... you don't, you don't have... What are you doing, I beg you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149197	Mr. Lenart asked for a break, probably, right? Mr. Lenart, here you go. [[Intruder Maras: No, no, no, just a little.]] You don't have a replica, did you say you don't have a replica? [[Intruder Maras: Mr Furio.]] No, you don't have a replica, you can't speak. [[Intruder Maras: But let us work.]] Mr. Lenart, here you go. [[So come on, so...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149198	I thank the esteemed Vice President, here I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats because obviously these GMOs in the form of Bandic's chips poisoned the situation in the Croatian Parliament and we need a break, here's a nice thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149199	What was that, I'm sorry, you have to explain what it was. No, this hand-lifting thing, what was that? [[Intruding Glasovic: I would ask for a break too, only a break would ask for]] Here you go. [[Intruding Glasnović: So he would ask for a break for 10 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149200	Please, thank you. I'm just asking for a break for 10 minutes to save us from this sodoagronoma from the HSS, the local heads that can't... to plant and speed up this vote, just that, this is terror, unprecedented terror. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149201	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr. Bernardich.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149202	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a 10-minute break for the simple reason that in a series of institutions in Croatia that are collapsing just now, the Croatian Parliament has become another. So, in the ruling coalition, there is obviously no agreement on anything, so the latest case shows in fact that in the ruling coalition there is one complete dissension and that the ruling coalition cannot agree on a term of holding a vote. What kind of coalition is that? A gang against the HNS. Bandic versus HDZ. HSLS v. SDSS. Part of HDZ versus Milorad Pupovac. HDZ versus HDZ. So this is about exclusive interest, a strong desire just to stay in power...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149203	Mr. Bernardic, I have to interrupt you and now I'm going to tell you why.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149204	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I have the right to explain a two-minute recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149205	I'm taking a break, now I'm gonna tell you why. I'm taking a 10-minute break just because of Mr. Lenart's request to take a break on the agenda, you didn't ask for a break... And that's against the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, up to 12 hours and 40 minutes we have a break,... Not in the agenda, not in the agenda, I'm sorry. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Ten minutes off, Mr. Lenart. ... [[Intruder Bernardić: Dear Vice President of the Parliament...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149206	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, now it is up to the debate of the esteemed colleague Stevo Culej, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149207	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, all present, as we begin this topic, I haven't prepared much, but I've dropped one idea, Ned Lud. In England in the 19th century, there was a man named Ned Lud at the time of industrialization. This same Ned Lud was founded by the ludicrous movement of Ludite with whom he was destroying machines that replaced a number of workers at the time, so Ned Lud, along with his co-workers, accused those same machines of being the ones who got fired, so they destroyed those machines until they figured out what the problem was. I see here, there are many who would like to stop the wheel of history, and which goes unwittingly forward, it goes forward, grinds, it grinds and it will reach its goal to our benefit or to our damage, it will determine the future. Today is a time of globalisation, a time when a variety of unifications are supported, a variety of crossings, a variety of mixings, but that's not a problem, there's no need for what might be a consequence, although we know what might be when we mix well in a certain proportion where that ratio will lead us away, whether to good or evil. He says against GMOs, who's against GMOs, and why is someone against GMOs? Against GMOs and against the progress of history wheels, it's mostly those who don't have their opinions on anything, but basically follow up on some pulsism to pick up certain political points, and they don't care about the organic production they don't know anything about, because they've never produced anything in their life, but they might have seen on the salary of some bitch from Zagorje who brought some vulgar humpes, so they said that this one, nothing, is valid to you, look at the hump and then he went and bought that beautiful glass, transparent, smooth, beautiful, beautiful, big, and bought that pickle on the beach, and that little humper wouldn't pick it up. And so we have daily examples of how some people understand what GMOs are and what's fighting GMOs. What does genetically modified seed even mean? So it's not the seed problem, it's not the GMO problem, it's the way it's going to be applied and in whatever form and to what extent, it's the only problem. They say abandoned meadows, pastures and land in Slavonia. In Slavonia, there is not one pedal of a free country that someone could buy that is free, and he sold it, and if it appears at that time, the same is already sold and a competition is being held for him who gives more and that price often goes to heaven. So, as far as free land is concerned, there's no desertion, there's no, all the land's been processed, there's no pedal that can't be seen from the Arkod system that's all worked out, maybe there's a few canals and shears inaccessible, so it's not processed. Who handles this land, and in what way? The same country is being processed by Croatian peasants. In what way? If they were to process it the way their old man did, if they were to sow seeds, they wouldn't have a income of 5, 10 meters per hectare, they certainly wouldn't have. If they did not take seeds licensed from the houses produced by that seed, they would certainly not have 40 m, 50 m and more per hectare, give grain, give corn, stay on those 4-5 m. If they did not put that seed on, if they did not spray the herbicides needed to stop all those weeds, which would turn those crops. If that famous plant was impossible to eradicate, a Partizan, and we know as ambrosia, if we didn't rip and spray every year, imagine how much it would multiply, as enemies of the Republic, it would multiply so much. If we hadn't worked the country in this modern, advanced way, we'd be in the trap of every producer in the whole world. She doesn't care about school either, the Croatian peasant is written enough and prescribed, but those laws we bring here in HS are often to the detriment of these same peasants. In America, there's a people who say to themselves that they're Amish, they belong to God and themselves, these same Amish have their own little communities where they often don't have any electricity, they don't have any technological progress, but they're one of the largest milk producers. How do they produce milk? So they have farms 55 + 10, 55 dairy cows + 10 replacement cows that are designed to replace those worn out, worn out to further processing or slaughtering and consumption. These same farms how they work? So every farm you look at from the satellite, it's got three big silos, each silo costs $50,000. And he with $150,000 and what the country has around him is watching, serving these 55 cows plus 10 and having extra incomes and offerings, of which they live very well, and I can say they are rich. And imagine now one thing, these same Amish, they don't have more than elementary school, what they're supposed to have to finish, they're rare than you're going to see, they recognize the world as members of that community, and they have more schools and they've gone out of their midst at all. So they're just enough, they're ecologically conscious, they live to the benefit of where they live, and they're not to the harm of anyone but to the benefit. If we had stayed on those indigenous breeds and the organic production that we like to talk about here, then you'd be at my level, you'd be in the thick minus, because I'm ecologically conscious and I love agrotourism, I love rural tourism, and I'm in the production of black Slavonic pigs in my free time. You can't get those pigs to the clown mass in two years, without quality crossovers with Durok Pietren or some other breed, you can't possibly fast because that pig is fat, fat, has its qualities, has its advantages, to protect the preservation of a good tradition, but there's no progress. If we wait for the tower from that black Slavonian pig, we'll have a thin papate, there isn't. It's going to be dark in that organic production, and that tower has to be not 250, but 350,00 kn, so let whoever wants it is organic products, buy that tower, and buy that farmer as well. it pays the likes of me to maintain tradition and organic production at all. If there hadn't been progress through history in the selection of seeds, in the protection of herbicides, imagine how much from Africa those who are crossing our borders these days would have been here, so they would have flooded us long ago if those who have both seed banks and these GMOs had advanced not to feed them, but would have all been at our backs here. So imagine, we and the Republic couldn't eat with what we would have been able to sustain in an ecological way. The only problem in this whole story of the preservation of mountain pastures, I saw in those flying cows, those unstable cows that appear and disappear in certain governments with certain ministers, to which the Croatian state paid for the fatty incentives. It is the only GMO product that is not acceptable to Croatian production. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149208	One is a replica, dear colleague Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149209	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culey, you've actually opened a good topic, and that's what we're actually going to be able to produce in the east of the Republic of Croatia, in Slavonia, and that it can feed the Republic, that it can feed for example. And all the tourists that come, we're always talking about that blue green line, but here the question is, if it's the quality food that comes from, if that tower is the best, how many people make it, how many people are able to grow the pigs that are going to make it, where it's going to come from, or we're going to come to realize that it's actually the cooking that it's made of, it's actually from the meat that's being imported. So if it didn't come out there anymore, is it not a 100-pound sore, which kilo, but it's 180, 200-pound. Now we've entered the core of the problem that one day we'll have to say and that tower and he's got traces of GMOs is he here Somewhere beyond where we have no control. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149210	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149211	It is generally known in Slavonia that every fifth, tenth, twentieth, it is irrelevant for us, who has nothing to do, to get caught up in, so a real tower, in what way? So he goes to Kaufland, Lidl, Bill, or the rest, and he buys 20.00 grand in return, you want a braid, you want a butt, he buys tsar meat at 12.00 kn, he brings it home, he salts it, puts it on smoke, and here he sells bacon, on the doorstep or at the market, and that's his source of income. So we all know how to do it, people don't have any pigs in their backyard, and they make tons of kitchens. I'm the only one I know who's called Ferbezar from the island, I'm not going to advertise much, but I know he's a real cool, and if I buy, I'm eating his, and I'm not going to eat some of the others, and I'm not going to mention them, I'll never take the tower.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149212	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149213	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I am looking for a break in the name of the club for 10 minutes because we have to consult with this GMO Act, but what is more important is that this is a no, unseen situation in the Croatian Parliament where Croatian citizens have the right to know what Milan Bandic is blackmailing HDZ, whether it is Zagreb Manhattan or GUP, to raise their hands in the City Assembly, whether or not you came and told them if you freed Kalmet you can free me, which is why Milan Bandić is blackmailing HDZ that HS cannot function normally, we cannot vote, we cannot make decisions, nor about GMOs, which is why Milan Bandić is holding our country by the neck and why this institution, HS must experience this humiliation, humiliation organised by Mr. Andrej Plenković, HDZ and their fellows Milan Bandić. So, on this side Croatian citizens must know how much they will pay. Whether it will pay for Zagreb at the fair with GUP because it is obvious that the mayor of Bandic is also blackmailing HDZ for GUP in Zagreb City and Zagreb Manhattan. Is blackmailing them because he saw yesterday on TV how the judiciary frees HDZ, Mr. Kalmett, because don't be fooled, is not Kalmeta released yesterday but when he became assistant secretary, Mr. Jandrokovic. At that time, he was given an already acquittal, so it is obvious that there is some agreement between Bandic and HDZ mayors, with which he is blackmailing them. Croatian citizens must know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149214	Comrade Maras, you'll get a break, but please be careful what you say because you're slandering, so just a warning. Nothing, nothing, just what I told you. ... Yes, but not for the reasons you state, they're very, very inappropriate what you're saying. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, a break of 10 minutes, as it must be according to the Rules of Procedure, continues at 13.10. It's 1:00 a.m. Next time we meet at 13,15 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149216	Since there are no more applications for a position, we are going back to the agenda point of the proposal for a GMO law. A respected colleague, Ivan Celic, has applied for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here we have heard that the new law, as well as the old law on GMOs, poisons the Croatian people, opens the door to foreign agro-companions to conquer agriculture, and those who are called sovereigns, I would say that this new law allows for stronger and greater independence of Zagreb compared to Brussels because future bans on GMO crops no longer require scientific evidence of harmfulness but are sufficient to declare a GMO product, e.g. incompatible and inappropriate for the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. Also, the strength of Zagreb's independence from Parma where the European Food Safety Authority is the centre of a monopoly on scientific risk assessments, the new GMO law is much better regulated and much more in our hands. I'd like to briefly just refer to the lab question, so the law recognizes the official laboratory and the national reference laboratory. I think it's very well regulated, what I think is controversial, it's in art. Paragraph 2 of the 14th century, therefore, the body of the state administration responsible for health care activities may appoint one or more national reference laboratories for GMOs. I know it was in the old law, too, but it seems logical that there's only one national reference laboratory for a particular problem, and there's actually now a question of public and private relations with the opening and establishment of the State Inspectorate. We have a situation, therefore, that private laboratories, dumped prices go and receive tenders and then try to agree with the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which is really the best teamed and happening, the situation that we have, to get results, and that adequate interpretation of these results remains controversial in these private laboratories. However, I hope, therefore, that such regulated articles, which speak about the obligations of official laboratories and national reference laboratories, will do so to really interpret these results that we get and which are really in the low percentages, will be of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149218	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cellic. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149219	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary, here at the end of the law, of course I, like the one who proposed the ban law of GMOs, object to GMOs. Of course science says one is for, one is, I studied a number of materials, I talked to a number of experts, I read a number of professional articles because I was interested. And of course I'm just not accepting all the restrictions that are now being put simply in reality is not so. Currently in the Republic of Croatia we have too many GMO products, but it is not a GMO product that mentions someone but is simply mentioned that it is only by vaccination, crossing some kind of product, but it is exclusively a monopoly over the seed, pushing from it all and pesticides and herbicides and, of course, everything that should be used in agriculture is driven by one and the same group. And of course against that group, even those from America are citizens in America. And they even got convictions because of severe illnesses, I repeat that again, it's Monsanto and now it's included in it. We have to think about it and decide politically and that's the right thing to do. The government says it's for GMOs, you say you're for GMOs and organic production, you say it, but that's impossible. So it's impossible to be one field, one board to be GMOs and the other to be ecological. We have to decide and at this point it's visible that we don't have any more production of our own that we're that organic essentially the one that should be brand, because I repeat, '98. In 1998. It's 21 years old, this House passed a law banning GMOs, i.e. If not, the Republic of Croatia is a country without GMOs. We, by joining the EU, have accepted these conditions which I do not think are good, although the EU is trying to break down in part now, but it is far too far from that GMO industry mainly in terms of seeds, seeds and these products that are being spent. glyphosate. Because simply what's going on, it happens that in the Republic of Croatia still happens because we have 700 thousand acres of land that is unprocessed and does not use so many pesticides and that seed but it has already entered, has entered our shelves and entered the seed. It's certain that soybeans are imported. I guarantee it's soy and not only that, but we through cattle. Here's only pork as much as we import GMOs because they eat that GMO food. And of course this is something to be devoted to, you should listen to scientists, but I don't think we should be trying rabbits. Croatia must not be a trying rabbit and our children. We have to build all the barriers because if it's in the blood, it's in the blood. in urine, if checked and that 40% of Croats have in urine glyphosate then we're talking about it being very dangerous. For the people to understand what it is, it is your cidocor, the cidocor is done of it. You know when you pour weeds, then nothing stays behind. So I gave the law in the procedure the same, going to go into the law on the ban of this pesticide is an Austrian lower home already made in Austria is forbidden and it pushes you to Monsanto and that industry. So we fight for domestic production, organic production. We have, we're small but we have rich agricultural land, we stop selling agricultural land to foreigners going since 1.1, and now the prime minister has just remembered, from next year on in a few months, now he just remembered the Ministry to stop that sale of agricultural land to foreigners. Why? Because Hungarians banned the purchase of foreign, physical and legal persons of agricultural land. When? When they saw that they had been bought a large portion of the agricultural land. Because in us there are numerous other parcels as they stayed, and then there is the possibility of a monsanto mechanic pushing his seeds into the market and his pesticides, pushing them into our market. So we must ban it, even the EU, the Commission is now imposing, but when I said it six months ago, it was not good. In addition, the European Commission adopted, i.e. certain guidelines and the European Parliament, we see certain EU countries are also against. So, personally, I'm against GMOs, and I believe one day you'll be, too, but it won't be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149220	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his closing statement. We have a final word on behalf of the proposer. Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I would like, above all, to thank all the parliamentary representatives and MPs who took part in this discussion, in this item of the agenda, especially those who stuck to these agenda points and who therefore gave very correct and concrete advice, suggestions and reflections. I have come to thank not only those who participated in the discussion but also in some way to avoid all those fears that some of the MPs referred to our citizens who were not based on any evidence, on any scientific indicators or not at all responding to the real, right truth. In fact, we are today, Mr. Bulj, a genetically free country from the cultivation of genetically modified seeds. Geneticly modified organisms is a very broad term and is only agricultural... One small, relatively small segment of genetically modified organisms, and if we were to go straight to the details of what that means, it would drag us very, very far away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this law that we have now proposed in this House is precisely aimed at protecting our entire population, controlling the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, controlling all other uses of genetically modified organisms and in medicine, biotechnology of general science as such and traceability and control of it. It is with this law that we will cover all of what I have said and thus make maximum security for full traceability, control and protection of our population from all unwanted effects if they are proven by genetically modified organisms. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149222	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Plazonic. We've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. Once again, thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic and Mrs. Valentini Zoretic Rubes, Head of the Health Ministry's department for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149223	We are now going to vote on the debated agenda points. The first is the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 666, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that the majority of votes, 100 votes "yes" and 10 votes "against" have reached a conclusion as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Now we're going to the election, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Antu Sanader to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149225	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee for the selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament proposes a Decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee for Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Miro Totgergeli is proposed. A decision on the selection of members and members of the member of the Committee on Family, Youth, Sport of the Croatian Parliament for a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Marija Mačković. Ante Babic is proposed for the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament, Mir Totgergelia, be resolved, and that Tomislav Klaric be represented as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. It is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Dr.sc. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic as she stopped acting on 19 July as president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Dr. Vesna Bedekovic for stopping the parliamentary term. For a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Josip Boric is proposed because he was a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament on 18 July 2019. As a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee, Lovro Kuščević is proposed as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee on 24 July 2019, he stopped acting as Mato Čičak because of the termination of the parliamentary term. A member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament Damir Felak is proposed and Tomislav Tolušić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. Martin Baričević is proposed to be a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, as he stopped acting on 24 July 2019 as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament because of the termination of his term of office. It is proposed to be a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament Damir Felak, as it was on 18 July 2019 that the member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Sanja Putica for the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Gender Equality be resolved by the Croatian Parliament, Dr.sc. Irene Pretrijcanin Vuksanovic, but for Vice-President of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Ljubica Maksimčuk is proposed. A member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly Ljubice Maksimčuk is proposed, while the members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Grozdana Perić, Marija Mačković and Martin Baričević. For a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly, Tomislav Lipoščak is proposed because on 18 July 2019, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly stopped acting as Sanja Putica for the termination of the parliamentary term. For the head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Tomislav Tolusic is proposed because on 18 July 2019, the Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe stopped acting as Sanja Putica because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149226	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We've got two MPs who called, and first we'll go on behalf of the club. That's the first one. A respected colleague of the Grmoy on behalf of the Independent Lists Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149227	Thank you, Your Honor. The Croatian public is appalled by the fact that the man to whom we have removed the immunity which is being accused and who is suspected of corrupt activities, means HDZ is appointed here, and I guess we should vote in the Committee on Legislatives. It is a terrible message sent to the Croatian public, but it is not the first, we had a man against whom a long-term procedure was conducted, so Bozidar Kaleta, whom Andrej Plenkovic was appointed to be one of the key people in the HDZ operation, and that was already a sign not only of political but also of the judicial rehabilitation that took place yesterday. Trust in the judiciary is on an ever lower branch, people who are under heavy corruption charges are holding this government, people who are being prosecuted means criminal proceedings are key actors of this government, and besides, we couldn't vote at 12 o'clock because the man who is the key wheel of this government is Milan Bandic without whose chips, so if, as he said himself, I quote his words, "If a coin sneezes, the Government doesn't have one." So it's clear what the trade coalition is about, it's clear what interests are at stake here, and what I'm surprised is that those who are calling for a fight against corruption and clientism are still here on Fridays are part of it. So, those who announce a deal with clientelism and corruption in HDZ raise their hands here every Friday along with these chips and all those against whom criminal, criminal proceedings are being conducted. It says that the announcement of the fight against corruption and clientism is not sincere, it is driven solely by the desire to take the lead in the party in which, unfortunately, the actual will to account is gone. Of course it is not when the overall power of this political option from lower local levels to regional levels means when we talk about mayors and further depends exactly on corruption and clienteleism. The calculation of corruption and clientelism can only bring new political forces that have shown that they have the right to leave the ruling majority if they collapse means transparency norms, if there is no real will to deal with corruption, and it does not mean these old spent structures that are just resting on corruption and clientelism. I call on all Croatian citizens that everyone who is lower in their workplace, in their environment, shows that this society and that we as Croatian citizens will no longer allow corruption to devour all pores of Croatian society, that is simply what drives people from Croatia. Not so much, it means that the problem of course is employment and better pay, but I think yesterday, but even today what is happening in the Croatian Parliament actually eats the most as a society, ruins mistrust in institutions and spoils me would say the whole impression of what is happening in Croatian society, and certainly there are many positive things to talk about and what is happening. Finally, I ask you dear colleagues and colleagues we have a good legal proposal, the Law on the Registration of Politician Costs, which in one place wants to unite all the costs of politicians because we believe that the fight for transparency is a prerequisite for fighting corruption. By ruling this law, they refused in one interesting way, they said that we already have a commission to prevent conflicts of interest, and if a request is made to the Commission, if only the commission asks for those costs, travel orders, that this has already been settled, and we see that you are the one who is satiated by the rulings that have rejected our law do not want to provide documentation to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. In addition, we have a situation, and I will open it next week where the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has for months refused to submit travel orders to Australia where diplomat Sablak revealed the illegal spending of money in these embassies, which is why he is away from the service so that the Official Court will now return him to work with a first-degree ruling. These are all questions that Croatian citizens are looking for answers, they want to know how their money is spent, and this is dear colleagues from HDZ and the ruling coalition a real fight against corruption and clientelism, not phrases, not inspired speeches, not campaigns, meaning concrete tools that we can achieve more transparency in Croatian society and ultimately deal with corruption. I call on you to support this legislative proposal, because only in transparency can I say we begin this fight against corruption at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149228	We're going to individual debates now. First up, MP Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will not enter into the motives of every club to propose members of the committee that they think can best perform the task for which their proposed them, or the club of representatives of their party, has proposed. This will eventually be evaluated by voters in the Republic of Croatia and each of the names we propose in any committee is subject to both criticism of the public and eventually the final court will give voters and will say what they think, what they think of each page, what they think of their messages, what they think of who is fighting corruption, who is fighting for corruption. Because unfortunately in Croatian politics there are not only this Mr. Milan Bandic who has run for president of the Republic of Croatia, there are unfortunately many politicians who promote non-transparency, corruption with their everyday behavior. What we saw today in the Croatian Parliament is also corrupt behavior. Corruption behaviour where the procedure is unknown, there are no motives why someone has obstructed someone's vote, there is no idea why the mayor is even the mayor and with which the mayor Bandic is being blackmailed by HDZ that, that the Croatian Parliament cannot function normally, it is also non-transparent and corrupt behaviour. I'm not talking about the way the mayor Bandic collected his club, it's something quite different about it everyone knows everything and about this great majority of citizens, I would say the vast majority of citizens have their own opinion that will also reward by not voting for such options in the next election, but the problem is what is allegedly a party that wants to take care of Croatia and its interests HDZ has agreed that the mayor Bandic is being blackmailed. Even with this vote on the election and appointment of members and members of certain working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Today, a very clear message has been sent by the gentlemen of HDZ, that Mayor Bandic is holding you in power, and it is a great honor for you if he holds you in power, under quotes. A man who promoted corrupt behavior in the capital, who has a lot of accusations against himself that can be monitored every day in the media. I believe that if Mr. Bacic chose whom to trust Mrs. Demarin, the academic demarin or Mr. Bandic, he would probably choose Mrs. Bandic. I would choose Mrs. Demarin. And this behavior of HDZ essentially tolerates such politicians, not only tolerates them but supports them, it is Siamesely connected to them and in some way what we thought we would move away, unfortunately HDZ is bringing us back deeper and deeper into it, which is corruption policy. And that's the framework we talked about this week and in the current hour, and that's the framework that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately see. I'm not happy about it, I wish we could get away from corruption, but we can't. If it is corrupt, the corrupt way most people operate, how can we expect Croatia to move away from corruption. Today we were supposed to vote colleagues and colleagues at 12 o'clock, nothing caused an hour of man's muscles showing that every day the capital of the Republic of Croatia has shown that he is a key partner, he even threw in the shadows and those who deceived his voters from the HNS, he is a key partner of the HDZ and only each of us can wonder what he's blackmailing HDZ with? Does he blackmail with the GUP, blackmail with other things we don't know? Perhaps Mr. Bačić, in the final presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will be blackmailing the HDZ mayor and why the whole of Croatia has been buried in a glib of corruption because of such a ruling coalition. And individuals in HDZ like Mr Stier even cry out that HDZ is sending out messages that it is not something that his HDZ should participate in, these are messages and Mr Stier, there are individuals in HDZ who are clearly and loudly advertised against it, but the government's interest clearly prevails in HDZ to continue corruption as the cornerstone of the government of the Republic of HDZ and the majority in the Croatian Parliament. Perhaps if Mr. Andrej Plenkovic ever allows elections in HDZ before the next parliamentary elections, perhaps Mr. Stier or Mr. Kovac try to change that and such HDZ, but about that afterwards. What I mean is that in the Croatian Parliament we would have to send a very clear message, that there is no individual, no interest group, no one else who can influence the Croatian Parliament and such as the painting in the lobby of the Croatian Parliament where the symbolic sky is painted on the ceiling that only the sky is above the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, the sky over the Croatian Parliament is black these days, clouded, stormy, and I hope that the sun will shine very quickly, but it will not be possible until this coalition is changed. While the citizens of the Republic of Croatia see that the interests of individuals, whether in Zagreb or elsewhere, do not prevail on the interests of citizens who should be the only legitimate ones and the only ones who should motivate us to represent them here. Unfortunately, that's not the case. And that is why colleagues and colleagues, although this is one routine point and usually only votes with it, is impossible after three years of the government after so much corruption in the Republic of Croatia that has taken place, after so much change in the electoral will of Croatian citizens, so is it not a shame that more than 20 MPs in the Croatian Parliament were initially not part of the ruling majority. Isn't that a shame? And that the dead cold ones here on Friday show up and vote like nothing happened. Any responsible premium, politician, one that has a responsibility to his country would have called the election a long time ago. And now talking about early elections doesn't make sense because de facto regular elections will be in 3 months if they are discussed in 2020, but it's a shame and it's never happened again that we have this mandate in the Croatian Parliament where people betray their voters where corruption is what is tolerated, and even in some situations it rewards, where it's instantaneous as it doesn't matter, it's important that we keep our chairs, all of this needs to be forgotten as soon as possible, and we need to leave it behind as soon as possible. If there were few morals in this Croatian Parliament, we would have been in parliamentary elections long ago, regardless of who won, who lost, but Croatian voters should be the ones we represent, the ones that are most important. They are not the most important chairs, it is not important to preserve power in Zagreb and at the state level, it is not important to be a state secretary or minister, it is not important to chair the EU as prime minister and because of such a feeling to cause feelings and put behind them feelings of all Croatian citizens who feel that things are wrong and that we should go to new elections. And it will prove very quickly in the presidential elections, that the policies promoted by HDZ simply cannot succeed, not even in their own party, or even in HDZ, which is why HDZ representatives say they support Škor, which is why many HDZ members and supporters will vote for Škor. Because you can't force yourself, you have to show people that you work for them, not for yourself. Unfortunately, this majority has not shown in the last three years, and voters will punish them very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149230	We are now going to the final address is the first turn of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149231	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues I simply cannot believe that our two colleagues here in the assembly can discuss this point in this way. It is amazing to me that MPs would dispute another representative's behaviour in HS affairs that were guaranteed to him by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Namely, a fellow representative who today becomes a member of the Committee on Legislatives by appointing a single working body HS, has been rewarded, has not been demoted, has not been larger, nor has he been a smaller representative after his appointment in the working body than he had been before. The constitution is the biggest legal act to be passed here in HS. If someone needs to respect HS, MPs in HS should first of all respect it. And for us MPs in HS if any principle entered in the Croatian Constitution should be the Holy Scriptures, these are the two principles, the principle of presummation of innocence and the principle which shows that the Republic of Croatia is a democratic state, which is that there is independence of the judiciary and that neither the executive nor the legislative authority should in any way influence the Croatian judiciary. This way, when you're discussing it like this, when you challenge one representative to become a member, imagine a working body in HS, become a member of a working body in HS, you already want to condemn it in advance because as it is not worthy to be a member of a working body and you say it so easily and that you are not uncomfortable. I was embarrassed to listen to you, and I bowed my head because I couldn't believe that you had not been charged against a man, who was asked by the state's attorney to remove immunity in order to carry out an investigation, therefore the indictment has not yet been filed, and I'm not saying that this is far from accepting that indictment, that this is far from being ruled by the power of power, that this is even further from a judicial verdict, you want to say in the beginning he is guilty and that you are not ashamed of such a representative who has become a representative of the will of Croatian citizens to appoint one working body. I can't believe I'm hearing it from Gordan Maras and Nikola, Nikola Grumoje's mouth. And not to say that I would be ashamed to say it here in HS, not to say that it is even worse than that, that it is by a member of the representative body, the legislative body, I find it rude to go into the independence of the judiciary, because from here on out of HS you send a message to the Croatian judiciary he is guilty of us, so you condemn him because to us, he can't be a member of any working body. I'm saying, which is why he's not, he's not bigger, he's smaller, he's equal representative and, or a member of a working body, or he's not a member of a working body. And when words like this come from our colleagues from MOST who talk about, in this way they appear, then in a completely different light I look at their demands when we were in our first coalition, when their hands and legs fought to belong to the justice and home affairs portfolio, then I look at it in a completely different light. I ask you to be reasonable, that at least we MPs here from HS don't send these messages, respect the integrity of every person, be he a representative, be an ordinary citizen, stick to the constitutional principle of presummation of innocence and allow each of us to be suspected, be at the stage, be his case at the stage of the investigation, be equal to the Croatian judiciary. So collegiate to each other we must be regardless of ours, our worldview and our party membership. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149232	We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149233	Thank you. Dear President HS, the officer has been injured. 238. So, counterpart Bacic claims that I have committed a blow to the independence of the Croatian judiciary and pressure, which is absolutely incorrect. If someone has been putting pressure on the independence of the Croatian judiciary for all these 20 and a few years it is Branko Bačić, Vladimir Seks and other best men.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149234	Comrade Grmoy, of course there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but what's even more absurd is that you've now done the same thing that you've been looking for injure the Rules of Procedure and accused the other side of putting pressure. So, please refrain from such comments, please welcome fellow Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149235	Thank you very much, he was injured in 238, and it is also an incredible paradox that HDZ who created the justice system in the 90s led by Vladimir Seks accuses MPs who, as a large majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, do not trust that pressure system, so that is, it is nonsen just like that. Gentlemen, 90% of our fellow citizens have no confidence in what's happening right now. in the justice system, and it's not our fault... [[Intruder: I thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149236	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149237	...but it's Mr. HDZ's fault. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149238	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149239	Unfortunately... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149240	Comrade Maras please sit down, colleague Maras, colleague Maras...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149241	I can speak, I'm not afraid of anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149242	Just a minute, please, just a minute. My colleague Maras sit down, you can't talk, the time is up, you haven't justifiably confirmed the request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please sit down, please sit down, the judiciary is also independent and we won't go into the measure of judgment from here, because if we do so then it would be like at some point when the head of your party is 45.g. harassed the population of the Republic of Croatia. Let's move on, now it's time for the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, finally on behalf of the Most Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149243	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues' choice and the appointment of my colleague Lovre Kuščević, otherwise I don't like people, are not in the principle of shoeing people when they are now their shoes or theirs, otherwise I was like that at the time of Sanader while here the chairman Mr Jandrokovic was with him, after which others who ended up being pressured and I would not be affected by the judiciary I would just say, talked about the legislative framework because for the first time I got a firm measure in the case of Lovra Kuščević that two days I could not participate in the assembly solely because Lovre Kuščević had just entered the Committee on Legislatives, and he is guilty of that, i.e. The gravedigger of the referendum is the pulsation of 400,000 people who have collected the signatures of the referendum the people decide. amendments to the electoral law because not until today's ministry, and then he, like him, gave him the role of doing these affairs in this case to stop the referendum and to maintain Plenkovic and all the presidents of the parties their strength within the HDZ. That's 40,000 unsigned signatures we didn't get. Also when we're looking at the lex sheriff, the lex sheriff Bandic of today, what was happening is essentially the cause of the lex sheriff. By order of Andrej Plenkovic, of course Milan Bandic, Lovre Kuščević was conducted by the lex sheriff. You see what power and power gives the mayors lex sheriff. That's where democracy, the representative council, you most of you who voted then are aware of what you've done. You've made such a monster at this point that simply the representative bodies can't do anything to them. You gave them so much power through the law that Lovre Kuščević carried out with a natural blessing, i.e. The order of Andrej Plenkovic and Milan Bandic, which is a lex sheriff, is simple, and the Constitutional Court has not responded to all objections, of course and there is a link to the Kumic connection. Once again when we mention the role of Lovra Kuščević, remember the conflict of the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Whoever pressured the most when he announced changes to the law, Lovre Kuščević pressured not exactly how much Andrej Plenkovic now, but certainly pressured the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, in a way that he spoke, in fact the lady from the commission herself said that it was a huge pressure on her. Once again when we talk about this appointment, I would only briefly say that the Committee on Legislatives and what Mr. Bačić said earlier, any parliamentary representative, the group may propose it, but we really cannot vote. I gave the clarifications briefly, the man carried out everything that Andrej Plenkovic wrote to him, and even I was here, Vice-President Miljan Brkic, for two days he punished me for not being able to be in, the right of speech, to take away the word, which he took away the right of people i.e. The right to refer to our citizens, the people decide, of course. And now that we're making this decision, the question is, what are we doing here in the assembly? We name the man who is the graver of the referendum, the man who pressured the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest which brought the referendum, who brought the pardon, who brought the lex sheriff, we know what made it possible here in Zagreb, we see what happens that you colleagues depend on Milan Bandić and his I will not tell the chips, I think it is beneath honor what Milan Bandic said about his parliamentary representatives, fellow MPs and of course it is disastrous. But when a fellow Bacic is called to democracy, when he calls on the Constitution, to legislation, so here a few days ago he's a journalist, I disagree with that, closed. A colleague of Mr. Zivkovic, when he was 80 years old in Vukovar, 2 sons were lost, he was told, the judge said he regretted being alone for his two sons who gave their lives to Vukovar, and the man you agree with because together he told Croatia that he was fascist, that he was a dictatorial state and that he would end up as NDH. Which means that you gentlemen agree with him because of this appointment of Lovra Kuščević in such a miserable body I call upon and the opposition to leave this place, and also here it would be good to chair that you have a feeling and nose to congratulate Mr. Kovac on your birthday.../incomprehensible/ Thank you very much. [[Come on, please, your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149244	Your time is up and thank you for your very wise presentation. Okay. We will now vote, so I am voting the motion for decisions of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. There's not enough, okay. We don't have the quorum as far as my associate is telling me, there's not enough so we'll vote on this when the conditions come to pass. Now we go to Selection, appointments, appointments and resolutions. So I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the motion for a decision. So these are new decisions compared to those we had last time and we will vote on them after we hear the arguments and vote on these new decisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149246	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs proposes a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Josko Klisović is proposed and Vinko Grgic is proposed as a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly Allen Prelec is proposed and Vinko Grgic is proposed as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. For the president, it is proposed to be president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament, Michael Zmajlović, while being resolved, a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament, Michael Zmajlovic, is proposed to stop acting on behalf of the President of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament, because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, Recimir Varda, be resolved on a personal request and Robert Jankovics, vice-president of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed. The President of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Michael Zmajlovic, is proposed and the Vice-President of the Committee on Gender Equality is proposed. Irene Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Marija Puh is proposed as Vice-President of the Committee on Equality of the Croatian Parliament Committee. This is resolved by a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly, Marija Puh. The members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly are proposed by Grozdana Perić, Marija Mačković and Martin Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149247	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers, I will conclude the debate and vote on the Committee's proposal for a decision on selection, appointment and administrative affairs, which the president of the Ante Sanader Committee has just presented to us. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, we have made decisions as proposed by the Committee. We now move to a vote on proposals 10 of the decisions proposed by the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs and discussed at the meeting on 20 September 2019. I propose we hold a united vote on all 10 proposals for decisions. I would like to stress that we will not vote today in the proposal for a decision on the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Legislatives as well as on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President, the resolution of the member, the election of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Gender Equality, which the applicant has withdrawn. So I am voting on proposal 10 of the decisions of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, we have made decisions as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. That's what we came to the end of the vote. And now let's go to the last one, it's the election, appointments and resolutions, so I'd like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149249	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 105(1) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 of this Regulation. Article 161 and Article 273 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee for Selection and Designation proposes a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Marija Mačković is proposed to be a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee, as he stopped acting as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Law on 24 July 2019 because of the termination of his term of office. A decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament Ana Comparić Devčić be resolved and Tomislav Žagar is proposed as vice-president of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149250	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. He's reporting for an individual debate with his colleague, Bauk. Here you go. Someone's got a microphone on. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149251	Mr. President, since the point at which I thought to report to you has not been read by the board president, and as far as the election of members of the island council is concerned, I am withdrawing my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149252	Thank you very much. Then we can close the debate. We can also vote unitedly on both points, so I propose a decision on selection and appointment and administrative matters. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 98 for and 1 abstentions, have made decisions as proposed by the board. That concludes today's vote. We continue the free debates, but before that, I ask that colleagues and colleagues who wish to leave the assembly do so so that they can continue to speak in peace. Now we're going to the final vote of choice, appointment and resolution. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149254	Thank you very much, President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee for the Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament proposes a decision on the selection and termination of the term of office of the members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. For an article of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Vlaho Orepic is proposed because he was on 18 June 2019 as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Branimir Bunjac for the termination of his term of office, a representative's term of office. A member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Rezimir Varda, is proposed, and Milanka Opačić is proposed as a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Davor Lončar is proposed and Ante Plazonić is proposed as a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Bilek is proposed and Damir Felak is proposed as a member of the Committee on Agriculture. A member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament Davor Lončar is proposed and Drazen Milinković is proposed as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament Damir Felak be resolved, while Vladimir Bilek is proposed to be a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly Sabin Glasovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149255	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate because no one is coming forward and I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 95 for and 2 abstentions, have made decisions as proposed by the board. Before we go, just please, for a free speech and then a continuation of the point we had in the morning, the information so that the assembly continues to work on Wednesday 6 November and that day will be a debate on budget rebalancing, on Thursday 7th, there will be a debate on the draft budget for 2020 and a projection for '21. And '22. A year, and Friday would be a debate on the Law on holidays, memorials and days of unemployment. Also, only because of the work of the Committee on Wednesday would we be on daily work and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2019 and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and I would ask the representatives of the Committee to hold their meetings by Wednesday and Friday respectively. Thank you very much. Those who are not interested in free speech please leave the assembly, so that colleagues who will speak wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149257	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on cooperation in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft activities, second reading, P.Z. No 677 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are as a rule adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. I'm asking the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. Mr Tomislav Ivić, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Mr. Evic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary deputies and MPs, the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Hungary are neighbouring countries with a long common border of NATO and EU members. Our co-operation in the field of defence and security is at an envious level. Together we are involved in several important projects and have signed an agreement on cooperation in the field of aviation and anti-aircraft activities in Budapest on 8 April 2019. The proposed agreement confirms good defence cooperation between the Republic of Hungary and also contributes to the surveillance of safety and protection of international air traffic. By joining Croatia in NATO, our country has become part of NATO's integrated system of anti-aircraft and pro-tourque defence of NATINAMDS. The fundamental purpose of this system is the security of the Allied airspace, and by signing this agreement with Hungary, we have taken a step forward towards its full functionality. In order to increase efficiency in carrying out NATO airspace surveillance tasks at all levels, it stresses the importance of inter-state co-operation and encourages the signing of international agreements between neighbouring NATO Member States for joint implementation of airspace protection and surveillance tasks in cross-border areas. The competent Allied commanders are constantly stressing the importance of concluding this type of international contract between neighbouring NATO members and between Hungary and Croatia. This is necessary to ensure the smooth implementation of airspace surveillance and surveillance tasks in cross-border areas in the territory of the Alliance. In a practical sense, such bilateral agreements allow responsible NATO commanders in the event of the need for the use of one country's fighter aircraft in neighbouring Member States' border airspaces, for example. Croatian fighter aircraft interceptors in the airspace of Hungary or Hungary in the airspace of Croatia. In the event of an aircraft accident or an incident in the territory of a State of one party, the other party may, at the request of a party whose national airspace has taken place, send a military aircraft to search and rescue or to search for another party without submitting diplomatic approval or flight plan. The Parties shall conduct training and organise visits, including training for cross-border operations. The signed agreement gives permanent reciprocal legitimacy to carry out one country’s aviation activities in the airspace of another country without prior notice and diplomatic approval, contributing to more effective defence in the event of such a need. An aircraft to monitor and protect airspace, including training flights, may use the national airspace of another party without diplomatic approval or flight plan. The use of national airspace and air carriers, ports of States Parties shall be in accordance with the NATINAMDS and shall be coordinated between the responsible units of the parties. We plan to sign such agreements with other countries as well. The Agreement lays down reciprocal fundamental rules of cooperation between Croatia and Hungary within the framework of NATINAMDS, determines the responsibilities of both sides, rules of use of national airspace and airports, search and rescue, and investigation of aircraft accidents, training, aircraft service, and exchange of data relating to airspace surveillance and protection. This does not mean that we have left the protection of the Croatian sky to others but to take seriously our responsibility for the alliance as well as the importance of full functionality of all systems within the alliances. It is important to stress that the national legislation prescribes that the Croatian Parliament, through the national authority, gives first authorisation to act as a force within the NATINAMDS system, only after that approval can the Allied Commander issue an order for combat action. Finally, I want to point out that this agreement retains sovereignty by protecting our sky, but at the same time it becomes even more secure that it is in our interest and in the interest of the alliance as a whole. This Agreement shall be concluded indefinitely, may be amended and completed at any time by mutual written consent of the Parties. The proposed law confirms an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft activities. The implementation of this law in part is the Ministry of Defence and no additional funding from the State budget is necessary for its implementation, as it will take place through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence and given the nature of the procedures for the confirmation of international contracts, this law is proposed to be discussed and adopted in one reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149259	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Ivic, for the explanation of this bill. We have replicas. Comrade Ante Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149260	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary General, one question at a time. We discussed exactly this agreement and at the very meeting of the Defence Committee, and it was few questions with which we plan to sign all of this agreement first, but I am interested in this part, understandably why we are just joining, signing this agreement and bringing it to it, but what is the procedure for signing this agreement with and with non-NATO member states, which are in our environment, and perhaps it is of interest for us to sign this agreement exactly, and is that even in the plan of the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149261	Thank you. Secretary of State Ivić's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149262	Thank you very much. This is the first agreement Croatia will sign thus with a neighbouring country that is both a member of the NATO alliance and the EU. It is in preparation and discusses signing the agreement with Montenegro as well. These agreements are signed between NATO member states. So of the neighbouring countries there is still that Slovenia of this all other country, Italy, is, so these other countries are not members of this NATO alliance, I mean BiH, Serbia and will not be signed with them of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149263	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149264	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, just a little bit to be clear, given that there have been some misinformation in the public space that this is a gradual introduction that the military air force of neighbouring Hungary is taking over the protection of Croatia's airspace, and then that the Hungarians will literally fly around our airspace day and night, which is not true. This is all about NATO tasks and ensuring better performance of these tasks. Or if the Croatian Air Force is tasked with following a particular aircraft, follow it so long as the NATO Command doesn't give orders to take over, say, Hungary's Air Force or vice versa if the Hungarian Air Force follows it enters the Croatian airspace so deep that the same NATO command does not give orders to the Croatian Air Force to take over. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149265	State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149266	Right, that's exactly what this is about. So, I also said in the opening statement that this does not mean the transfer of the obligation to protect the airspace to Hungary, but that Croatia will, of course, continue to sovereignly defend its airspace. This is therefore an agreement on cross-border cooperation with the protection of airspace. I also said that such agreements encourage both the NATO alliance and command and that other countries, of course, have signed bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries which are of course members of the NATO alliance, so let's say the example of Germany, Germany has such an agreement signed with the Czech Republic, France, Belgium and the Netherlands. At the stage of this preparations for adoption are agreements with Denmark, Norway, Great Britain, so of course this is not about the transfer of sovereignty so that the protection of Germany's airspace to other countries, but rather about the protection of Germany's airspace. a simple agreement establishing cooperation in the protection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149267	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149268	Thank you very much. Here's the deal with our neighbours who also, you mentioned is in NATO, we know, but what's going to fly in Croatia, where are the planes? The key question is, where are the planes? We know that the MiGs were on the remont in 2015 or that they were returned from Ukraine in parts of the cariola. We know the public procurement failed. What will fly from the Croatian army? I expected new planes, to fly it, to restore that ability to the Croatian soldier's ability to fly, there's nothing to fly. And then apparently Hungary will fly, because I don't know what you sign. Where are the planes? Where are the planes? I'm sorry General Krsticevic, the defence minister, isn't here to tell me where the planes are. What will the Croatian pilot fly with? Only the sea of Hungarians, if we don't have a plane. Where are the planes? You promised planes and that ability to preserve, the government of Zoran Milanovic brought them back in parts of the MiG cariola, and you didn't keep your promise. Buying new planes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149269	Thank you. Here's the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149270	Mr. Bulj knows very well that Croatia has, at this very moment of course, this air force and that the life of the MiGs that are now in operation has not expired and given them some time they can fly and that they can protect Croatian airspace. What you certainly know and what happened after the failed attempt to obtain aircraft from Israel was that a resolute government group was established to restart it and which launched the process of obtaining a fighter aircraft and I am convinced that it will be dealt with relatively quickly in the light of the procedure and everything else and that issue. What is crucial Croatia has not given up or the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not given up a fighter plane, but has launched a new procedure for the purchase of a fighter aircraft and Croatia will certainly have a military air force.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149271	Thank you very much for your answer. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Young Fellows Panenic. He's not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Ante Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149272	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft activities. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government on cooperation in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft activities was concluded in Budapest on 8 April, and the agreement is concluded indefinitely and may be amended and completed at any time by mutual written consent of the parties. Each party may also conclude an agreement with written notice by another foreign diplomatic means and in that case the agreement shall cease six months from the date on which the other party has received notification of the end. The Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Hungary have a highly established level of bilateral defence cooperation in the field of joint training, cooperation with the Special Action Force, joint participation in international military exercises, as well as through regional defence initiatives to contribute to the membership of the North Atlantic Treaty and the EU. The Agreement on cooperation in the field of aviation achieves better efficiency and more efficient and more flexible implementation of joint tasks of Croatian and Hungarian aviation defined under NATO. The adoption of this law will fulfil the internal legal conditions for the entry into force of an agreement laying down the basic rules of cooperation between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Hungary and in view of the anti-aircraft defence of their readiness in the context of the resolution of other issues relating to the implementation of airspace surveillance and protection, including cross-border operations and staff training. The provisions of this Agreement allow for the extension of the cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Hungary in the field of anti-aircraft defence. This law also confirms the agreement in order to ensure that its provisions are in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, according to its internal order, the Republic of Croatia. As you have heard from the State Secretary for Law Implementation, there is no need to provide additional funding, since funds from the State budget intended for the Ministry of Defence will be used. The deal is good for both states and stronger capabilities both of these countries and NATO. Croatia and Hungary are an important and stabilising factor for Southeast Europe. These two countries are among the safest countries, and thanks to the mutual co-operation that the agreement seeks to deepen further. The mutual cooperation agreed by this agreement gives us the opportunity to share great experience and knowledge and to contribute to making cooperation between the Republic of Hungary even better. For all these reasons, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Hungary on cooperation in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft activities. What does this agreement mean in a practical sense? We heard the secretary of state. Thank God not so often, but it happens that in the air space of the Republic of Croatia, aircraft that cannot be identified or are deafened about calls for air navigation control to be identified. In this case, the Croatian Air Force or the MIG on-call pair who are tasked with intercepting, identifying, determining what it is. Recently, we had a case like this somewhere in the Split area of the secretary of state, when the airspace around Vis entered somewhere, a small aircraft was later established that did not respond to calls from Air Control and, of course, the MiGs were given the assignment and somewhere above Trilj they intercepted this plane. In fact, they determined that the pilot did not set the frequency or set up the communication channel and that was why he did not identify himself. And we can say that this is one benign situation, but we certainly needed to know what it was about. Given that at the border as we have, we are relatively depressed and that even low-speed aircraft are moving relatively quickly across our space, it is necessary to react quickly and quickly. It could have happened that our MiGs reached that plane somewhere in the Kamenski area and in the situation that someone said yesterday on the Defence Committee, we should pull back manually and turn back without identifying the target, because we do not have a signed interstate agreement on such cooperation with the Republic of BiH. If by any chance this plane had flown towards Hungary, the same would have happened, and that is exactly why this agreement is important because our people would have to withdraw the handheld on Dravi. After this agreement has been reached, our combat team will certainly be able to continue the flight to Hungary because the duty commandership or the competent command has also raised their fighter planes and ours will be able to track him until the moment the Hungarian colleagues arrive to their fighters. The same story applies although... it flies somewhere from the north through Hungary and passes into our airspace. The Hungarian hunters are tracking him to the moment and the arrival of our MiGs. Why is it important to follow the goal? They're not, maybe not all, well-intentioned. We need to know who is entering our space for the protection and security of our citizens, our property at the end. You've seen what happened in another part of the world, when in an uncontrollably or when it comes in, I don't know what term would be used in this case, enters the airspace of another country, and when there's damage that has far-reaching consequences for the country's economy, and I'd say wider. There were comments here that we had nothing to fly with, or it was a question of where the planes were. We know exactly where we're standing with our air force, there's no reason to raise the issue of public procurement, but thank God and this little thing that's left flying and it's still able to intercept what's coming to us from any side of our border, and that's very important right now. This agreement will help us to be more effective in cooperation with other countries, so it is important to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149273	Thank you. We move on to individual discussions, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. He's not present. Dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149274	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues on instructions, Your Honor's Secretary of State, once again, and the secretary general of the ministry. I think it's a good thing there's no big debate on this kind of bill and agreement, and that means that we're a safe country and that this topic is not in the focus and focus. I would just point out in a brief discussion what the quality of the defence ministry's work is showing this agreement, showing that this is the first agreement between Croatia and Hungary to continue on to other countries in the neighbourhood of NATO member states. And it is particularly interesting to us, and I think that among the following after Montenegro there will be Italy... just as counterpart Plazonic mentioned with whom we have a great sea border, but also an air border where we need to strengthen normal surveillance, but with this way and with this agreement we are also strengthening the surveillance of our airspace and our armies working together. But we need to look at the aspect of exactly the Ministry of Defense and all the aspirations that this agreement at this point I don't think is random. All of what we have dedicated in recent years and that we are following the activities of the Ministry and the Minister himself concerning the strengthening and position of the Croatian Army and the return of material rights and status and better equipment and we see the deployment of armies throughout Croatia, we have returned the Croatian army to the streets of our cities and municipalities where they belong, where they help our fellow citizens. But this second aspect when we see what's been happening in the last few months, I repeat that this agreement is not random and that this agreement has one whole, which is exactly the international activity of our ministry. Do I think that today when we look at 2019 and our minister's position with other EU and NATO defence ministers and when we see the international position and the very strength of our army and the position in all international organisations and the amount of operations with its allies, I think he has never been better. And that's why just a few days ago, we had an International Homeland Security Conference in crisis management that is not random. At this very moment, it happened in Croatia where all the prominent experts were from the area. It is not by any chance that the first international airing will be held in Zadar for the first time in the past year where we will strengthen the other tribes of the Croatian Army. But it is definitely not an accident that about half a year ago we also had a joint exercise of the Croatian Army and NATO partners in Slunj where Hungary and the rest of our partners participated where we saw firsthand that the Croatian Army is participating in a large system in a large NATO system where "the border becomes a problem", meaning these operations are becoming increasingly to show readiness not only for the Croatian Army but also for NATO partners. So we have seen that at certain times when such large operations or land or especially air forces have to cross the border of another country and that creates normally certain administrative customs and other barriers. And this is exactly the kind of agreement that will remove these barriers between NATO members, but it will normally strengthen our position within the NATO alliance, as well as our position here in the neighbourhood. It's important to emphasize what we heard at the beginning that this has nothing to do with the transfer of air space powers to anyone else. These are all our concerns that they won't get any new planes, they're definitely not standing, and we've heard from the Minister that since early 2020, he's been moving again. It has already started the procurement process and competitions for new planes that will be accelerated in early 2020 so that when we complete all of this, I think by then other agreements will be concluded so that when we complete all of this, I think we will show once again that there is no match for the Croatian Army and have reported for the end, just to mention that today is the 28th anniversary of the Croatian Navy, the marking is currently in Dubrovnik, I think that one contingent of ours is in Operation Sea Guardian if he has not returned, so here, along this way, normally and all members and members of the Croatian Navy, we must wish all congratulations and in marking his day, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149275	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Ante Plazonic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149276	Thank you, Mr Bacic, for favouring the signing of this agreement and not only of this agreement but also of the agreement with other countries in the environment, which are within NATO and the EU, which is what it is because in this way we certainly improve the efficiency of both our aviation and our defence capabilities. What's good all over this story, that when crossing the border they don't have to ask for any consent, so this significantly allows the speed of reaching the goal, it's always important, that speed is always important and especially in the aviation sector. So there are no administrative obstacles, there are no threats that someone will tell us that we've redeployed someone's airspace and diplomatic notes and hundreds of wonders, this agreement right now regulates such a situation that planes uninterrupted in other people's airspace and so do these.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149277	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149278	Thank you, colleague Plazonic. I must agree with you, and you have well noted, it is also an important aspect that the Republic of Croatia has a specific and large border with countries in the environment and a narrow space in certain parts of the neighbouring country and our land and our territory, so it is extremely important and it is very important when God does not give way and such a fly or illegal flight takes place that can and normally react faster these agreements will simply and will strengthen not only the sense and strength of our army but simply lift the barriers in the sense that they can perform more effectively in the operations and exercises that will be by NATO alliances and that will cover the territory of more states, not only to be implemented in the area of the Republic, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149279	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149280	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you pointed out in your debate that the adoption of this law is just another proof of good governance or quality management of the Ministry of Defence, which I absolutely agree with. The contribution is a number of praises from our soldiers in peacekeeping missions and the involvement of the Croatian military in elementary disasters, regardless of whether it is floods, fires, snow blizzards and the return of rights to soldiers, then the return of the military to cities, Vukovar, Varazdin, Sinj, Ploče, soon and in Pula. Today, for example, the 28th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Varazdin and the day of the defender of the Varazdin County is marked in Varazdin. I can tell you that in the last year we didn't return the Battle Puma to Varazdin, surely that anniversary wouldn't be as glorious as... The square is full of citizens, children who have come to greet their army and police, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149281	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149282	We can only stress this aspect of not only the international activities of our ministry and everything that is done in this field, not only the transition to airspace and the permission to move to the airspace of a particular country, this agreement is very important for both the search and rescue and the exploration of aircraft accidents so that it has a little wider picture of itself, so it will certainly benefit both our military and the entire Republic of Croatia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149283	Thank you. And with this, we've exhausted all the debates, and I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Ivic, and the Secretary of the Ministry of Explanatory. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue to work on Wednesday, September 25 at 9:30 in the morning with the Final Proposal for a Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU, a second reading. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 14.58 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-20-0.u149284	Final Proposal for a Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft activities, second reading, P.Z. No. 677, the proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed and I am voting on that final draft of the law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 are "for" and 3 "abstained" the Law on the validation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Hungary on cooperation in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft activities. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's the beginning of this week's plenary session and we start as always with club attitudes, free speech. The first one is today by a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and Power. Here you go.
