ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179158	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. This legislative proposal shall ensure the implementation of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and laying down detailed rules for the safety labels on packaging of medicinal products for human use which prescribes measures to prevent the introduction of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal supply chain by requiring that certain medicinal products for human use be placed on the packaging of certain medicinal products consisting of a unique identifier and protection from opening, in order to allow the identification and verification of the authenticity of such medicinal products. The legislative proposal shall lay down the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, the provisions on the establishment, management and availability of a repositories system which will contain information on the security marks and allow for the verification of authenticity as well as the identification of medicinal products and infringement provisions for the implementation of this Delegated Regulation of the European Commission. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179159	Thank you. So nothing, then we'll go straight to the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues here we have a very short proposal, the Final Proposal for a Commission Regulation supplementing the Parliament and Council Directive by laying down detailed rules for security labels on the packaging of medicinal products for human use. The draft law before us has been adopted in accordance with the current EU directives on medicinal products for human use. The important Act on Medicinal Products to ensure effective, quality, safe medicines as a product of particular importance for human health determines the process of testing and placing on the market, production, labelling, qualification, classification, transport, quality check, supply, advertising, supply of medicinal products and surveillance of medicinal products. This legislative proposal shall ensure the implementation of this delegated act. Commission Delegated Regulation 2016/161 of 2015 supplementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules for the safety markings on packages of medicinal products for human use which prescribes measures to prevent the introduction of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal supply chain by requiring certain medicinal products for human use to be placed on the packaging of certain medicinal products for human use as defined by the unique identifier and protection against opening in order to allow the identification and verification of the authenticity of that medicinal product. This is very important since there are a number of counterfeit drugs that are trying to get through, which are actually through different forms and ads, our citizens actually take, and throughout the EU, especially if they are more accessible and cheaper, and they do not know that they are counterfeit and that they do not actually have the medical means that they should have. This law also lays down the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, the provisions on the establishment and management and availability of a repositories system which will contain information on the security markings and allow for authentication, identification of the medicinal product as well as infringement provisions. The legislative proposal contains provisions on the establishment, management and availability of a repositories system which will contain information on security markings and allow for authentication, identification of medicinal products. The costs of the repositories system shall be borne by the marketing authorisation holders for the medicinal product bearing the safety markings. The repositories system is established and managed by the Croatian Organisation for the Authentication of the medicinal product or by the shortened HOPAL established by manufacturers and marketing authorisation holders whose medicinal products bear the safety markings. The legislative proposal also identifies the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the supervision of the implementation of the delegated Regulation and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices for the Control of the Repository. What is important The HDZ Club will support this bill since this prescribes a measure to prevent counterfeit drugs from being introduced into the legal supply chain, which is very important for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179161	We're moving on to an individual debate now. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179162	Thank you very much. Here, so we're talking about medicines, regulations, labels and means that control itself, but the pharmaceutical industry is influential, of course these lobbies are influential, of course that the triba accept what it means to identify themselves how many medicines that are not, how much they come in and how many humanitarian and other substances that are not used can't say much about it. However, I will use this time of my individual speech to point out what is not good, since the secretary of the ministry is a disaster at the moment in the Republic of Croatia, that people simply do not have health services anymore, they do not have the opportunity to have health services, and this directive we will accept, we will accept it, of course, that it will influence it. As far as we're going to control it and as far as Croatia is concerned, I don't have any information, maybe the tribalo is to give the explanation statistically, how far up until now are the fake medicines with fake tags, if there's even any of this statistical or real this one that's been caught with these fake drugs with fake tags. I'm more concerned personally, so you personally call me what happens with fake drugs that are a danger to our people's health, I'm concerned about the non-functioning of absolute health care in the Republic of Croatia, which concerns me. I'm worried about people calling me, parents who have children 18 years old that for a magnetic resonance, their children have to wait two years, that they have to look for a relationship, that they have to look for, that's what worries me. I'm worried if they're repeating again, Croatia has an excess in its structure, the counties are excess, this streaming water heater full of stones has destroyed Croatian health, full of stones. It all came down to the store. I repeat, I regret what in my Split, another hospital of importance in the Republic of Croatia half a million people and even so much more during tourism goes to that hospital, part of Herzegovina, the Lithuanian area, Tomislavgrad, we have a problem with Kninska hospital, Croatian pride veteran, not that there are no medicines but no more for wages. Medical personnel living in Knin traveling examples from Sinj or other parts have no travel expenses. Doctors, professional staff working in laboratories in China, Croatian Pride, Veteran and General Hospital. Why? Is the county taking care of it, the county's responsible they're founders, they don't care about the team. They don't care how to win the election, they don't care. The county has come down to such an organization that they have employees no longer alive, and so many powers are given to the harm of what they should be worried about, and this is about health homes as founders, hospitals, literally hospitals left without drugs, no medicines. That's the problem. Only in Dalmatinska Zagora is the hospital in Knin that could relieve the Split hospital, which would give some legitimacy and Knin as a city. And I will personally, when this was proposed by the Government for Vukovar, propose for Knin to assume jurisdiction over the state, i.e. to be the founder of the state and the state to cover the problems created by the county. It's not the people of China's fault, it's not the people's fault that there are no drugs, it's not the people of the Dalmatian Fire because of the Knin hospital. It's the founder of the county, and you're still in charge of it. Of course local self-government or mayor of Knin or someone should not talk about it publicly, but if he is not good with the mayor and prime minister he must come. The mayors must come bowing, they must, because they will simply boycott projects, and the hospital is a matter of survival for our people. So this is what we tell the people, our people, the survival of the people. Knin was empty, Knin was the youngest city a few years after the Storm, an empty city because we don't have medical services, doctors leaving the hospital, barely covering the costs, the principal barely covers the costs. So is Split. In Split, people wait in columns, medical staff are burdened with heavy pressure, people go to other countries our doctors. That's why we have what we have today that 5% of GDP comes to us from those people that we moved out. For what? Because without a party card, without calling someone for your child, you can't come to a doctor on time. I guarantee you, I'll give you three examples. Imagine if someone told that child of yours for 18 years had a health problem for the magnetic resonance of the tribute waiting 18 months for the child. It's a reality. So I would ask you colleagues and colleagues because this is what the people listen to and we speak for the people, and the people are aware that I speak for real. Hospitals literally run out of drugs, literally. I have proposed 10 million kuna amendments for Kninska and Splitska Hospital, so beds, to see the beds will be sunken with chairs. Bed broke his leg, there are patients lying in a Split hospital in another hospital of importance in the Republic of Croatia, but colleagues and colleagues from that region or from other parts, I see no reason why you do not suggest it, so I would vote. I was in your role, I was also in the majority and I didn't vote for the budget because I asked for the Dalmatian Zagora and the remaining undeveloped areas of a certain amount, I didn't support being part of the majority myself. I don't know anyone who wasn't a part of the majority then voted on the budget, and from that moment on I wasn't even a part of the majority. Therefore, I would ask you to be responsible if you are watching these meetings of the Government, I am looking from in my Split-Dalmatia County there are two years, I am now looking at the Vukovar released projects, but Croatia is empty. I know what the campaign is, and I know that everybody wants to win the election, and I know that when you're in the campaign that you're scared, I see that the top of the government is in fear. But fear is given by God and good fear. But let us help the people in this area, that the people may remain; the people are important. It doesn't matter that here in Parliament, Miro Bulj will be sitting here for the next four years or someone else, but while we're here, let's just give it to the people to survive in that area. So if the county takes care of the homes of health, they're falling apart and the hospitals are falling apart, and we've strengthened them. We created feuds in our small country that goes under 4 million people. The problem is that hospitals will run out of drugs, the people will not be checked out because they haven't called for specializations in these areas, so we have burned ground. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, of course everything that is, about medicines because it is a matter of health, should be marked both by the deadlines and who knows what is coming and what is entering the Republic of Croatia, however, health is currently a key problem in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know, which one of you isn't someone, if someone didn't call you if you could help, my child couldn't get in line, my wife was sick, my... Because it's been for years. That's how it's been waiting for years, for years. And on what they're all... politicians to call if he can get him to go before the checkup. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that the policy of the mayor, the county and the central government, the esteemed secretary? Is that Croatia's policy? No, we have the same people. We're the same people, we're few. There's a few of us. We're empty. It saddens me when I come down to your neighborhood where you came from. There's no one here. There's no one in a very.../incomprehensible/... very few people. The most beautiful landscape on the globe. Empty, what little old folks... This little old man that's left down there and it's gone to nursing homes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's an empty village. You know it when you get here. Empty. Because of a policy that isn't even, it's not fair, we don't have health services. People don't have opportunities... nursing homes, the young ones are gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And hospitals run out of drugs, no drugs. And who knows what kind of medicine we're going to get because we won't be able to have any different, who knows who. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179163	Okay, since we don't have anyone else to answer, I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions come. The final proposal for a law implementing a delegated Regulation of the EU Commission of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the EU Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules for safety codes on packagings of medicinal products for human use, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 596. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 116 for and 6 abstentions were passed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179166	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Honored MPs and representatives. As pointed out above, we have two final drafts of the law ahead of us today, or in front of you. The first is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Offer Act and the second is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Alternative Investment Funds Act. Both laws were held at a parliamentary debate and at its 14th session held on 20 September 2019 HS reached a conclusion adopting one and the other draft law amending and supplementing the law. Let me remind you, as far as one and the other laws are concerned, they are in line with the accession of the EU and the fully amended legislative legislation is then divided that part of the business on open investment funds and alternative investment funds and are completely delimited these two laws, which is more so because the weight of doing business under one law and another is different. As far as this first Open Investment Funds Act is concerned, it was in May 2016 due to the further need to comply with the EU's legislation, I'm sorry, I was running a little late so I'm bloated. It has been harmonised and fully passed a new law, and as regards alternative investment funds, its amendment was in March 2018 and it is a whole new law. Which is why I'm now proposing to remind this, uh, these amendments to one and the other legislation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The securitisation regulation, i.e. it is under no. The EU's 217/2402 Parliament and Council adopted on 12 December 2017, and in this sense the regulation itself applies in EU legislation, and therefore it will be necessary to bring our regulations in line. It is important to stress that this Regulation has amended the so-called The UCITS 4 Directive which has been transposed into the applicable law and since this Regulation applies from 1 January, as I said in order to comply with the acquis, the EU needed to amend the addition of those applicable laws. In this regard, as I pointed out at the first reading, I would reiterate that it is very important to know that, in the Republic of Croatia, we do not currently have a legal framework concerning securitisation operations, and in the next period, it is envisaged to adopt a special law implementing the Securitisation Regulation, meaning these provisions, are the very provisions of the Securitisation Regulation relating to the funds and the work of the funds only in their segment, and otherwise the whole Securitisation Regulation provides for the adoption of a specific law which, in addition to the implementation of these provisions, will also be laid down by the bodies responsible for its implementation in terms of supervision and the supervision process of supervision and supervisory measures, cooperation with other bodies and other national specificities. As regards these completed draft laws, both in one law and in another, the management companies shall be empowered to carry out operations called repairers’ jobs, or they may actively manage the portfolio included in the securitisation on a daily basis. Of course, if such jobs are delegated to them. They are also subject to additional management obligations... a securitisation in terms of carrying out an assessment of the impact of exposure to securitisation on the interests of investors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, administrative sanctions have been prescribed by the supervisory authority, in this case it is specified HANFA, and in the event of breach of the provisions laid down by the Securitisation Regulation, which adapts to Croatian business practice and experience or our frameworks within the Republic of Croatia for serious violations of fines. Furthermore, the draft law contains amendments and additions that represent harmonisation with other regulations, thus eliminating the shortcomings in the existing legal norms which have therefore been observed in practice so far, which will contribute to the uniforming of procedures and legal certainty. In this respect, as regards this first law, enforcement, which is the same norm, is almost the same in the second, compliance with the provisions of the Capital Market Act adopted in July 2018, means after the adoption of this law, and since the Capital Market Act is a roof law which covers these areas, it is necessary to comply with the standards laid down in this law with the roof law, that is, the Capital Market Act. Then there are the harmonisations in relation to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, the Law on Alternative Investment Funds, and the General Administrative Procedure Act. I would like to remind you briefly, as I also pointed out during the first reading, as regards the Capital Market Act, the harmonisation refers to the conditions for a member of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board, and then to the assessment of the procedures, conditions and legal consequences of obtaining a qualifying share and to the distribution of funds. As regards the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, the draft law contains amendments and amendments to the provisions for the purpose of horizontal harmonisation with this law regarding the authorisation to manage voluntary pension funds. Since the Voluntary Pension Funds Act provides for the possibility for a management company to manage and pension funds should be prescribed that the management company may do so provided that approval is made in accordance with the provisions of the Voluntary Pension Funds Act, thereby eliminating the legal gap and the possibility of different interpretations which we currently have based on applicable rules. The draft law also provides for horizontal harmonisation, as I have said with the Alternative Investment Funds Act of the Management Company, as a paper on the obligation to invest part of the capital in liquid assets. To date, this was only an obligation in the management of alternative investment funds, which is not proportionate in view of the size and significance of the assets under management and the risks to which the management companies of this management company were exposed and the perceived lack had to be corrected or harmonised. I would just remind myself, as I presented this data and last time according to the HANFE data in 2018, the total net assets of open investment funds with a public fund amounted to 19.1 billion kuna and the net assets of alternative investment funds of 3.6 billion kuna. Finally, the draft law contains amendments and additions in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and in the light of all the procedures carried out by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency under this law in legal proceedings. In relation to the text of the first-reading bill, and in order to improve its provisions and greater clarity in this final draft of the law, certain additions and nomotechnical and linguistic corrections have been made, and following the comments of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament and of the proposal of the body of the state administration. For example, I'm going to name a few such changes here. For the sake of clarity of the supplement, the term ‘candidate’ is complemented and, in the words of the associate, the applicant is added instead of the applicant for authorisation. Since the applicant is a supervisory board of the company and as regards the conditions for a member of the management board, the pension company is also added since the operation of the pension company is also comparable to that of the management company. In addition, part of the conditions for the performance of a member of the administration shall be added by the associate of the candidate or member of the administration, since a member of the management board may be a person who, at any time during the course of his duties, fulfils the condition that he is not an associate of a person convicted of a criminal offence for which he is prosecuted under official duty. As regards the tasks of the Reception Board, provisions concerning their proposals to the Supervisory Board concerning the reception of senior management, the Head of the Supervisory Office and the Workers who have an impact on the exposure to the risks of society have been introduced. The final part of the infringement provisions is in line with the normative part of the text of the law, and a clearer and more precise description of the individual offences is given in order to respect the principle of the determination of the entity of the part. As far as the Alternative Investment Funds Act is concerned, I would just repeat it, as I said in March, it's completely, since 2018, a whole new law. Basically, the law regulates the conditions for the establishment, business and termination of the company's work on the management of alternative investment funds and alternative investment funds and supervision of their operations. It also provides for conditions under which a management company from another Member State or a third country may carry out its activities and/or trade the shares of alternative investment funds managed in the area of the Republic of Croatia. As regards this final proposal, the same as I mentioned earlier and for the previous law, the securitisation regulation is the basis for the amendment. Furthermore, the management company can manage the funds established under specific laws provided that HANFA, from the HANFE age of management, as prescribed for example for the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, this law, as of 2018, is set out in Article 16 of the Code, and here it is harmonised to allow that management possibility to be allowed. Furthermore, in terms of these compliances that I mentioned earlier in previous laws, so also here in the General Administrative Procedure Act are harmonised certain standards related to the conduct of HANFE. The difference between the final draft of the law and the first reading are the same technical adjustments, as I mentioned to the previous law in accordance with the observations of the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament and of the Authority of the State Administration, and in this respect the concepts of a common qualified investor and a qualified venture capital investor are complemented where there is a difference between those two categories of qualified investors. An ordinary and qualified investor may invest in all alternative investment funds, while a qualifying venture capital investor may also invest in alternative investment funds with a private offer which have a risk capital fund strategy set out in Appendix 4 to Delegated Regulation 231 of 2013. Furthermore, in the part of the conditions to be applied, the members of the administration, as well as in the section of the reception committee's operations, are identical with those of the amendment as in the previous law. An additional part of the winding-up provision has also been made in such a way that the liquidator of the closed alternative investment fund with legal personality other than HANFE must also inform the depositary of the decision to liquidate, in order to stress that the alternative investment fund in liquidation is to be held independently of the form of depositary. So the depositary is the bank to which the Investment Fund has entrusted the assets of the fund to be stored and stored in a special account. In conclusion, as well as in the previous part of the infringement provisions, the norm has been arranged to respect the principle of the determination of the being of the act. In the meantime, I have seen two amendments that have been submitted here, since I am not sure whether they are technical or essential, of course the Government will adopt it, but if it will require prior consent from the government itself, we will succeed. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179167	We have one replica, dear colleague Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179168	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. My replica goes in the same sense as it was in the first reading, I think it's the key to all of these laws when we talk about funds, it's the control system, because of everything that's been going on in recent and further history. This is all new in Croatia and if we do not raise HANFA to another higher level and education and technical etc. We may have some problems. The two amendments to Article 7 are also on track. Investment funds law and Article 6. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Funds precisely because certain things are clearly clarified, that it is known where HANFA should be given permission, where HANFA should not be authorised, which these investment funds should do in the course of their registration only for the sake of clarity, I sincerely hope that the Government will adopt these two amendments to the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179169	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179170	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative. Indeed, as stated in the first reading, this essence is that HANFA as a competent authority, as a competent agency in the implementation of all these strong regulations and norms within the meaning of the directives and regulations we take over from the EU should have the appropriate powers and trained personnel who will be able to carry out this quality. I absolutely agree with you, part of their powers are given within the law itself, part through these indirect laws, I mentioned earlier in relation to the securitisation that this will go to a special law where bodies that will also be competent and able to be able to do their work in relation to the very securitisation regulation, or these observations that are made here within the amendment, will also be fully agreed on because it is business that takes place and that really will not require consent from the agency or the HANFA, and that it would not be understood that such things should be completed... and I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179171	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first is the club of HDZ deputies and respected counterpart Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179172	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State Zrinasic. Here we are united as in the first reading of these two laws and these two amendments and additions, and I will only mention that the HDZ Club will support these proposed amendments and additions to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and the Alternative Investment Funds Act. What should be pointed out firstly that the Open Investment Funds Act of 2013 has been fully reformed and that, until then, the existing legislative framework in the area of investment funds has in some way been separated or demarcated so that open investment funds are contained in one law and alternative investment funds in another law. Although our own system and the capital market has not been so developed yet, in fact these are very high-quality preconditions that everything that is going on and what is going to happen can really be very closely and closely monitored. And in this sense, it is also when we have adopted an amendment or a new law on HANFA, and we have also applied some provisions, which is exactly what the secretary of state mentioned, allowing the insurance or securitisation of all procedures, which is why we do not want to put ourselves in a position to get certain actions out of control and then to do what happened during this previous crisis when certain balloons were inflated and when there was a misjudge or create a much better quality investment climate for rating agencies than what was actually happening. As you can see from the first reading, something more significant has not happened to this second reading except here are these tiny details that are now mentioned here, so in that sense, I don't think there's any particular reason to point out some changes to the articles because they haven't been significantly changed. When we talk about the investment fund law itself with a public offering. It has already been mentioned here that it was still applied after these changes that occurred, that the liberalisation of the business so-called business was made possible. The UCITS funds and cross-border cooperation are ensured and a high level of investor protection and the insolvency of the management company is ensured, allowing the development of the fund industry in the Republic of Croatia. This is, therefore, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Alternative Investment Funds Act, which enables these investment funds to actually be able and obligation is to invest a certain amount of assets in liquid assets. Until now, it was only for the company to manage alternative investment funds. As far as the Alternative Investment Funds Act is concerned, we see that this legal framework has actually allowed them to rely on and rely on them, not on the credit ratings so far, and that's what I mentioned, that's exactly this experience that came from the financial crisis. Of course, it is very important that in this concept and control function, here what fellow Shucker mentioned, that the control function of HANFA is greatly strengthened and that at the right time reacts to all possible anomalies that may occur in these virtual spheres that often get out of control unless it is qualityd. It is therefore certain that what will further improve and ensure the business of all entities that are related to this market is by adopting a new Securitisation Act that will in this way really at any time and at any moment be able to control everything that is going on in the capital market, and this will also strengthen the function of HANFA. So, this here, I don't think further clarification is necessary, and here, I say once again, the HDZ Club will support this proposed amendment and addition of the fund laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179173	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Since there are no colleagues, Ivan Lovrinovic, he loses his right to speak, so after him is a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179174	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. You're talking about these two laws. It is a practical alignment with the EU directive and normatively to look at these laws there is practically nothing more controversial than having to bear in mind that, I say, this part of the financial industry is much more developed in Europe than with us. I want to talk about something else, and that's that control instrument. So it's up there by 2006. Croatia had an insurance company surveillance agency and since other non-banking financial sectors started to appear, the HANFA was founded, and the CNB controls the banking sector and what was therefore on the trail of what was happening in the past years, so I also reported for the debate. I think the CNB has one high degree of independence. A bunch of things they don't like pushing towards HANFA, and HANFA is practically about independence and power downgraded to one degree lower than it was by 2012. So today, tomorrow, there wouldn't be some indifference about the many of these funds because it's a job that in Croatia, let's be honest understand very few people dealing with it, however, whoever is looking for capital at the moment when he can't come to the banking sector he reaches the sources that are available to him. Also, whoever invests his assets acts in the same way and therefore the role of an independent regulator, which is very important, and I believe that the Ministry of Finance should change the HANFA Act in the future, that the HANFA should get an even higher degree of independence and that clearly different ones should be made a distinction between the CNB and the HANFA. Why am I saying that? We have recently had a crisis in the largest company in Croatia or practically one of the biggest. We have a Financial Stability Committee with HANFA, CNB and the Ministry of Finance. And then somehow, very strange combinations, transfers, I warned, I did, but what happened happened. I guarantee that HANFA has remained in such an organisational form and has been set up as it was until 2012 to react to the regress bonds because it cannot happen that there is suddenly an increase in the turnover of bonds, and that no one is asking why it is happening and if it is traded with bonds, then it is an obvious sign that there is indifference in society or something like that, there are certain disturbances because the exchange is a means of payment, not a means of payment. So I'm just stating one example, and so whenever these funds are spoken of, I'm just going to feel the need as long as I have the opportunity to warn that this control system needs to be developed. It is even more important to me than certain compliance with EU directives. Because eventually we will have to comply with the directives if we want to operate on the EU's common financial market. However, their knowledge, their knowledge of the functioning of this, not the banking financial sector are frankly speaking far more and far more quality and far better than ours. And that's why we simply have to develop this HANFA as an independent body. The second thing, Croatia is heading towards the euro area tomorrow, at the moment Croatia enters the euro area, the CNB gets a completely different status. And in principle, it will be the HANF that will have one strong power to control a system that has big money. Let's just take here and talk about alternative investment funds, but when we talk about control, then we can't get around the mandatory pension funds and pension funds where we legally prescribe that those who work in Croatia pay 5% of their, 5% of their pension rates are paid into compulsory pension funds, that's now over 100 billion kuna property, over 110 billion kuna. And it doesn't matter just how they behave and how it works, it's money for the future, safe future of future pensioners. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I propose that next year a working group be established to start dealing with amending the HANFA Act, that the head man of the HANFA get, not to be bureaucrats like he is now, but to be a permanent head man who will control how the laws adopted by the High House are implemented and what is most important to control how participants behave in the financial market in the Republic of Croatia. Because we are small, small and one thing that happens to us and we don't notice it in time can pull out quite the tectonic disorders in the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that, since we are going towards the Eurozone, the role of HANFA in the future must be far more important and far more significant. Because look, when it comes to this committee or whatever it's called for financial stability, it's often called the finance minister. Although frankly speaking in that whole story, the finance minister has no tools to control these two things. The executive control of this, so we've legally let the CNB do it and that's what HANFA does, not the finance minister. The finance minister, within the framework of the organisational form of the Ministry of Finance, has other inspections that control some other spheres, above all, about charging, in fact, the collection of budget revenues, both the local self-government unit and the state budget. If this is how we stand by HANFA if we clearly draw the line on what the CNB's obligation is, what's HANFA's obligation and not that in some critical situations a ping-pong begins, we're not competent, you're in charge. And by the time they finish the ping-pong game, these players have already played their game and burned the money. That's why I think we should think about amending the HANFA Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179175	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179176	We move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, second reading, P.Z. No. 664. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179177	Thank you very much. Since the standard is similar to that of the previous amendment for the same reasons, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179178	It becomes an integral part of the law. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Zrinasic, for showing about the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179179	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 664. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. The government accepted it, so it becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 for, 14 abstentions, were passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179195	We move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 807; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning Željko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179196	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Vice President of the Parliament. These amendments to the Law on Construction by an emergency procedure in the legal order of our country introduce an amendment to the Directive on the energy properties of buildings and on energy efficiency. And since the Directive was amended in 2018 this, the current version of the law also needs to be amended. The emphasis is on energy recovery of buildings, energy efficiency building in our country because the whole of Europe recognized that buildings spend more than 40% of total energy consumption. The aim is to make Europe and all its members less energy-dependent but also to better distribute energy or to spend less on buildings and to stay more on choice, or available for production and industry. For this reason, these amendments to the law are also adopted into 12 essential elements. That's how you do it, for example. sets out the obligation to adopt a long-term recovery strategy to support the reconstruction of the national building fund by 2050. The obligation to adopt energy reconstruction programmes, to develop green infrastructure in urban areas and to develop circular space and buildings for the period from 2021 to 2030 is established. More detailed and particularly new concepts are introduced and defined as e.g. Deep renovation, energy reconstruction of buildings, significant reconstruction of buildings, almost zero energy, technical system of building, energy performance contract and the like. Provisions are introduced regarding the standard of building almost zero energy since all new buildings will be built that way from next year. Standards for new buildings for alternative energy supplies and also for highly efficient alternative energy supply systems are defined. Further requirements shall be made for the installation of self-regulatory devices and requirements for automation and building management systems. Next is the promotion of electromobility and establishing standards of infrastructure for charging electrical vehicles in buildings. A regular review of the heating and cooling systems or air conditioning systems in buildings is being set up. The obligation to place at least aggregated anonymous data from the energy certificate database shall be determined for statistical and research purposes and certainly to the owner of the building. The number of obligations and documentation shall be reduced to persons applying for the authorisation of energy certification of the building. The conditions prescribed for the authorisation and the work of persons authorised for certification and persons authorised to control energy certificates shall be harmonised. Foreign auditors from the European Economic Area will be allowed to carry out cross-border project control operations in accordance with another Directive relating to the free movement of goods and services and will be able to demonstrate legal interest in the issue of a building permit for real estate managed by the Ministry of State Property in accordance with Article 71. The Law on State Property Management in order to avoid so far issues in that section. As regards energy efficiency and strengthening the conditions for new buildings and new buildings in our country, it should be noted that 5 public calls for energy reconstruction by the Ministry of Construction as a second-level intermediate body have been published since 2015, thus ensuring the withdrawal of EUR 311 million of grants for the energy reconstruction of buildings. This is about 2 billion kuna of grants, which are directly linked to the investment cycle, an investment wave of 5 billion kuna in construction only on the energy reconstruction of buildings. It is transmitted to 1,400 schools, hospitals, kindergartens and several residential buildings completed or completed. 16,000 apartments in multi-state buildings have already been renovated and spent less energy. Even more plastic to clarify these reinforced provisions can show an example of a hospital in Split, a hospital in Križina consisting of 7 buildings of the age of '57. the years spent at an annual level of around 11.5 million kuna for energy and water consumption, which now comes down to around 6 million kuna a year. So over 5 million kunas are annual savings that this is directly due to energy recovery. On the other hand, such an energy recovery is not only useful because of the energy savings that all users will both feel privately and publicly in their budgets, but it is also about the increased intensity of construction works, the intensity of production for the construction industry and ultimately a better quality living of people in such a space, unrelated to whether it is public spaces or private spaces. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, together with the Ministry of Regional Development as an intermediate body of the first level and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, has just prepared the following calls for the next year for energy reconstruction of buildings, followed by multiple buildings, and will immediately start somewhere at the end of the first quarter and energy recovery and public calls for family homes, all in order to save, all in order to ensure this European direction, which will continue to be intensively supported by European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179197	Thank you very much. Does a representative, a committee reporter, want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179198	Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, the secretary stressed that these changes to the Construction Act touch on certain organisational matters, building management, energy efficiency certificates, but in the Republic of Croatia need more thorough changes in construction, and in particular, I have often said that because of the fact that certain, which is the example of teleoperators in the Republic do not behave as in their own countries, so the base stations are setting up wherever they are by heart. Our citizens have huge problems of disrespect, of disrespecting the spatial plans of local self-government units, and that's one of the big problems. So all of what you're saying, energy efficiency, everything you're saying is essentially at some point we need to think about whether it's a good thing that the teleoperators in the Republic behave the way they don't behave in their countries, and that's how they do great harm to the citizens of the Republic, that's how they do our space, and this one's got the biggest profit in the Republic. HT owned by Deutsche Telekom in the Republic of Croatia has 42% gain or milk while in other countries somewhere below or around 20%. This is arranged outside the EU, if we are calling for equality, it is not possible that it will happen in other EU countries, only in the Republic of Croatia that base stations or antenna pillars are placed wherever they come up with it. And not only that, but we have an example in my area that for two years we've had such a fight for 4-5 years about setting up a base station where overnight in the village of Radosici is at Sinja man's house which is the returnee from Australia Nikola Crnac means for years already fighting the base station that was set up for him by the window, all of his capital that he earned in Australia, all of his capital that earned this one, he invested here and, overnight, at the unfinished house, he won the base station at the window of his grandsons. It took a long fight, protests, police were used, of course police officers were doing their job, but also against us when we were protesting. Until two years ago. Civil inspection, construction inspection said the base station was illegally installed, or 2.g. We have a solution, but that base station is still standing on that house. What do we have left? To take down the bra and knock it down is jeopardizing human health, which guarantees, if medical, health care organization in 2013 said that possible cause of tumor radiation, electromagnetic radiation. What is the effect of imposing radiation on a man? Why is he contaminated, not by his own will, not by his own will, and not by the consent of the neighbors? In us when you're doing something in buildings, you have to fence up a little bit, this, what, you have to ask your neighbor's consent, but here you don't, here is exclusively suitable for tele operators, exclusively. Why? Because they have too much power, the Misetic Dynasty has too much power and the prime minister simply does not have the power to let teletele operators behave as the triba behave. I'm not asking with this speech what it says to ban development in the Republic of Croatia, that it will bring the Republic of Croatia back to the Stone Age, not only that the calf operators behave like in the countries where it comes from. Is that a minimum? If we are EU members, which is regulated in Serbia, Montenegro, in countries that are not, to us neighbouring countries, which are not in the EU, but the interests are obviously such, the telecom operators are strong advertisers, they have too much influence on family policy, I said caste certain, and that is so. However, why is this man from Australia exposed to such aggression? What's he exposed to? Well, they're not paying you for campaigns in their lobbying, are they? So, all these changes to the secretary, you mention a Split hospital, you mention, to mention a Split hospital where this morning, I said, a man calls, a man that his diet is sick and that he's 18. There is also that for a magnetic resonance, it was ordered in a year and a half, while telesurgeons in the Republic of Croatia set up base stations on hospitals, health homes, schools, kindergartens, no remorse. In my Sinj they have now placed on the chimney of the former bakery, so far in Sinj the largest building has been the bell tower, the church bell tower of the Wonder Lady of Sinj, the monastery, the largest church means, and now this chimney, for what? Is it so much base stations put on that chimney, and in the vicinity of the school, contrary to the GUP because the GUP says I have my limits in meters as far as it has to be, some counties do it in this way, but there's some kind of restriction that it has to be 50 meters away from the construction zone or built, already built objects, right here next to people's houses broom, and now we have this morbid chimney that used to be a baker, now on that bakery, a man came in, bought that bakery and lipo printed those base stations with opposition from people, civil initiatives, petitions, a young family made close to the house, has children, now two fathers, iselite the island, I think they'll stay in Croatia alive, so why we're doing this, why we let us break the spatial plans of the tele operators if we don't have to operate in their own countries. But if, if we privatized our infrastructure, which our people paid for, our fathers and you older, if we allowed them to privatise our infrastructure, we privatise our cookhouse, our connections, the infrastructure of the calf, the telephone, we gave them what goes towards our country, our grandfathers or our own or public area, everything that is ours, they have no obligation, they do not pay for the right of service, nor pay for anything, and of course we have a problem, of course we do not have enough resources for doctors, because the biggest result is that the tele operator in Croatia is Angela Merkel, obviously having too much influence and she is protecting her national interests and she has taken over, of course, the cooperation of our prime minister with Andrej Plenkovic and Andrej Plenkovic, the most important collaboration with Angela Merkel, and what have we now taken over? Gentlemen, what have we come up with? We've come to believe that the largest profit has a telephony operator who doesn't invest in the Republic of Croatia, no, now he's calling for some kind of PG network that's banned, but that's another topic, but here I'm talking exclusively about disrespect, inequality in the Republic of Croatia as well as in other EU countries. The man called me last night, the man who moved from Australia, no longer a man peeking at anyone, all his, Nicolaa Crnac here I name him by name and last name, his whole life worked, a man from another country of Croats, from Bosnia, moved to my town, I'm proud of that man, it attracts, has grandchildren, lives. Imagine the disappointment in that man when he experienced it, which disappointment, all his capital he invested here, protested, tied himself up with chains, then as an ordinary man I gave support as a councilman of the city. For two years we have respected secretaries, two years, the citizen's inspection is this construction inspection she said was illegally set, still standing base stations on Radosic. For what? What are the regulations being broken for? Why isn't this telephony operator acting like he's in his own country where he came from? Is that how they behave in Sweden, Germany, Austria, any other country? They don't act like that and it's a huge problem. We've got the hotspots here even in Varazdin where HDZ held the stands against the base stations. And I did when I gave the law to amend the Construction Act that the base stations must be placed with the building permit HDZ voted against. So we have to do it once, we're just asking the teleopers in Croatia to behave the way they behave in other countries. I know it is difficult to speak against teleoperators if they are powerful, influential, media advertisers, but we ask that the Croatian people be equal in the EU in terms of the functioning of the teleoper. That's part of it. As far as the hospital is concerned, and especially since you mentioned Križine i.e. Part of the KBC is a former military hospital, so my people, my people, my hospital, I was recently my neighbor got hurt, a bed on which she lays in a Split hospital of another importance, broke her leg and put on a chair instead. Why? Are you not going to accept that these hospitals are being invested, but you will accept that millions are being invested in the most modern cars? So buy them yourself, I personally bought the loan vehicle and drive it. And I repeat kids, my parents call me, why they call me, do they think I'm a politician, so I can handle it. And everyone loves their child and everyone wants to have his child... magnetic resonance if he has malignant disease as soon as possible, but order a child for a year and a half on an 18-year-old magnetic resonance. Why? Because teleopers don't pay for what they're trying to tribue a building permit. There are hills in Dalmatia they have di set up base stations, but they have to break through roads, they have to invest in infrastructure, they don't want them, but it's easier to find someone empty old house put there or find someone in the building and set up how they set up. Take a look around Zagreb at how many places people protest because they are not respected, even the GUP of Zagreb is not respected. So why did we allow it, dear secretary? And the organizational parts, now you're talking about building management here, all that matters, but why is teleoperating my key question? Why is it good, why are people protesting, why are people frustrated? Why does a man call me Nikola Black back from Australia last night, why does he call me disappointed in everything, and he was the happiest when he came back to Croatia from Australia after his working life? Why? Why would you allow that? Who has the right to do this to the people of Croatia, who has the right to do so? I don't have any, and I don't have a winch for this chair. I have to go back to my son if there's nothing else but in his son, there's none. And I'm who I am. But why don't we arrange for our laws to behave and teleopers to behave the way they do. Well, this isn't their fatherland or the work of a telegrapher. If they give you a little bit for the campaign, if they bought us the infrastructure, it wouldn't turn out that the SDP here is right that I'm only attacking HDZ. No, telecommunications started privatizing exactly HDZ, and it ended with the SDP, which is the truth that it wasn't now that I was attacking just not, however. In fact, we've given them our infrastructure and they're not paying for the right of service. Well I asked you by law to pay the right of service to private and physical persons... their property, health homes where health homes, local self-governments where local self-government, however this is HACOM suits me and the chief inspector I ask him about Andrija Mikulić, I ask him why the base station is set against the GUP of the town of Sinja on the chimney of the former bakery. He believes that the Ministry of Health has calmed the radiation. I'm not asking you about radiation, but I'm asking you now, Andrija Mikulić, I'm back in business, three months hasn't answered, who am I now tribbing as a parliamentary representative? - The Attorney General? - Yes. Who am I supposed to call to answer? He answered what kind of health ministry my Andrija Mikulic was. You don't know if you have to be and listen to the Misetic Dynasty. I'm looking for your secretary's answer, which is why we don't get any results here at Joy we have a decision of building inspection two years in the second month will be that the base station is illegally set up. Two years with memos. And of course people are disappointed in the Republic of Croatia. So what kind of message is that to our people when a man goes to Australia who's worked all his life in Australia wants to come back here? The man under the window brooms three metres of base station right into his window beating and still hiding some fake chimney what a lipo looks like. So is that a state-of-the-art? Can that happen in Australia? He can't. Why isn't the base station at Joy and elsewhere moved away that we have even from building inspection that it's illegal after pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179199	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. I must say that this year is the second time we have joined the Croatian Assembly to amend the Construction Act. For the first time, we seem to have adopted an amendment to the law in April or May, and now we have been practically in line with the European Directive of 2018, so since 11 December of last year. In that change we had here in the Parliament in May, we talked about simplifying and shortening the procedures for the construction acts to simplify, speeding up their exit from one side, but also how on the list, on the competitiveness of the Croatian economy on the Doing business scale, we would raise the Republic, and we would see that during the first next research and demonstration we would really see how much in this regard the reduction of procedures and simplification of procedures improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy or the speed of exit and the simplicity of the construction permit. On the other hand, we have also defined the classification of buildings in 3 groups that we have changed, and then we have introduced the possibility of digital delivery and production, of delivering projects, we have allowed the designer to collect consent instead of investors, so that by law, these amendments of the law were indeed trying to simplify, to facilitate investors' procedures for obtaining building permits and local permits. What is important to this law, therefore. Harmonisation with the European Parliament and Council Directive of last year, which concerns the obligation to adopt a long-term recovery strategy for i.e. Refurbishment to support the reconstruction of a national fund of buildings that is energy-efficient and decarbonised building fund until 2050. This obligation to adopt a strategy has already taken place by the adoption of the law since 5 years ago. and in accordance with that provision of the law of the same year, the ministry has, on two occasions, adopted, later and brought the Directive into line, it seems to me this year, but now, by amending the law and introducing our legislation into the Directive of this and the regulation of last year, we must approach the amendment, the amendments to the strategy itself. What is important to say, two things per me, which is that for all those applicants, the requirements of the buildings, which have applied for local or construction permits, will be valid by the end of this year, and that the provisions prescribed by this law will also apply for the submission of applications after the New Year, while for the owners and applicants for the issue of local and construction permits for public buildings, that deadline shall be laid down as of 31 December 2018. For the first time, it seemed to me that perhaps from the constitutional point of view it was doubtful that the law was implemented retroactively, so that we would say that this law would be implemented for those buildings, public buildings which, for example in 2018 and 2019, were applied for, for which the application for a local or building permit was submitted, but the Secretary of State told me, therefore, that since it already exists in the existing law, that according to the directive, public buildings had passed two years earlier, then in that sense it was completely, completely understandable. What I would like to say in the end is the importance of construction in the total gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. According to a record issued by the State Statistics Institute, the first 7 months of this year increased the number of building permits by 12.2%, while increasing the number of construction workers by 7.1 for, for somewhere around, the same percentage, which today says that around 101,000 employees in the Republic of Croatia are employed in construction works or 7% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. And given the growth in the volume of construction works in the Republic of Croatia, at this point the construction sector in total GDP in the Republic of Croatia is particicipating with about 5%, it speaks enough about the importance of this sector, therefore it is very important and clear that through legislative measures, through laws and everything that we in HS do in a way propo, this sector is being called upon, especially in the context of the fact that more public investment in the Republic of Croatia, thanks to the European funds of a number of local self-government, is faced with the fact that there are almost no sufficient number of contractors in the competitions that can be reported, because the great intensity of construction is particularly visible in the area where large investments in the port system, where there are a large number of submarines, sea workers and indeed there are a real lack of sufficient number of contractors that could be implemented along the coast, so that the local sector can be achieved through the state-based. Since this is a alignment with last year's regulation that came into force, it is clear that the HDZ Club will fully support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179201	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak – Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179202	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, we have in front of us in the emergency procedure of amending and supplementing the Construction Act, we at the GLAS Club will support it. I have to admit that I feel kind of personally bad when something comes from the ministry that I've worked in a long time, so then I have to sort of attack and talk bad, I feel really good when something comes from the ministry that I can praise regardless of the political options and the rest, I share laws that are technical laws and that work in a way that improves somehow the standard and life of our fellow citizens and this is one of those laws. If I wanted to be mean then I would say so the Directive was 2018, so the amendment and the supplement was made, so you could include it, but it's not right to be rude because I, and somehow and naughty because otherwise I don't think that the directive should always be thrown down with its throat into strawberries, we need to be absolutely aware of what is in the directive, which is good for us, which is acceptable and then put it into our legislation. I, by the way, often know how to use this speaker, and I am happy to use it to talk about climate change, to say what climate change is and to talk about what we need in our legislation, in our lives, in reality, no matter what there are 4 million of us, regardless of what we need to do in terms of Europe and the world, is little to do in order to fight the last directive, and by doing so, the EU has been talking about danger, so it already says that the matter has gotten out of hand and is talking about the fact that the matter is about climate change alarming. This law and these amendments actually speak in the context of it. You can quickly in your fight against climate change, you read it very quickly and see it in construction. So when you go into the building's energy efficiency, whether it's public purposes, whether it's more residential or your family's there, you have a few segments that matter. First what we all see gets a nice facade so it looks nice but it's the least important. The second is that you are actually restoring, the third is that you spend less energy, the fourth is what you see in your own wallet in your own pocket, and the fifth is both by its own action and thus the state through its legislation that subsidies say we are thus fighting climate change. And that's why it's good that we have this law, so it's good to define the things that need to be defined here, and of course there were already strategies that have been made, but the long-term reconstruction strategy for supporting the reconstruction of the national building fund in energy-efficient and decarbonised building fund by 2050 is one of the most important strategies that in the global picture is that Croatia is aware of the fight that should be and the conditions that should be related to climate change and will bring one such strategy for a simple reason, because that strategy and in this way and action plans, and the rest of you are fighting it. There are some conditions and some deadlines to do so. Life does other things. I remember very well the first smart house that was built, a more residential house that was built in the city of Zagreb. When she was made, now not to mention the company that was working or which was the investor, I think at this point that side meter was something more expensive than it was further than it was in other buildings. The people who moved in moved in one of my friends and the first situation they had was like a movie. So there was a big difference in temperature, the one that worked on the smart house system, that is, the smart apartment, which means you're closing the door, that you're turning on the heating, that you're turning on the cooling, like in the movie, the apartment had its own life, they barely got into the apartment, the rollers were coming down, the rollers were going up, and the supplier was in Munich. And now it's been a good day, all day long, until that Munchen guy came. During that time, those malts couldn't get out of the apartment, entered the apartment. It's really like one movie, like one comedy. Today they're suppliers, today it's your normal thing, it's normal for you to have a house or something out of town that you can turn on the heating, turn on the cooling, define some things. So something that was 10 or 15 years ago, so the exception today is normal. And it has to become normal to build energy-efficient buildings, it has to become normal. Why? It cost you in the beginning and it must be fair, you start some things cost something more but it costs you less in the long run. In the long run, when you see these hot summers that we've lost, not at all, any of those transition periods, that you're basically on the 1.5th, burning air conditioning that consumes enormous energy and shuts it down, I don't know about 1.10. So that's how you actually ensure yourself a comfortable life. Here are the legislative frameworks that will define it. They, I'd point them at two more things. One thing is the obligation of the energy reconstruction program. So in Croatia, the largest construction was built there in the 1970s and 1980s, especially when it comes to the sea, it was built with blocks that even between it were combined with the pouring sea sand, which draws on the moisture. The main thing, of course, was made and related to tourism. And that's why it's good to rebuild for a simple reason, not only when you're renting better rents, so you're going to use less energy. That's what needs to be stressed all the time by that energy use. There are two other things that are said in this law also about green spatial planning or the way it is done. Of course when you mention that green spatial planning then everyone recognizes it in a way and ha we'll have a lot of greenery on buildings. That's not it. It's that you, through the location of buildings, make sure you have the most sun, watch the rose winds. And I have to admit, since it's somehow, I'm never going to give up, not at all from spatial planning and what's going on in this vault, in Zagreb they're going to start designing and soon they'll probably be building such buildings. I'll be interested in how much a square meter will cost, but at this point, it's a question of the reality of the price at which all the prices went wild, but that's what they're doing. I would say and point out that in some other countries that have gone one step further is another thing, which is that you by facades, not only have greenness, but also the algae that are partly placed on the facades in terms of the attractiveness of the sun's energy, and then... So it's already developed to an unsuspecting extent. When, to return to the topic of climate change, I was also interested in what Germany was doing. So, Germany and I can't compare at all, and it's all illusory, but you should be looking at what the good ones are doing. What do those who have results do? And in the budget that was for this year, of course the hit topic was climate change and at the top of the budget were energy efficiency in construction, there was a reconstruction of the existing housing fund because Germany of course has also East Germany which has a bit of a helmet for this western Germany and therefore it is good, regardless of what is in the emergency procedure. You can see for yourself that we are relatively little about this debate, regardless, it is good that Croatia has its own legislation. We've had this before, we're just harmonizing with the directive here, but we really need to follow it because you, that's something we can do, that's something we know how to do. It's some new business. So we have a tradition of good builders. We already have fewer workers, so we're using another workforce, but that's something we know. Something that is our tradition, something that is our craftsmanship. And let's develop it further because there's going to be other jobs in that one. When energy efficiency started in construction, then they said, well, what is it, you stick a little syrofoam and a little façade and it's just for some. And people were very hard to decide to start at all because they thought it was some kind of, they started because it was a recession, but it was one serious job. So the theme is that new buildings work on new methodologies and in a new way, and through this you live and spend less. Pay a little more at the start, but you're spending less. The second topic is the reconstruction of an existing fund that is extremely important. So try those who deal with tourism. You can no longer rent an apartment or anything today unless it is air-conditioned. No one will come to you. He's gonna look and he's gonna go somewhere else. You no longer rent the fact that you have a beautiful view of the sea. You rent that people want to be as comfortable as they are in their own home or that they're even more comfortable and then through this sort of thing it's good. And something important, it's important that this law began to promote electromobility and that this law defines the standard of infrastructure for charging electrical vehicles in buildings. So, when you want to have an electric car today, with what really, the auto-industry will continue to develop, you have a charge room problem. By this law, whether it's a little strict or not, it's going to answer the law, so the one who wrote the law, it seems to me that maybe the standard is a little high, but as I've already said we'll support it, but the point is that you in the garages where some public spaces have the ability to fill your electric car. The point is that when someone builds a multi-state building for a larger number of apartments, they have the possibility of filling a car there. Whether electric cars are a solution or not, it will show up for a while. What I'm sure is, I'm sure that electric, electric at all in public transport is a solution and that electric cars are certainly a solution for cities for, because that way you have less exhaust gases, you have less distances, so it's not a problem, where your charge room or not, you can fill in everything else and it needs to be looked at in that context and it's good that we have in the legislation that defines it. Electric cars could be discussed from different levels, which means handling, then battery, or battery, but that's not the subject of this law. This law has been defined and said and through the legislative frameworks it has set out to promote and define the obligation in garages to build chargers for electric cars. So it's one special place that's specifically marked. And that's where you can, so the impactor, there's another problem, but maybe it's a good point. When someone builds a building, they go to HEP for their previous electrical consent and then they have to get finished. If you have a charger for an electric car, of course it's more electricity consumption. With this, therefore, through this previous energy consensus and ultimately, it should not be punished in the pocket to hit these investors but should be one of the measures to encourage them, but it is some sort of horizontal network of all the laws. It's very important that these horizontal networks connect with each other. So, as I was saying earlier, we at the GLAS Club will support these changes and additions. We are absolutely affirmative of them in the context of all of us who need to fight and show that it is important for us to leave this planet to our children as much in some state as it is today and not in a worse state. We need to talk about this, and this law, when it comes to construction, creates conditions and that Croatia says in this global picture that. We have legislation that we have clearly said that we recognize the problem of climate change and that through construction and laws that are tied up and that we will allow in real life to really happen situations and that we have buildings that are better, but that we also have new jobs in the economy. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179203	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Bernarda Topolko will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179204	The Honored Vice-President HS, the Honored Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, is currently under the current Construction Act of Design, Construction, Use and Maintenance of Construction, as well as the implementation of administrative and other procedures, in order to ensure the protection and arrangement of space in accordance with the regulations governing spatial planning, as well as the provision of basic requirements for construction and other conditions prescribed for the buildings under the law and regulations in question and specific regulations. Subject law transposed in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 2010. on the energy efficiency of buildings. That Directive is amended by the adoption of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018. amending the Energy Properties Directive and the Energy Efficiency Directive. It is precisely in order to bring national legislation into line that it is necessary to amend and supplement the Construction Act. These amendments and additions establish the obligation to adopt a long-term recovery strategy to support the reconstruction of the national building fund in energy-efficient and decarbonised building fund by 2050, and the obligation to adopt an energy reconstruction programme, a green infrastructure programme in urban areas, and a circular space and building management programme for the period from 2021 to 2030. Furthermore, standards are defined for new buildings with regard to alternative energy supply systems and also for high efficiency alternatives to energy supply systems. For example. for requirements for systems relating to total energy properties, correct installation and appropriate dimensioning, configuration and supervision of technical systems of buildings requirements relating to the setting of self-regulatory devices, requirements for automation and building management systems. The law is promoted, the law promotes electromobility, and standards are established for the infrastructure to charge electric vehicles in buildings where it is legally regulated that for new buildings in every 5 parking spaces at least one charge must be placed. In fact, we are aware that we have more and more, of course not enough, electric cars, there are lots of motorcycles, bicycles, even romobiles, and then we need to get rid of these connections for filling them. For all buildings whose purpose does not include housing, but there are more than 20 parking spaces, at least one place to charge should be set up. It is necessary to provide the investor or the owner of the real estate to meet the requirements. This law also introduces provisions relating to the standard of building almost zero energy, namely a building that has very high energy properties, which is covered by sources from renewable energy sources that can be placed on or near the building. What is important is to simplify works, regular reviews of the heating and cooling systems or air conditioning systems in the building, and to reduce the number of obligations and scope of documentation to persons who apply for authorisation for energy certification of buildings. The conditions prescribed for the authorisation and the work of persons authorised for certification and persons authorised to control energy certificates shall also be harmonised. Foreign auditors will be enabled to carry out cross-border project control operations in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive and the Internal Market Services Directive. Finally, the law introduces significant changes in the daily application of the law and represents further energy savings measures. The club of HNS representatives will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179205	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and a new policy on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179206	Thank you, Vice-President HS, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, and our club will support this legislative proposal, but as there is always one proposal, I will try to say what seems to me to be somewhat controversial about this legislative proposal, not in terms of content, but all the circumstances concerning all the implementation of the EU Directive in the field of technical law, so here is the law. Namely, when we talk about urgency, the urgency of the procedure of this law is an old sentence that says "there are no urgent things, there are only people who are late", we are not here, of course, because we were too much and careless and we didn't want to implement some things before in Croatian legislation, but simply because in directives, norms, standards, and I will take this Germany as an example, in fact in my opinion, I think that the German mother of all norms is, is that when we talk about technique, there is one history of norming, the history of standards, the history of technical tradition. The Republic of Croatia has a history, but it is a sequence of many circumstances, and we see today how many of our companies, our companies, who have been timely and gigantic in the field of technical, technical, technical technologies and technical professions, have lost this continuity and now we are trying to follow everything that is happening in developed countries and what they prescribe as norms for several reasons, the first basic reason precisely because of this tradition of their long tradition, realize how things can be improved. Another very important reason is the protection of people's health and the protection of people's lives, and this is from the point of view of passing laws and regulations extremely well welcomed by the public because, indeed, it is starting with protecting itself from, say, fires, and to the protection of health in terms of the appearance of legionnella or some other diseases, and until then protecting the stability of buildings, and it is very welcome because, as human life says, there is no price and, of course, there is protection of the environment and nature as one of the necessary conditions for future technological development today, because also a colleague Mrak-Taritash mentioned climate change will not occur tomorrow they happen today. And what's crucial as the fourth reason developed countries do that is, of course, economic, economic interests. Developed countries, we need to see this to say vividly below the hood, developed countries when they put standards, standards always behind those standards, behind these standards comes the installation of certain elements that enable these standards, whether they're about fire valves or something else, but they're always usually their products that come to us later, so we're installing them into our construction and, of course, that their economic interest is legitimate. Now, after that story we come to this law, what's the problem with passing this law? This law is good, it has good ambitions, but as far as they're in the Republic of Croatia are concerned and how much we're actually putting ourselves at risk by introducing some norms, we're becoming ridiculous ourselves. I'm not going to say the whole name of the company or as it's already called, I'm just saying one part, it's some egg, today you can get the certificate through the egg, I see 399.00 kn energy certificate building, we've implemented the norms, we've introduced that necessary certificate, you can't rent and sell the facility today if you don't have a certificate, but there's an offer for 399.00 kn. Of course, there's a sacred market many swear to, which says you can't define a minimum price. Why would I bring that up? Well, here are the key points of this law that I find extremely important. This law regulates the following, establishing the obligation to adopt a long-term recovery strategy to support the reconstruction of the national building fund in energy-efficient and decarborised building fund by 2050, establishing the obligation to adopt a programme of energy reconstruction of buildings, a programme for the development of green infrastructure in urban areas, and a programme for the development of circular space management and buildings for the period from 2021 to 2030, extremely important documents, which I will return to only a little later. Point one of the same in the reasons, the electrical mobility is promoted, and it sets up a standard of infrastructure for charge of electric vehicles in emobility buildings. To greet, residential buildings are defined as having to have more connections, those that are not for residential one connection, but look at little what is happening now in concepts, and if only one product, with which we as Croats can be proud, in concepts of the development of electric cars look what is happening, power is not a problem, we have a car, presented on the world market, 1914 I mean horsepower, 1914 horsepower, who needs such power to drive, I don't know. But what's the problem? The problem is range and the problem is being filled and this is exactly what this law allows, but if we go in the direction that electric cars, I am sure that, that this is just now an interrogation as alone, the owner of a single company that is extremely successful in doing this says this is just an examination of the limits, but if we make car chargers worth EUR 2 million, then we, so that we in the buildings are going to make someone chargeable for, that he's a full car worth 2 million, and the residents in the building are going to live who can barely make ends meet, you realize that we don't come into conflict with our own, with our logic and the preservation of the environment and all that we want. But back to what is crucial in this law, as in all laws, and in this law, it is said that there is no need for additional means to implement, but how, art. 47a. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Ministry, adopt a long-term strategy for the reconstruction of the National Fund of Buildings by 2050, not read all of the details, but what it must contain, a review of the National Fund of Buildings, the establishment of cost-effective, cost-effective access to reconstruction of buildings depending on the type of building and climate zone, taking into account when relevant driving points in the life cycle of the building, policies and measures to promote cost-effective construction of buildings including gradual deep renovations, and to support targeted cost-effective recovery measures, the review of policies and measures aimed at segments of the national building fund with the worst properties, the dilemma of the interests of the employers and the tenants and the lack of markets, and the description of relevant national measures contributing to the mitigation of energy poverty, policies and measures aimed at all public sector etc. Here's to trying to say it the most picturesquely, there are about 35 hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, which are general, which are clinical centres, so let's just do one really qualitative analysis of these consumers, hospitals are large energy consumers and make significant savings in them, but not that these analyses go through the Eggs, but that these analyses are actually made of quality and from the point of view of the profession applicable. The hospital system is in, in big trouble anyway, so if we make a significant step there, then this bill will make sense, and then all of what we're actually bringing here, what we're going to vote on tomorrow is going to make a lot of sense, if it doesn't make sense then I don't even see why we're bringing a strategy if we're just going to write it on paper, we're saying someone's going to do such a serious job, and how is that possible? I think that somewhere I read that there are 11,000 public buildings in the Republic of Croatia, so look how significant savings would be if the provisions of this law were applied to these public buildings. I am aware that I went beyond the scope of this legislative proposal, which, again, I stress, should be supported, of course, but if we all don't take this job seriously together, if it doesn't go towards those who need to do this job seriously, then people need to be hired, they should be paid by some reasonable price because each kuna invested in the analysis can be quite returned, then we can, we can talk about, successfully, the successful application of this law. One state-owned company, I'm not going to name it, it was spent, I think it was water, it was spent annually, it had an account of 12 million kuna I mean water, on one station, now you know what company it's about. They hired a company to find out what the problem is. They wrote in the contract that a certain percentage of the company's savings would get, when they did, then, then the state-owned companies said, so where we went to sign it, that money could be left to us because they saw how much it was actually, how much savings were actually achieved in that sense. So, with a serious approach, we will be able to apply this law with serious work and then really these ambitious goals that we have outlined, either until 2050 or 2030. to achieve, and ultimately, these results can be recorded very measurablely, which is in the savings of kunas that can be achieved specifically in the public sector. We will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179207	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179208	Final proposal of the Law to amend and supplement the Law on Construction, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. number 807. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 103 for, 5 abstentions and 9 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179209	We move on to the following: - Final proposal for a law confirming the Convention on road transport, second reading, P.Z. No. 813. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed secretary of state at the MUP, Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Representatives and gentlemen, in order to establish an additional international legal framework for facilitating and developing international transport, to increase road safety, in particular the recognition of national and international driving licences issued by the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Road Traffic, etc. 1949 Geneva Conventions Namely, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Geneva Convention has been updated due to the non-recognition of national and international driving licences, as well as the ban on the transport of vehicles with Croatian registration marks on the roads of those States which are parties to the Geneva Convention, while at the same time not party to the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic of 1968. So, as you can see, there are two Conventions on Road Traffic, the Republic of Croatia is a party and has joined the Vienna Convention of 1968, and on the basis of notification of a 1993 succession, and at the time of accession to the Vienna Convention, which, more recently, was signed almost two decades later, was in the absence of the purpose and the need to join an older convention. However, the Geneva Convention on Road Traffic currently has 98 member states, so parties, while the Vienna Convention has 79 countries of parties. At the same time, 55 Member States are both members of the same convention, of which 21 EU Member States. It therefore happens that in those countries which are members of the Geneva Convention only, international and national driving licences issued by the Republic of Croatia under the rules of the Vienna Convention in those countries are not recognised. This was observed in the conclusion and certain bilateral agreements with some countries where the procedure lasted for a very long time because it needed a special evaluation for the reason that the Republic of Croatia is not a member and the Geneva Convention on Road Traffic of 1949. Among the countries that are members of the Geneva Convention alone are some large non-European countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia, Argentina, New Zealand, Japan, so in some of these countries there are many Croatian citizens and owners of Croatian driving licences that then go through a long-term driving licence process in these countries, so in order to facilitate participation in road traffic and these masses of non-European states, the issue of the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Geneva Convention has been raised. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this law be passed by a hasty procedure for the reasons set out in Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, since it therefore approaches an international contract which thus becomes an integral part of Croatian national legislation. The implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the state budget and the body responsible for law enforcement shall be the Ministry responsible for internal affairs. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179211	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be spoken by a respected representative of Stipo Sapin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179212	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State, Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. Today, in the procedure, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Road Transport, which shows that the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Road Transport. The same assessment of the situation and the objective that this law seeks to achieve are those issues which will be regulated by the adoption of this law. The 1949 Convention on Road Traffic (hereinafter referred to as the Geneva Convention) was prepared at the UN Conference on Road and Motor Transport held in Geneva on 23 August until 19 September 1949 and opened and opened for signing on 19 September 1949. The Geneva Convention was opened for signing on 31 December 0149 for all UN member states and states invited to attend the UN Conference in road and motor transport, while since 1 January 1950 it has been open to accession to previously mentioned countries which have not signed the Geneva Convention and those countries which have declared the economic and social council more acceptable. Following the model of the Geneva Convention, the UN Road Transport Conference in Vienna prepared and opened for the signing of the Convention on Road Traffic on 7-8 November 1968 (hereinafter referred to as the Vienna Convention) on 8 November 1968.). The Republic of Croatia is a member of the Vienna Convention based on notification and succession. At present, 98 Member States of the Geneva Convention and 79 countries are members of the Vienna Convention. Of that number, 55 countries are also members of the Vienna Convention, including 21 EU Member States. Furthermore, the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and the Argentina Republic are the most prominent examples of the Member States of the Geneva Convention that are not members of the Vienna Convention at the same time. The road transport issue referred to above has not been adequately regulated in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and a significant number of Member States of the Geneva Convention. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Geneva Convention has been updated due to the issue of non-recognition of national and international driving licences issued in the Republic of Croatia as well as the ban on the transport of vehicles with Croatian registration marks on the roads of those countries which are members of the Geneva Convention and are not members of the Vienna Convention at the same time. The difference between Vienna and the Geneva Convention is evident among other forms of national and international driving licences, which is in practice apparent in a way that international driving licences issued in the Republic of Croatia under the rules of the Vienna Convention are not valid in countries which are exclusively members of the Geneva Convention. Following this, I believe that accession to the Geneva Convention would greatly facilitate Croatian citizens and representatives of Croatian companies and stay in the respective countries, taking into account the growing number of Croatian citizens' questions about this topic. This law confirms the Convention in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Geneva Convention would set up an additional international legal framework for facilitating and developing international road transport, as well as an increase in road safety through the establishment of standard and uniform traffic rules among States Parties. For this purpose, the Geneva Convention contains provisions relating to traffic regulations, signs, motor vehicles signalling and trailers in international transport, motor vehicles drivers in international transport, as well as provisions applicable to bicycles in international transport with the aim of ensuring harmonisation of international road transport. The part of the Geneva Convention shall also consist of contributions which shall be further regulated and complemented by provisions relating to the definition of motor vehicle and bicycles, the advantage of passage, the registration number of vehicles in international transport, the different marking of vehicles in international transport, vehicle identification codes in international transport, technical conditions relating to the equipment of motor vehicles and trailers in international transport, dimensions and mass of vehicles in international transport, the conditions to be met by motor vehicle drivers in international transport, the driver’s licence model, its dimensions and the model of an international driver’s licence. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for the adoption of this Law in a single reading is found in Article 207. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because it is a law which is confirmed by the Convention in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. By adopting this law, the premise for the fulfilment of formal legal assumptions that the Convention for the Republic of Croatia would enter into force. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts in which the State and formally express its willingness to be bound by an international contract and the fact that amendments and additions to the texts of international contracts are not possible at this stage of the procedure. I believe that the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Road Traffic should be adopted because it would make it very easier for Croatian citizens and representatives of Croatian companies to stay in the Member States and address road traffic in an adequate way in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the Geneva Convention. Certainly, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Road Traffic, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179213	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Stjepan Curaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179214	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try the most plastic, the simplest thing to say is, so we're not talking about road traffic conventions here today, one so-called. Geneva Convention, second is Vienna. What does she actually decide? They regulate certain ad let's say formal preconditions that we need to meet for transport in any form of public transport from bicycles to cars, from registration, from traffic permits, from driving licences, onward, appearance, way of getting, all of these conventions... And then we have two different ones and then he says that in 98 countries there are members of Geneva, and 79 Vienna, Croatia is usually a member of Vienna, and of 98 of them 55 are both. And now I don't know why we didn't go to this problem early, and we've joined it before, or we've introduced that acquis because it's currently 21 members of the EU are also members of one and the other conventions. What does that really mean? It means something that our citizens can understand, it's the very driving licenses where those who know who worked abroad where our driver's licenses that are what they are, you can't rent a car in some of the Member States of the Geneva Convention and even our international licenses that you have to have, so you can't with our driver's license, you have to ask for an international license, and even here you don't recognize, let's say the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, Argentina, etc. We now harmonize with this, harmonize so that our international licenses will be more or less if I have fully understood the values of both countries and everywhere, and especially our people who go will know that they can use it, but I am not repeating not my driver's license this one of us but an international one that will be in accordance with the regulations of one and the other conventions. Of course, it's not just a matter of paper or driver's license, there's also driving cars with our license plates, so... registration tags, and on the tickets that weren't today it was quite impossible even though we have to say the hand to the heart hardly that it was a lot of examples that someone was driving in America, driving there, I don't know by boat, but it probably happened, but these are rare examples. But this part that's more important, I think, actually, that this convention, we're establishing how this international legal framework that we're about to facilitate right now is that international development itself, or participation in international road traffic, and that's what we're getting from this, and that's what we're supposed to tell citizens. So by adopting this law or confirming the Convention, according to our Constitution, we will receive international driver's licenses in all subsequent releases, and you must take them out which will then be worth almost all over the world. So otherwise, all these regulations apply not only to permits, signs, shapes, etc., etc., motor vehicles, trailers and all that you're going to register. So this is something that I think might have come a long time ago, but it's good this way from this... pay phone to tell the citizens that after adopting this really with this new international one, I would only ask that the final secretary of state say when it will take effect in terms of implementation, when it will be possible to get these new permits, issue, or when people will be able to request new international permits that will be or these existing ones that we have just because we are with the fact that we have joined this Geneva Convention. Of course, the HNS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179215	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179216	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on road transport, second reading, P.Z. Number 813. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Convention on road transport. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 117 votes for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law confirming the Convention on Road Traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179217	We are going to the following law, which is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Act on the Protection of Nature, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 810. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mile Horvat. First of all, my colleague Bulj raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179218	Thank you very much. Dear gentlemen, I demand on behalf of the club MOST's independent lists 10 minutes' break in the matter of the Nature Protection Act and these certain changes in the building permit. However, there are certain things being reduced, and I would talk here about nature, about nature protection. Why must Croatian citizens team up to protect nature? Why would Croatian citizens only fight on their own? Why is the Ministry of Environment, all institutions of local, state, against nature? Why in Sinj, in my Glavices, my neighboring place is an exploitation field on the beam? Glavice, the village is the largest village in the Republic of Croatia that has no municipal status. And now instead of creating them conditions of a better life, they don't have a foothold, I've been giving up the amendment, we're creating exploitation fields, and the village of Glavica, the village of Glavica, are essentially a place known for its head cabbage, and there's a smell of this and we already have a miner. Now remember Greda, that Greda is a symbol of Glavica, that Greda is a symbol of surrounding places, Jasenska, Chitluka, all the way to Sinj and now wants to drink that Greda so that someone has exclusive profits and local communities. I was born with a miner, which is what the people of Glavica, the Cetina region, of my... I'm like an activist fighting, which is why people team up in the initiative. We don't give it to Greda and they won't give it, I'm telling them here that you won't drink to Greda because of that local population, there's nothing left except that we've become an exploitation field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] stakeholders. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179219	I'll give you a break, I'll see you at 1 and 10. [[It's 1:00 a.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,10 HOURS]] Here's how our break is over, we'll continue, and now the honest, respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mile Horvat will speak on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179221	I would like to thank Vice-President HS, honourable MPs, distinguished MPs, the amendments to the Nature Protection Act are, are mainly due to the implementation of the action plan for administrative redundancy of the economy. For the purpose of reducing and abolishing the administrative obligations of entrepreneurs, the Ministry of Environment and Energy is in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy during the 7-8 months 2018. has conducted extensive research into our laws. This measure has the basis for the national reform plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The results of these measures have been translated into an action plan for the administrative recovery of the economy in 2019. where the amendment of the Nature Protection Act is, in this sense, as we are discussing today, one of the measures of this plan, set out the numerous meetings and surveys with the shareholders who have met the polls on the issues of each prescribed obligation under the law, so how much time and money they spend on each of the actions under the obligation and for the total obligation of the rank of employees to do so, the time has been later shown as money on how much they spend on sending, printing documents, submission of applications, whether specific companies are involved in the production of projects, sending documentation and submission of applications, etc., so all the details in these analyses have been made. For all it's calculated these cash equivalents as a cost. Then, according to the data provided by the county administrative authorities, the annual number of cases according to the administrative types of requirements was assessed from our information system. The laws in the field of nature protection have not been laid down any broader possibility of unloading, and surveys have been conducted and all obligations are listed in the Nature Protection Act, except for obligations under Article. Article 23 143. The laws on the protection of nature that are subject, so these changes. In the relevant amendments to the construction acts, which is very important, the obligation to determine the conditions of protection of nature for procedures is lifted, while the obligation to issue a certificate remains only for a small number of procedures passing the main assessment of acceptability for the ecological network and for which the environmental impact assessment procedure is carried out. Those obligations shall remain for procedures in protected areas, so as to amend art. 23. applies exclusively to operations outside the protected area. So, proposed amendments to Art. 23. The law repeals the obligation to comply with the conditions of nature protection for all procedures for which an act of construction is to be put in place and the confirmation of the project is only issued for procedures for which the environmental impact assessment procedure is carried out or the main assessment of acceptability for the ecological network, e.g. for the reconstruction procedures of infrastructure systems such as roads, waterways, pipelines, pipelines and other, livestock and other animals, farming sites, etc., when an assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment is carried out and the solution for the operation is not necessary to carry out the environmental impact assessment procedure and that the requirement is acceptable to the ecological network, the conditions of nature protection will no longer need to be established, nor will a project confirmation be established. In addition, the conditions of nature protection are no longer necessary for procedures for which the environmental impact assessment process has been carried out and the main assessment of acceptability for the ecological network, given that they are already an integral part of the solutions obtained in these procedures, but they still need to be certified, e.g. if the procedure for the construction of highways has been carried out to assess the environmental impact or main assessment and a solution on the acceptability of the procedure has been obtained, the main project must only be subject to confirmation, in order to verify that the measures and conditions of the solution are high-quality in the final project documentation, which would be in some way logical. For procedures within protected areas such as national park, nature park, special reservation, strict reservation, regional park, significant landscapes and others, the same obligations remain, so the conditions of nature protection and the floor, nature protection and certification, but it is an art. 143rd in accordance with the provision of Art. 23. in terms of nomotechnics or their procedural alignment. Therefore, the measures for administrative discharge are finally implemented in accordance with the action plan for administrative redundancies of the economy, and according to our assessment, the amount of disbursement for economic operators by this amendment. 23. in terms of less paperwork, etc. around the process is about 650,000 kn per year, representing about 30% reduction in the cost of economic operators in respect of the fulfilment of all administrative obligations under the legislation in the field of nature protection. At the same time, by law, this Nature Protection Act is in line with the new Law on the System of State Administration, which we were certainly obliged to do. The public debate on the amendments to this law was conducted through e-consultation between 12 and 16.11.2019, we changed, we had certain remarks, they did not refer to this article. 23. which is the subject of the amendment, rather than of some other articles and we could not automatically take them into some special consideration. So, this is the essence of this amendment to the Nature Protection Act, and so only Article 23 is changed where we have sought to administratively relieve the economy of taking certain procedures in space, outside protected space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179222	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Curray. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179223	Thank you, Vice President. So very briefly. When we talk about conditions here, maybe what's best known to the public and it's an environmental impact study that's always like an act that's important to any kind of procedure in space. Now what we're doing here, I'm interested in exactly why this study, if I understood correctly, would actually be lifted from the obligation of any coming out of those places that have already been determined that there is no need to apply. So when we talk about this particular article 23, which let's say more administratively disbursed and what's important from this material is that we don't question any level, reducing the level of environmental protection. So in terms of coverage, those actually building permits that go into some coverage of the space where it's supposed to be, that's where it goes, but I'm only interested in these smaller ones that you said in Article 23 if there are any additional documents that need to be adapted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179224	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179225	I thank the esteemed representative Curai. It is therefore essential that those procedures which are in the course of previous evaluations, which have been assessed as acceptable to the ecological network, as amended by Article 23, would be subject to an obligation to establish the conditions of protection of nature which was very complex and more complicated than this previous procedure. So when you had to submit all the documentation in one previous phase then so far we had to do it in the main project, when this was done, in determining the main project, we now don't have to do it if it's out of the protected area, so in a protected area like we said to the parks, etc., other levels of protection still remain the same because we think it's okay. Otherwise 90% of the procedure, the procedure is out of protected space.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179226	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179227	Dear Secretary of State, it is good that this law is going towards speeding up the procedures for issuing building permits and, on the other hand, to protect both nature and the ecological network. What is a key issue and this is the situation on the ground, especially when the particles on which it is planned to be built are located on the edge of a protected area or protected natural, cultural or some heritage and the fact that the burden again falls on the units of local self-government that must then be arranged if it is part of a particle in a building zone and part in a protected zone, it falls on them. So what's he planning to do in that direction to get rid of the grantines and the cadastres, to clear the municipalities and cities of that cost, I think the state should take it upon itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179228	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179229	I thank you, Your Honor, so the question is good, and I can't tell you right now what we're planning to unload that part, but in any case it's the same subject, it should be the subject of discussion and analysis, and then we'll see what measures we should take. But in any case, thinking is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179230	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179231	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the protection of nature as that wealth and resources our people have and at least for the benefit of the Croatian people, it is visible in numerous wounds in the Republic of Croatia, wounds in the ecological region where there has literally been an ecocidal event. I've talked about these many and we can go from Plitvice Lakes, open sewers, we can go down to the Black Hill in Zadar, where there's simply a delay in cost and the European Court has even ruled that Croatia, that it's a toxic waste that needs to be solved, that it can't stand in a populated place Mr. Horvat, I've told you a thousand and poor times, no one cares, and now that the court has ruled then some kind of panic. So the waste mob was working down its own, the industrial cost is in that place, the wounds in many places, the harmful projects in many places and nature protection must be the key to both our sea and our land, which is why we must extend jurisdiction to the sea. And here, when it comes to building permits, reducing this thing, believe me, it's very important and important to work on it, but it's in chaos right now. There's chaos in the room. I believe that nature is what needs sustainable development, means sustainable development for the survival of these people, mostly as a tourist state, and all that is exploited is to be exploited in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the development of the Republic of Croatia which is not, which is not. I, as an activist in 2007, had to fight, I have court proceedings, I am saddened by what was in the salt rocks along the river Cetina in the village of Sukačka rakašica in the mine was intended to postpone the cost of the Long War through Mladne or whatever it was called. We stopped them, but how did we stop them? We stopped, we organized protests, 7 years of lawsuits, roadblocks, eventually it turned out that these costs were poisoned by the foundation of our people. The expense of the river Cetina's tributary is the greatest treasure. It's all about exploiting our ends, everything. About Plitvices, sewerage, 2 million people come in a year, sewerage goes in, then disaster. I recorded it and I was. So what will be left for my people? What will be left for them? I was born with a miner and I know what that miner is. These bloody wounds, I'm going to talk about the Chetinian end, I am not able to say that I don't need to get used to, but only to exploit at harm and no, so we're jeopardizing the conditions of these people's lives, I was born with that mine, there are three or four around me, but when it comes to the gentlemen that the investor's obligation to turn into a wild dump, and even here in the Brnaza after the Anti Mandac hero of the Homeland War has been lost in the Brnazas, it was declared a sports center by the name of Mr. Mandac the deceased, the hero, in the end it became a wild dump. So many places. I was born with the miners and the only thing we were doing was exploiting the song, nothing came back to the people. Now, everyone's wondering what Miro training is, what it means, "Let's not give Greda." "Let's not give Greda" is an initiative that has already collected 3,000 signatures in a very short time, the initiative is from the village of Glavica near Sinja, the largest village in the Republic of Croatia that has no municipal or city status, next to my village. Together we have been bored in numerous actions to prevent and delay the waste from Vrgorec, to the detriment of Vrgorčan, to Sinj, a harmful one, your ministry, one harmful decision that is disastrous for both air and nature 100 km of this transport, and now we have been brought to the position that in Glavas that are recognizable by the production of the head cabbage, in Glavas where it is recognizable, here I will tell you the names of people who are from Glava, Marko Vjelica, is recently opened to my proposal and bust in Sinj a legend of Croatian, fighter for Croatia's independence, here's former prime minister also. We have a number of people from these areas. The head cabbage was produced, and now in the smell of that part we have a mining mine that's being exploited and what's put that area at risk. Now there's a beautiful beam of mold stone and, of course, someone threw around to get that tribal out, near the river Cetina, there are near people, we have sources, we have endemic species of plants and it's an area of good for and development of tourism and agricultural production and can live off agriculture if it is, however, we see the current situation that everything we have is investing only in exploitation. That area has, I've given the amendments to the state road through its place to Han to expand that bridge, and mainly that the children from that area are going, the channel is along the road, it's a state road, I've given the amendment to make a move for these people, 5,000 people live there, and against. Well, the miner, yes, the miner, yes. I am expressing this dissatisfaction that there are all political options in this citizens' initiative, regardless of HDZ, SDP, Miro Bulj, MOST, Turkey, it doesn't matter who, all the political options. Why? The people are full of caps of exploitation and leaving these people, so they can't just fall to someone. I believe that the ministry of what I said and all this, that the realisation of this planned project that means destroying this beautiful area, will endanger the living conditions of these people, and simply this place is not for exploitation. I know there's probably a quality mold, probably she's doing well in Italy, she'll probably have a profit, but let's protect that area agriculturally along Cetina. On the left are this region of Churlini where the tribal would be imported, here is a huge settlement within the town of Sinj. Is the town of Sinj not as small as anyone thinks, the town of Sinj is the center of Dalmatia's Zagora, and the Cetina province has more inhabitants than the Lično-Senj County. And I would say hello to those brave people who have organized themselves and who have already collected 3,000 signatures and I invite you all to sign a petition that will now be on the Internet. Don't let them devastate us. I get the investor, I get the procedure that's been initiated, it hasn't been an environmental impact study yet, it won't go away, it won't go away because there's going to be so much pressure. So please stop these harmful projects in advance, I know they're people who are investors, I know that maybe some investors and your sponsor, I don't know it's important now, but stop for the sake of the people and the survival of those people. Don't only endanger Mr. Secretary... the conditions of people's lives in this case in the Glamours. I believe that this landscape of Grede will also be preserved and thus a better quality life of residents and all nature lovers whose Greda is a favorite destination for different types of activities. She is, this beam we're talking about, she's an unrepeated landscape in which an endemic plant dwells, and a potential quarry would endanger her. This area is a natural resource, these people have the right to live and survive in that area and not all capital. Because we only subordinated all the capital and these harmful projects in the Cetina area, and Zagora, it happened that 100,000 people were gone. 100,000 people since County was founded. I claim to you that with a couple, several development projects, not these harmful ones, it is a quick road, a merger of the Cetina landscape, a merger of Imotski – Knin, and in this case Cetinski, Križice – Kukuzovac, that it is the most potent area for life. From Savudrija to Prelaka we have all the conditions, but only harmful projects, harmful projects. I repeat, we won't allow it anymore, you won't, we won't let you talk on the phone as much as you want, but I'm telling you that you won't do it, you won't do it. If you've made a mistake in the 1990s, and you won't bury us in 2019, you won't, I guarantee it and I guarantee it because of those 3,000 signatures of people who are my duty to tell you. And I ask you on behalf of the people, these signatories, those citizens who are excited, who are upset, who cannot sleep peacefully, who are self-organizing in the fight for preservation in this case the beam of their Head of my Son. What I had to do for years when I left the army system, and even when I was in the army, I had to give up in courts to protect the Cetinski end of a certain critical point. So give me a fix on a miner in the Cetina region, invest, make an aquapark in those mines. And there's no money for that, it's important that my Cetine plum produces 40% of the hydropower, that's the most important thing for the Republic of Croatia. And now you've had enough of course right in the srid village to make the miners. It's not just your responsibility and local policy and local policy and county policy, spatial plans, this, no one knows what's going on, what's, exclusively, I knew then what's going on. I know that only the Cetina province of Dalmatia has become an exploitation field, not a single project of the Split government of any government that has come has solved any problem in this area, not one, not one. People want normal living conditions, normal living conditions. I'm not talking here against entrepreneurs who started the process, I'm not talking about it, but I'm saying that the Ministry of Environment in the area where we have endemic species, where we have sources, where we have landscapes to tribals they'd collect, you'd have to have that area, regardless of local, regional, state, so you'd have to have it, and not that I have to go down to my village to fight not to poison our dick with cost and health risk seven years in Slani... battle to finally win. No matter what I care about the Youth and his money, what I care about the waste mob, I don't care. I'm interested in the people, my people in this area, and while I'm in these benches, I'm going to talk like this. Maybe this message is minor to you, it doesn't mean anything to the beam. You know how much these people mean to... Sinju, the Cetina region of this kind of ecological wound that was left behind? Is always an investor would have to take care of that behind the exploitation, and that's an obligation. They've been rehabilitated? No, they're not. They milked what they had, and now you're worried about wild dumps. You haven't solved our deposit in Split, Split-Dalmatia County where we have construction waste di disposal, that nobody cares. But of course you will, but it will be for the purpose of private interests again. Recover our miners, line them up, or do something inside that's developmental. I haven't cared about anyone, I've written about it for years, I've talked about it, I've warned if I live here and I plan to die here, and the most serious thing would be if my three sons stayed here like someone else's, it's our little box of other people to stay here, believe me. If you behave like this, believe me, today some have called here on Tudjman, on this, on that, on the Croatian defenders and then the first president and commander-in-chief. Remembering and arguing about it is pointless if we do not arrange the Republic of Croatia is not enough just to lay flowers for someone in the grave of the bones to turn when they see who lays and what was made of Croatia. We have an obligation because of these people who gave lives, comrades of mine, yours who were those years to build Croatia on sustainable development, on the survival of people in this area, and not solely to keep us as an exploitation field. And so once again, sign this petition, and I'll publish on Facebook, let's not give Greda exclusive support to a little man, a man who feels better about nature and life in this area than we do from these chairs here. 'Cause if we cared about people, you wouldn't be this empty Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179232	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Mikulic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179233	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Secretary of State Horvat, with his associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. We have before us a Law on the Protection of Nature, or amendment of this law. What is important to emphasise is that nature and parts of nature of interest to the Republic of Croatia enjoy its special protection. In the Republic of Croatia, a legislative and institutional framework has been set up to implement the conservation activities of biodiversity, geo alleviation and landscape diversity. It is also successful to implement the integration and coordination of the state system with the international nature protection system. Administrative and professional tasks of nature protection are carried out by the Ministry and the administrative bodies of the units of the regional or regional self-government responsible for nature protection matters, while the professional nature protection tasks are carried out by the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. The Nature Protection Act stipulates that the conditions for the protection of nature and the issue of certificates for procedures for which a building act is required in accordance with specific regulations in the area of spatial planning and specific regulations in the area of construction. This results in the obligations of economic operators to provide the Ministry of Environment and Energy with requirements for the entry into force of those conditions and certifications, together with a major project or an idea project of law. The government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted its action plan for the recovery of the economy, and this is exactly what we will meet the obligations set out in that plan and implement measures under the National Reform Programme and will facilitate business for economic operators, reduce costs but what is most important is that the level of nature protection will not be reduced. These amendments to the law propose a significant reduction in the number of economic operators' requests to comply with that obligation under the law, given that the costs are large, since all procedures which may have a significant negative impact on the conservation and integrity objectives of the environmental network area are undergoing a prior assessment of the acceptability procedure for the ecological network and for most of these procedures, or for those operations which are under the previous assessment process, assessed as eligible for the ecological network and, as soon as Article 23 has been amended, the obligation to determine the conditions of nature protection would be abolished. At the same time, the obligation to issue a certificate would also remain only for a small part of the procedure or for procedures passing the environmental impact assessment procedure and the main assessment of the acceptability of the procedure for the ecological network and the procedure for determining the prevailing public interest and the authorisation of the procedure under compensatory conditions. The Nature Protection Act defines the protected area as a geographically clearly defined space intended for nature protection and managed for the long-term conservation of nature and associated environmental system services. The amendment of this law in relation to protected areas is set out in Article 143, which is amended in order to clearly separate procedures for procedures in a protected area for which, in accordance with specific regulations in the field of spatial regulation and specific regulations in the area of construction, an act should be put in place, and this is not a matter of procedures for which the Ministry or the body of the regional self-government responsible for environmental protection tasks conducts an environmental impact assessment procedure and a main assessment of the acceptability of the procedure for the ecological network and the determination of prevailing public interest and approval of procedures under compensatory conditions. For which the need is granted. What is important is to highlight when we talk about this law so that these changes would save economic operators according to estimates about 650,000 kuna per year, representing a 30% reduction in the cost of meeting administrative obligations in nature protection. The benefits other than our economics and investors relate to both the Ministry and its capacities, which as well as those in the county bodies are hereby relieved. This law facilitates business, reduces costs, and protection is not reduced since the implementation of the prior assessment of acceptability for the ecological network is ensured and the assessment of the acceptability of the planning documents for the ecological network and the installation of the conditions of nature protection in the planning documents. Given everything I have stated, the HDZ Club will support these amendments and the Final Proposal for the Nature Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179234	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179235	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, so here's another amendment to the Nature Protection Act, and I'm going to tell you in the beginning of a good change, so I think it's significantly reducing the procedure and that this is good. But here I'm going to warn you of one thing that I've actually talked about before, and it's very simple. So, we are talking here, so Article 3 or Article 143, respectively, stipulates that for procedures in a protected area for which, in accordance with specific regulations in the area of space of arrangement, blah, blah, blah, blah, respectively, the responsible or ministry of procedures in the field of special reservation and national park or nature park or public institution national park or the administrative body of the county is whether, meaning the administrative department for environmental protection and communal affairs.../incomprehensible/... that is what the body calls. And now that question that's logical, here's what I've been asking here, I'm going to say a decade. Since there are county nature conservation facilities why don't they bring that solution, why is it moving back to the county department? Either one or the other. So the question is, what is the purpose of the existence of public institutions and management departments at the same time? If I was a legislator, I'd cut something down. Or it would shut down public institutions of the county and powers that the county public institution has transferred to, directly to the county through the administrative department, would save directors, secretaries, etc., large savings, not small ones. Or the opposite of these jobs that the county office is doing today, means the environmental management department transferred to a public institution when it already exists. So the thing is simple, we have a simple duplication here and now we have one correspondence, I speak first hand, one correspondence that is not needed between the management department and the public institution. For what? If the public institution is a body that it created and has jurisdiction over the county, it is the founder and corresponds to the ministry, which makes another triangle, the administrative department of communication, I really don't see the purpose. So I really don't see the point, and here's my recommendation, that this correspondence be reduced, to speed up these processes, and this correspondence takes, unfortunately, months. There are, of course, better headmasters and worse headmasters, better directors and worse directors who are more up-to-date, but this takes a long time. So I know this isn't easy to solve, but this is one radical cut that's logical, so either one or the other. And now another thing that's not a direct proposal of this law, but here I am going to get a little bit attached. I've always mentioned and I'm going to mention again, we're talking about protected natural areas, professional bases, professional backgrounds of my people don't exist. So we're saying something's protected, and we have no idea on what. Professional bases, here I know that Mr... I will certainly mention a few examples in Sibenik-Knin County declared on 22 April 1974, these are the last professional bases for the significant landscape of Kanal Luka in Sibenik, for the significant landscape of Gvosdenovo Kamenar, etc., I will repeat on 22 April 1974. So we're protecting something based on one piece of paper that's 300 times photocopyed, the question is where is the original today, one single piece of paper, and we put it in a protected natural area, and no one has told us for 45 years what it's about. And now we have an absurd situation, and I'm going to be very specific here, I think I know you understand me. So we have significant landscapes, one wide category of protection, specifically here I will be an example of Sibenik but not only Sibenik you have 100 examples where today in a significant landscape where the main phenomenon of pine forest is, we have construction of residential settlements, currently being built in Sibenik 300 apartments. It's not a Bosniak problem, it's a general problem because these people have a building permit, it's in the construction area, and it's a significant landscape. It's not the public institution, it's not the administrative department, it's not the Ministry's fault, but something's wrong. My proposal is, my proposal is really to be finally, but this must be the priority of all priorities, making finally professional bases. The first thing about professional bases is to strictly define the border of a protected natural area. If it's necessary to reduce, then let's reduce my men. We can't protect, for example. 600 acres, and in those 600 acres there are 200 acres already building. So, I'm going to be a concrete example, the Iron Kamenar in Sibenik protection went back then, it's someone drew on topographic map 1:25,000 isohipsis 100 meters. At the end of the 1970s, the first skyscrapers broke into the area, in the late '70s, and I'm not talking about the '80s when it was a big apartment building, and it's still going on today. So we have one general chaos, and on the other hand depending on the headmaster and the headmaster in some protected natural area of the same category will be vaccinated, you'll be watched as the man eats the olives because he'll say this is a protected natural area you can't mow olives, there I don't know there's a Dalmatian shell, for example. A butterfly or I don't know what it is. So I'm going to do it again, two things. We have unnecessary correspondence between these three means county, administrative department, ministry, short for one thing, something we attach to, we have a surplus here, it's really not meaningful and the other thing is I've already been talking to you from this place for the fifth time and I'll tell you the next time you're here, professional bases have to be a priority because without professional backgrounds in all categories of protection from the significant end, parks of architecture, park woods, anything they have to be the foundation, borders first of all, and then the rules on internal order and everything that goes, but here you know like me. That's my well-intentioned advice. And I welcome this, these decisions, I will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179236	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179237	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At first, I'm going to look back a little bit on the number of colleagues in the assembly, but not with the goal of what's so good and here so many times said pulsism, that there's no one here now, that this really cares about some environment, that this shows that colleagues don't care, etc., etc. which we have heard a lot of times, especially by opposition deputies, by the way, there are now no colleagues from MOST, SDP, GLAS, and it may not even be necessary to be there if they are already doing their job because here we have an extremely good law which they obviously think they can't change, I can't share something with my debate and bring some added value. I'd prefer there to be a little more people, but then when we listen to such calls on the side when it comes to making amendments where there's only the right to speak, and the person who submitted the amendment, then I ask why calling other than getting cheap populist points. And that's it for you, giving up to the public if the public has a bad opinion about us anyway, and nobody ever does anything about it, there isn't, it's better that there isn't, etc. It's not true, so everywhere in society and here, there are people who do their job and they're actually in most of it even though it may not always be seen in.... But to get back to the agenda. The simplest thing is, we have something called abolishing the absurdities of this country. We started today under the name of the administrative discharge that has financial scales, so it was estimated about 670,000 or 600,000 kuna per year of certain taxis, notes, administrative fees that people paid for what? As your colleagues explained, when you issue, when you apply for a building permit, all public authorities must comply with your proposal. Now, since this year, by amending this Construction Act, it does so by the force of the law within 15 days if it is not apparent it is considered that the silence of the administration is all accepted. And you got a positive opinion on your initial request, but no, that wasn't the end. Then you had to go back to the ministry or to the competent office and ask for the conditions of nature protection and they reiterated what they had already said and agreed. And you had to pay for that paper. Whom, why it was not clear to anyone or now it is very clear that this is how all things should actually be resolved in procedures, in administration, in the business of citizens with the state, or using this public service for citizens, which is the state. The public service that must be efficient must be economical, and in this case so far, and by accepting it we will take one small step towards it, it was certainly not efficient and economical when you had to double into the same, and yet we are told by the constant legal references of the Latin era or the Roman "not bis in i go", so not twice about the same, but it has become a llarurlartism so that each body must have a purpose and it has to stamp some part of it because it has its own purpose. And when you give him some level of responsibility, then everybody raises their hands, it's not mine. When something really needs to be done, a part of responsibility taken over, and I say, that I'm going to give that permission, I'm going to pass that verdict, I'm going to give, I'm going to evaluate that environmental impact study, I'm going to approve it, no matter how much the public is complaining, then everyone gets out, and then I wouldn't take responsibility for who I'm paid for. But first of all, this Article 23, which is actually when I looked at a little bit of material literally three words out, is literally said there to be a confirmation and that there is no need for more protection conditions. So the three words issued or the belief is not necessary, so three, four words have been removed, and three, four words have cost our masters 100th and 100ths of a year, time, which is not all, for something that someone has already agreed on in a space that is not covered by the protected area, which we said, the Secretary of State has said very well, 90% of all such requirements are for those areas that are not protected, and I think we have done something that should absolutely move on in all segments of public service towards citizens where the state appears. So, unnecessaryly, when we sum it up like this, you get permission from a public legal authority or issue a certificate, and then that certificate still has to go to get the belief that it's all right. And to get that confirmation, the same body had to agree with that. Nonsens who was himself this way when it was explained really incomprehensible, but it is to you ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately not an exception but a rule and I am here congratulating and to the competent ministry that they have recognized it, and it is certainly not an isolated example, and that is what is good. This is not an isolated example, this is obvious, we have more of those, and that is why I call on both the rest of the ministries and various bodies to engage in exactly this kind of work, to cut down the administration, to cut down the number of departures, to visit the counters, to wait and know what happens to us, to someone is sick, to be on a yearly basis, so whoever does it, I don't know, somewhere the object stands, that person isn't there, so we wait unnecessaryly, someone accidentally puts himself under the bottom of the drawer or under the paper somewhere, etc. So digitisation is what is truly crucial, which enables us to speed up, efficiency, economics, so we also follow how this public service works towards our citizens and to evaluate and evaluate them accordingly and value them and give them the well-deserved status in society that they actually need to get, but first they have to deliver the result. Of course, the HNS Club will support these changes and welcome them as one of the few ministries that have joined and this action plan, along with the Ministry of Civil Engineering above all, and I invite everyone else to in the next year a lot more of these laws we have and regardless of the number of people reported for discussion or when something is good, it's a little harder to tell people you're doing this well, so you better not come here, but so be it if everyone needs to be gone, just to do good things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179238	Thank you very much. We move on to an individual debate that will be addressed by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179239	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club I was talking about certain problems, the ecological wounds in the Republic of Croatia simply need to look at sustainable development is we and the tourist state, we have to worry about it, and of course any law that makes any change to good, that the triba supports. However, there is no good from the Ministry of Construction while base stations are being set up wherever they can think of it. While people call me and cry, like I think they can handle it. Now I can take the bra, I'll probably do it, and I'll drink it there, which is illegally placed, and where we have a construction inspection, and it says that it's illegally placed under a man's window by a base station. Look, we've got a huge problem in the Republic of Croatia that we're comfortable with certain groups and that's the problem, that's the problem. What's good is it's good, but the tribune emphasizes what we're going through. Why would the teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have 42% profit and 20 percent in Germany? Marju. And ours still praises how good it is, that's the first. Secondly, I would eventually call you all once again to announce that ecological wounds in Croatia's area of Plitvice Lakes, from Krka National Park i.e. I see that the Krka River is threatened by oil and what not with the Tvik factory itself, the former factory Tvik, do I not know what it is called or what it is called, that we must do everything to protect our nature, our water, we must do so that we do not have a waste management centre as we have, we must do everything to avoid transporting waste by 150 km and damage to both nature and the environment and the air with old trucks because it is simply financial capacity neither Vrgorca, nor Sinja or any other city that has so much money, and many harmful decisions have been made by the Ministry of Environment. I hope that the waste management centre, especially this wound where it doesn't have to be the sole guilt of the Ministry of the Environment, but the experience that comes to me in my fight against the disposal of dangerous waste in the mines along the Cetina River in my village, as a change of the sanity material in the recovery of certain exploitation fields, I see there's a lot of waste mobs and a lot of peanuts but who. So what are the living conditions in these areas we're trying to use as an advantage, not just for better living conditions, and not to pretend that only certain elites exploit these areas, without having anything against people who want to deal with us, the triba and the building material, but it's known that it can't be in a populated place, that there are other areas because the roads they're already made for them, so we just have to commit ourselves to ecological production, which can be in this case, here, once again I have to say, let's not give Gredo, that's, it's about Glavica, I have to say that already 3,000 signatures have been collected within a very short period. We must point out that this people of Glavica, the Chetino region and already wider, many scientists are supporting, to stop in essence the realization of such projects because we permanently and irretrievably devastate our environment, our natural environment, our nature at the expense of living conditions. I said, Glavice is a village larger than numerous municipalities and cities, 4 thousand inhabitants, the largest place. I said, Mark Happy, move out of that neighborhood, we all know who Marko Happy is. Well, ex-Prime Minister Milanovic is out of it a mystery and numerous... Vlado Veselica, brother of Mark Velice, is also a large number of people from these parts and are moving from these parts. We're simply turning into an exploitation field. Here, when fellow Shucker was fed up with the Government of Happy, I gave the amendment, you go to Livno, you go down that road to Bill Brig and... You didn't support him, they don't have kids when they go to school, and there's a lot of traffic there, there's a state road and there's a channel on the side that's not covered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know how many lives have been lost here in the Glasgows? And that's what we have a field, a smell, a famous head cabbage that has raised and many of those people in that area or their fathers in that area. Well, it can't be produced anymore, and it's funny to people, but it won't, I guarantee them, as they haven't done, but the people have risen. I ask you, sign that petition, that people are left alone, it's a small ordinary man who wants to live from his work, agriculture, and that their drawer stay in that area as I will stay in Sinj in his village of Suhač or Glava these or in the flat wheels in Biljani people to return, to live, however, in this way we do nothing for people, to protect nature. And that's why here's another citizen's initiative. Let's not let Greda have three thousand signatures in a very short time. Now the Internet petition, the environmental impact study has not yet been, but believe me, it will be like it was for the disposal of waste by changing the sanaci material in Karakasica in the Salt Rocks. It won't go away. It won't go away. And I ask you to protect that area well, to look at our natural landscapes to preserve them for the future of our people, and the exploitation fields can be worked elsewhere because there are definitely other places where opportunities are made, and somewhere people live where they create new values, where they deal with agriculture, they're fed up with this one miner in the middle of the village, as in my 3, they've had enough of it, they're over their heads. Nor do they have roads arranged, only a hole to the hole. For this reason, I call you once again, I welcome the initiative We do not give Greda from the village of Glavica, Sinj, the Cetina region and beyond, people will stop and protect this area, and we ask you to stop, not please, but ask you to protect that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179240	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We will vote on it when the conditions are met, and this will end today's work. We will continue tomorrow on Wednesday, 11 December at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 656. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-10-0.u179241	Final proposal of the Law amending the Act on the Protection of Nature, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 810. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Nature Protection Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 111 for, 13 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Nature Protection Act. Good morning, honourable MPs. Before we move on to the debate on the first item of today's agenda, based on the article. 247. I propose that, as we did in our first reading, we conduct a joint debate on the following 3 points: Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Family Violence. Also, I propose that we conduct a united debate on the following two points, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State's Attorney's Council and the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Judicial Council. Any objections? If not, then I will conclude that we will conduct the debate united just as I have now announced. And now we're going to the first point of today's agenda, that's: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Juvenile Courts, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 656; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution and Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I would now ask that the motionary's representative give an additional explanation. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Juro Martinovic, come in.
