ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129938	The Honored Chairman, Honored Representatives and Honored Representatives, is before you the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities. This Convention was concluded in Santiago de Compostella, Spain, on 25 March 2015 and signed on 1 March 2018 by the Republic of Croatia on 29 March 2018. 11. The main objectives set out in this Convention are to prevent and combat trafficking in human organs, protect victims' rights, and facilitate cooperation at national and international level in measures to combat trafficking in human organs, as well as prevention measures. The Republic of Croatia enjoys the status of one of the leading states as regards organ donation and transplantation. One of the objectives during the EU Presidency is that this topic should be one of the main topics of our presidency and that is precisely why it is intended to round up the legal framework. Last year, by amending the Penal Code, the provisions of the Penal Code are in line with the proposal of this Convention. The main holders of the implementation of the Convention are the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and the Office for Human Rights and Minority Rights as a contact point specified for the implementation of the Convention. So far, 24 countries have signed this convention and 7 countries have ratified them. Following the above, we suggest that this convention be confirmed in the Croatian Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129939	Thank you, there was no replica. Do the representatives want to speak? If you don't, then I'm opening a debate, and first of all, the esteemed colleague Ivan Kirin is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129940	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Therefore, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities, is set out in Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for the adoption of this law is set out in Article 207. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament under which the laws which are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia confirm an international contract are adopted as a rule in one reading and the adoption process is initiated by the submission of the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Treaty. For the implementation of this law, the funds are provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021.The assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by law and the consequences that legislation will result in, the existence of unauthorized trade in human organs at the world level for the purpose of transplantation, the fact that leads to individual health risks, endangers healthcare as a whole, constitutes a violation of fundamental rights and human freedom and opposes human dignity. In the fight against that criminal activity at international level, international agreements have been adopted as well as regulations at national level, a protocol to prevent, combat and punish trafficking of people, in particular women and children, which complements the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, drawn up in New York on 15 November 2000, as well as the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Trade in Human Beings, drawn up in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, which is a member of the Republic of Croatia, the content of the implementation that criminalises human trafficking for the purpose of organ-taking. Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which is the Republic of Croatia. The 21st decrees that the human body and its parts as such must not be the source of monetary gain. Art. 22. Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being with regard to the application of biology and medicine in relation to the transplantation of organs and tissues of human origin drawn up in Strasbourg on 24 January 2020. which the Republic of Croatia is also a party, shall be prohibited from trading in organs and tissues in accordance with Article. The 26th Additional Protocol of the Parties shall provide for appropriate penalties to be applied in the case of provisions laid down in the Additional Protocol. Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities, drawn up in Santiago DeCompostel on 25 March 2015. It entered into force on 1 March 2018. So far, 24 countries have signed the Convention, while six parties to the Convention have signed it. The Government of the Republic of Croatia held a meeting on 31 October 2018. Decision to initiate the procedures for the conclusion of the Convention. The purpose of this Convention is to prevent and combat trafficking in certain parts of human organs, protect victims' rights, criminal acts established in accordance with this Convention, facilitate cooperation at national and international level in measures to combat trafficking in human organs, as well as prevention measures at national and international level. The Republic of Croatia is already party to related international contracts as indicated. The Ministry of Health pointed to the Ministry of Justice as to the fact that the Republic of Spain enjoys the status of a leading country in the world according to the number of donated and transplanted bodies. It is therefore planned to take one of the health priorities during the EU Council of the Republic of Croatia's Presidency in the first half of 2020. be an organ transplant. Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia to the Council of Europe, Ambassador Miroslav Papa, 29 November 2018. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, he signed the Convention. The Republic of Croatia has a clearly defined, transparent and effective national transplant programme, which has successfully responded among the world's few to the biggest challenge in the area of transplant medicine, the global lack of organs. Thanks to the successful model of organ donation and transplantation, based on the highest ethical standards, patients in the Republic of Croatia have ensured availability of the method of treatment by organ transplantation and, of course, in record short time. Belgium, Germany, Croatia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Hungary, Austria and Slovenia are joined in Eurotransplant. Nearly 136 million people live in the Member States, the advantage of cooperation is the existence of one donor identification system and one central waiting list. On the central waiting list in Eurotransplant countries there are currently 15,000 patients. Thanks to the patient pool, perfect compatibility is enabled, so you can get the organ that fits the most, so the results of the transplant are more successful. The annual Eurotransplant is distributed to some 7,000 donor bodies. 81 Eurotransplant transplants store all important data from patients awaiting organ transplants in the Central Eurotransplant database. On the Eurotransplant's stand-off counter, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, staff who have been trained for these tasks are available because the organs must be transplanted as quickly as possible. An officer on the Eurotransplant's stand-off counter gives the donor an offer to the transplant center of the first patient on the waiting list, so there's no doubt, they would tell me, no smudge. The Eurotransplant was founded in 67 years and the Republic of Croatia became a member of Eurotransplant in 2007. The first transplant in the Republic of Croatia and this kidney was done in Rijeka in 1971, so 4 years after the establishment of Eurotransplant. The Republic of Croatia is in the first place by the number of liver transplants, and second by heart transplants, of course, to the number of inhabitants. The Republic of Croatia has cca. 40 donors per million inhabitants, 2000. There were 12 donors, and today there were them over the year. 140 to 150. On the 50th anniversary of Eurotransplant, special guests were Dutch sovereign William Alexander and health minister of the most successful Eurotransplant state, this is Minister of Health, Prof. Kujundzic. President Eurotransplant Dr. Majsner said at the time, it is difficult to copy the Croatian model because it requires high levels of solidarity in society, excellent organisation, strong professional and uninterrupted dedicated service and active throughout the year, above all dedicated doctors and transplant coordinators living for the job. This is the answer to those who say this and that in Croatia about medicine, that we are the last and a lot of things. In Croatia, there is a Law on Presupposed consent, under which, when a person is brain-dead, it is considered that there is no consent to a transplant. In addition, you always talk to your family because you want it to be an organ donation. The illegal organ markets are all present. The largest illegal market for organs has spread from Asia to parts of the Middle East, Eastern Europe, South Africa, Latin America and the United States. It's clear about a million people a year waiting for organ transplants. When laying down its instrument of ratification at the depositary, the Republic of Croatia, at the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities, will announce the reserves in accordance with Article 10(3) and (5), also in accordance with Article 22. When laying down its instrument of ratification with depositaries, the Convention will declare that the national contact point, for the exchange of information on human organs trading in the Republic of Croatia, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is a national contact point. The national referencing system for the prevention of human trafficking in the Republic of Croatia consists of a national committee for the repression of human beings, an operational team, for the prevention of human trafficking and a national co-ordinator for the prevention of trafficking in human beings who are responsible for this problem and coordinate all activities, which include working with victims of human trafficking. Thank you for your attention and the HDZ Club of course supports this law, and since it is a superpolitical topic, I believe that other clubs will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129941	Thank you. Now it's the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA and counterpart Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129942	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. For organ trafficking, we've all heard more or less, but somehow along the way. Until, in fact, we asked ourselves, what is the reality of this, or, in practice, the abuse of medicine. We've heard about rich people changing their organs, not just because they're sick, but for reasons to extend their lives. We heard about it, for example. that also rich people often change blood, e.g. Especially those who consume drugs, that there are even politicians among them and so on. There's a rumor that the war is being used to steal the lives of the murdered and sometimes the captives' organs. Such stories, unfortunately, have been circulating in our immediate neighborhood. As already mentioned, more than a million people in the world hope to donate organs, and demand is increasing in view of medical progress. The disproportionateness in world wealth, i.e. poverty, favours the development of a black market, in which people risk their lives and health daily to earn money on their organs, and sometimes they are forced to do so against their will. It's mostly about kidney and liver trading, but it's also about the lungs, the heart, the lizards, the corneas of the eye and the like. Crimes about organ trafficking take place at several levels, often poor people, formally even give consent to take an organ, hoping to get money, and then it happens that either money doesn't get at all or get some funny number, say in Nepal people get $200 or get a few thousand kunas, means almost nothing for their ruined health at the end. Sometimes even organs are stolen, literally, by immigrants, homeless or uneducated people, without their knowledge, without their will, means kidnapping and sleeping. The illegal sale of organs is currently around 10% of the world’s total number of transplants. As far as the kidney is concerned, about 10,000 transplants are made annually. Prices are very high, i.e., profits are very high. The kidney is given about 150,000 euros, and for the heart up to 13m euros. So the giant and dizzy figure, with it being perfectly clear, that the one who donated the heart or took his heart can definitely no longer live. Besides buying organs for transplants, organs are also bought for experiments by unethical scientists, and they are also bought for which coffees are strange rituals that still exist. How much did this monster take? We can see from time to time that even in small advertisers, they offer organs for sale, say ebay, while in China there are companies that supply organs and their ads are roughly read, donate organs, resolve your financial situation. Apart from China, many organs are sold, or most sold in Pakistan, India, Egypt. Egypt is the main point for the sale of organs in Africa, given the huge number of refugees it has in Africa, and it is estimated that about 5,000 transplants are carried out annually in Egypt alone. There's a creepy report from our neighborhood, e.g. Former Albanian Prime Minister and President Sali Berisha announced that children under 18 are being smuggled at the border of Kosovo and Albania, and we also heard similar cases exist in Romania's territory. When I was a member of the Committee on National Security at a conference on human trafficking and authorities in Brussels, I was appalled by the fact that the organ market is worth around 8 billion euros, and most of all by the fact that the organ trade would not be without the participation of the doctor. So this crime is not about, let's say, some kind of human waste, scum, scum, street people, but it's about a fine gentleman, very well-educated who agrees to use his education, his scientific knowledge for something as terrible as destroying human life. For all of these reasons, it is good to launch today an action to combat illegal organ trafficking. In Croatia it seems that the theft of organs so far is not or is potentially an isolated case, but it is a problem at another level, which is that our citizens, unconsciously, more or less, participate in the trade as users of services. So someone in need of an organ, in Croatia, can't get it within a period that is appropriate to it, maybe that deadline has extended to a few years and then it just goes abroad, especially to China, where the organ can be obtained practically immediately. And it pays for those organs, and it is essentially asking the question, how it is possible that there are no waiting in China, and in European countries it has been waiting for so long. According to studies conducted by prominent international organisations, about 10,000 transplants have been performed annually in China, and the number of transplant centres has increased by as many as 4 times over the past 15 years. At the same time, there is no explanation of the source of the organ because China does not have a donation system. When you ask the Chinese authorities where their so many organs come from, they justify it, therefore, to obtain organs from those sentenced to death. In China, however, 2,000 people are killed annually, and that figure is certainly not enough for such a large number of transplants, and in addition, this method of organ collection constitutes a violation of all ethical norms and human rights. After the pressures the international community has been working on in China, they now claim that convicts voluntarily donate organs to death, meaning it is no longer forced but they agreed to it themselves. As many as 6 extensive international reports suggest that the source of the authorities in China are most often prisoners of conscience, so let's say it openly, believers, and most of all, members of the Buddhist Falun gong movement, and in part Christians, Tibetans and Ujguri, who are Muslims. It is estimated that at least 100,000 authorities were taken from those persons who were also imprisoned in Chinese prisons and sold on the international market. Following these reports, the Chinese authorities said it was a black market, however, in China absolutely all transplants were made in state hospitals, so the information does not stand. The prominent international association and publications condemn this Chinese transplant practice, let's just mention some, World Medical Association, World Health Organization, Trasplantation Society, UN Report Human Rights and many others. In view of this, the EU parliament adopted a special resolution in 2013 condemning China's transplant policy, followed by a number of other countries, such as Canada, the United States and others. For this reason, it is important to note that this convention that we are adopting today is only the first step in curbing illegal organ trafficking. So it would be very good to raise further awareness in terms of, I repeat, not buying the organs of people we're not sure are being taken legally. Italy, the Czech Republic, Spain and other European countries have adopted a special convention prohibiting their citizens from going to China by authorities. So it's some kind of extra, extra protection. Therefore, this convention, which today is ahead of us, is very good that it has come, but it will ultimately not solve all the problems and should continue to develop this policy, and that is before Croatia is in the world summit on transplant medicine, in fact we can give a bright example of both legislation and practice. The living wall will support the Convention banning organ trafficking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129943	Now it is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and respected colleague Draga Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129944	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, I apologize, the Secretary of State is, I apologize for not knowing. I will also speak a little bit of illegal trade as a sort of monster of today. So the illegal market for human organs is actually a touch point where they meet hopelessly sick on the one hand and hopelessly poor on the other. Such a dark trade is unfortunately carried out in certain hospitals, prisons and laboratories where local, regional, or national borders are traded. Potentially, any transplant surgery department may be part of a global network for the sale of human organs but despite this global advance, the world of transplant trade due to these dirty business of illegal roots is in some way cast a shadow on the humanity of transplants and on its progress from day to day in every respect. The commercialisation of human organs is just one of the forms of global trafficking in people, bodies, desires and needs. The illegal part of transplant technology is a replicant of a global economy that insatiably devours raw materials and marginalised, poor and excluded people. The need for organs is high as long as it's in that so-called. Transplant tourism makes a huge living. The sale of human organs, tissues and cells is a major business and dark side of the medical system. The existence of unauthorized trafficking in human organs at global level for the purpose of transplantation. The fact that it poses a threat to individual health endangers health in general and is a violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms and is certainly opposed to human dignity. The need for organs, to a lesser extent for tissues, far exceeds what is available. And since transplant medicine has made remarkable progress, the need is expected to continue to grow. International agreements have been adopted in the fight against that criminal activity and criminal rules have also been adopted at national level. It is important for international agreements and national legislation to clearly set up a framework within which organ, tissue and cell transplants will take place in every country so that all human activities can move away from the reselling of human organs that have been placed on the market as goods that occur in illegal ways very often using human suffering and troubles as I have said along the way, abundantly and earning money. The accuracy of the data on the number of human organs sold against the will of their owners actually does not exist but it is certain that illegal trade in organs has grown significantly. The World Health Organization estimates that 10% of the transplanted organs in the world are being found and illegally resold and transplanted to so-called. The red market. As many as 12% of people do not experience transplantation and only 10% of patients get, say, the necessary kidney, data are global healthcare organisations. In addition to rare exceptions, no country has enough authorities to meet growing needs and we see the Convention as part of a serious effort to curb a trade that many think is not only luxuriant, chargeable, but also inevitable. We have therefore heard that in Spain on 25.3.2016, under the auspices of the Council of Europe, a Convention on the fight against trade in organs aimed at combating such practices in the world has been adopted. And surely that's a very important step when it comes to human rights. At the same time, the Convention adopts measures to protect victims of such trafficking and encourages international co-operation in the plan. The provisions of the Convention shall not automatically enter into force in the Signatory States and each of them shall in any way be adapted to the laws of their country. We have already had the opportunity to hear that the Republic of Spain enjoys the status of a leading country in the world according to the number of organ donations and transplants. It is also planned that one of the health priorities during the Presidency of the Council of Europe in the first half of 2020 should be the transplant of bodies where it is certain that the Republic of Croatia really has its special place. According to the number of donors, Croatia is at the very top of the Eurotransplant Foundation, which is therefore a non-profit organization for the donation and award of transplant bodies in 8 European countries. The donation and receipt of human organs is based on the respect of priority interests for the preservation of life and health and protection of fundamental human rights and dignity of the donor and recipient of human organs. As I said, trafficking in human organs is a global problem, global proportions and a direct threat to individual's freedom and life. By confirming this Convention, the Republic of Croatia will join an initiative to strengthen international cooperation mechanisms to prevent or effectively sanction such practices. Only universal application of the Convention against Trade in Human Authorities can prevent perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences protected by international law from being unpunished. The Republic of Croatia argues that all States Parties to the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities shall ensure its full implementation in their national legislation and shall establish appropriate mechanisms in accordance with the Convention to ensure the co-operation of States Parties. We have had the opportunity to hear the purpose which will be achieved by this Convention and certainly to combat illegal trafficking in human orains, it is certain that it is recommended to encourage post-mortem donation, that it is necessary to ensure the legal responsibility of health professionals on the possible basis of possible irregularities and certainly monitor and disclose advertising of illegal offers or demand which, as we all witness therefore also happens through agencies, newspapers, online, web sites. It is also important to transplant cadaveric organs to promote and encourage people to donate their organs after death to reduce the need to transplant live donors. It is certainly necessary to prevent manipulations of waiting lists to be declared by foreign patients as an emergency for monetary compensation from their health insurance systems. To improve and ensure the public of national registers and waiting lists and international cooperation must certainly improve in the domain of health, justice and internal bodies. I will also take the opportunity to say that among my close friends I have two people who, whose organs have been transplanted in Zagreb, are one of the younger people who is my friend whose liver has been transplanted and I always have these stories of theirs particularly experienced and when they talk about it, they always talk about it as a special thank-you to the experts who did it. And in fact, always talking to them, I feel this need to say that they have been given a second chance in some way. They are always full of praise and have this special, this special dose of living, and the members of their families, of course, that, that all the disease that was before the transplant had passed with them now recognize them as completely new people whose quality of life today is far, far better than it was before. And they really, indeed, are now enjoying themselves at all times and in some ways they can and such, such examples can indeed prove to us that what is advanced and more advanced transplant medicine is really something that needs to be used abundantly and ultimately the Republic of Croatia needs to be commended. The SDSS advocates' club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129945	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate, the first is the esteemed colleague Vlatko Kopić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129946	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here is the convention we are today discussing in the system of human organs trading that provides for the incrimination of the following actions. The law enforcement of human organs, the use of unlawfully to take organs for implantation purposes or other purposes other than implanting, implanting organs outside the domestic system of transplanting or violating the basic principles of domestic law on transplantation, illegal inciting, recruiting, offering and seeking non-performing, then preparing, preserving, storage, transport, transfer, reception, import and export of illegal human organs, and the assistance or promotion and attempted criminal offences established in accordance with this Convention. The black organ market moves from the southern hemisphere to the north, from the poor to the rich, from members of the yellow and black races to the whites and from women to men. The poor represent one of the main sources of organ trafficking, and in a chain where the kidney from the donor comes to the buyer earns a number of intermediaries. Black traffic moves from South America, Europe and the Middle East, from the former Soviet Union countries to the Baltic countries, from Western Europe, from Romania via Turkey and Cyprus to Italy, Israel and the Middle East, from Kosovo and Albania to Western Europe and the Middle East, from where and Vietnam to Thailand, means almost every part of this globe. The organ trade is generally unacceptable by looking at ethically, so paying donors for their organs is illegal in almost all countries. Trade in bodies will in due time lead to a conflict between the fundamental rights of donors and recipients on the other hand. Today, human organ trafficking is a very current, illegal trade that we read about is just a drop in the ocean and black organ trafficking is happening all over the world whether we want to admit it or not. This kind of activity is done by organised groups working together and using well-studden illegal routes. The trade of organs is also specific because it requires the participation of medical professional staff between ini and the doctors themselves. Donors are from one, buyers from another, while operations are carried out in third countries. Such a phenomenon is even called transplant tourism. The problem of the lack of organ transplants is becoming more and more current in the world. The organ donation does not keep pace with the rapid rise in new requirements in developed countries of Western Europe, America and Canada where more than 90% of transplants are carried out there is a lack of authority given the real needs. The growing need for organs is the result of increasing opportunities and success of transplant medicine and broader indications for transplant treatment. However, there was no significant increase in the number of sacadaveric organs available. The needs rise by about 16 per cent to 24 per cent per year, and the number of deaths in waiting increases about 18 per cent per year. In Europe today, there are over 50 thousand waiting for the transplant and in America more than 76,000 patients. Official data show that in Western Europe, about 25-35% of patients waiting for organ transplants will not welcome that opportunity, about 500 people die annually waiting for the liver and so much for the heart. In America, about 10-30% of those who wait for the liver die, not only waiting for the organ. If you can translate every fifth patient from the waiting list only, in the last few years in Croatia, there are about 500 new patients on regular dialysis annually, that number has almost doubled in the last 10 years. Every year, 1000 people die because they do not get a transplant organ in time, but for those who can afford it, which are sufficiently unscrupulous, there is a natural alternative. The need for organs is great, and while it is so, someone is going to make money somewhere, selling parts of the human body is a big business, and for the right price, the dark side of the medical system will offer organs, although it also means stealing them. When people face death, moral principles and higher laws will not prevent them from reaching health in any way or even illegal organ trafficking. By transplanting cells, tissues and organs, the borders of experimental medicine have grown today and are part of standard health care in all developed countries. At the same time, it is one of the most dramatic and complex areas of medicine where a successful task in all direct ways offers life itself or an incomparably better improvement in the quality of human life. The transplant area of medicine, which is increasingly more than each other... to humanity and altruism as well as a firm foothold in general ethics as well as in general deltology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia has a clearly defined, transparent and effective national transplant programme, which has successfully responded among the rarest in the world to the biggest challenge in the area of transplant medicine, the global lack of organs. Namely, thanks to the successful model of organ donation and transplantation, based on the highest ethical standards, patients in the Republic of Croatia have ensured availability of treatment methods, organ transplants in record short time. So here I am also thanking all the transplant teams in the Republic of Croatia, including the transplant team from the Clinical Hospital Centre Osijek, from which I personally come, which has been working systematically and actively within the Eurotransplant network for more than 10 years. On the other hand, as we have heard, there is this ugly, black side of these activities, so I think that in the area of legality, we should, of course, support this Council of Europe convention in order to bring what is possible to a lower level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129947	Thank you. Now it's my dear colleague, Željka Josic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129948	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representative of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that in today's debate, we have agreed that this topic is of utmost importance and that trafficking in human organs is unauthorized and that it endangers the lives and health of people, not only those who donate, but also those who receive certain organs. It is also endangered in this way and health care in general, as well as fundamental rights and freedoms of man. What has been emphasized through all these discussions, and we really need to keep stressing that the Republic of Croatia is at the very top of transplant medicine, and that is what we should thank our transplant experts for, but also for the national transplant program. I'm going to mention a few numbers here that I think are extremely important for a small country like this. In 2017, 147 kidneys, 112 livers, 33 hearts, 3 lizards were transplanted. If we look at waiting lists, which in Croatia, given the rest of the world are not so large, for all the sick, it is of course quite a long period. But in Croatia it is still waiting about a month for liver transplants, about half a year for the heart, but it is the most waiting for a kidney that is most often transplanted, on average for about 2 years. What I would certainly stress, that at this point in the world we do not know the exact number, but somewhere more than a million people are waiting for a transplant of a particular organ. Although there is a huge disproportionateity in the world between wealth and poverty that opens up, of course gives an opportunity to the black market, most often trade in kidneys and liver events in those countries would say the poorest countries. The trade is done from a criminal trade of traffickers forcing their victims, through those who receive petty fees, which are organ donors, to those who are of course vulnerable groups, uneducated homeless people, immigrants not to list any further. What we should point out is that the effects of the black market in the organ are large in both donors and recipients. Fatal infections occur most often. In all these cases an illegal transplant is somewhere around 40-70% is fatal infections, where more than half the people unfortunately die. If we look at today's disease, we'll realize it's actually transplant medicine, something we'll need more and more in the future. In the last 15 years, the number of donors has increased only 2% while the number of those in need of an organ increases annually about 20%. If we look at the world-wide waiting list only 30% of those waiting for the organ, they will indeed welcome it. More than 30% unfortunately of those on the waiting list will die before they welcome their organs. In the Republic of Croatia, organs are collected from people who are or are transplanted from those who have suffered brain death, where the heart is still working, so to speak, but practices in the world are different. Let's say we have Iran, which most often takes or implants organs from living donors, which is, of course, related to certain religious characteristics. What we heard in today's debate, and what needs to be developed and nurtured, are the cuts of cadaveric organs or cadaveric donors, and that's what actually got used to being in the future in transplant medicine. Although it is still, despite the fact that the Republic of Croatia is high in transplant medicine, that we have an extremely high number of organ donors and a high number of organ transplants, there are still a lot of people in our country who are looking at this form of medicine a lot. But we need to know that no matter how we feel at this time, we are all potential recipients and donors of certain organs. And so this law, which will very clearly define trade in the black market of organs, should certainly be welcomed, accepted because it is one of the essential beginnings, and progress, I would say, of transplant medicine that needs to be returned to those institutions that are truly trained and in which transplants should be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129949	We are now going to discuss a respected colleague, Mladen Karlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129950	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Proposer, here are a few words I'm going to say about this topic that is extremely important, perhaps not so much, we may not be aware at this moment, but it will certainly be extremely important in the future. The existence of unauthorized trafficking in human organs at global level for the purpose of transplantation is a known fact that puts individuals at risk, endangers health care as a whole and constitutes a violation of fundamental human rights and, as this trade becomes a global global problem, it is important that, by confirming the Convention, the Republic of Croatia joins this initiative to strengthen the mechanisms of international cooperation in preventing the effective punishment of trafficking in human organs. In the world, as has already been said, over a million people are on the waiting list for different organs to be transplanted, with which it is obvious that there is a demand for healthy organs and it is growing, the number of those rich people who could pay those organs is also increasing, and also, on the other hand, the number of those who can voluntarily or forcefully donate the organs because of poverty, as much as terribly large, favours the development of this market. It's mostly about organ trafficking like kidneys and liver because we have two kidneys, so one can live with one, and the liver is only transplanted one piece, part, so it can survive a person. What's much more dangerous is a heart transplant, a lizard, I don't know, other organs that cause the death of a donor afterwards. Therefore, in several ways, this trade is done, in part, by offering a financial, certain financial amount, but of course, and the worst, by violently taking organs from vulnerable groups such as poor, homeless, immigrants, children who have no care or parents, so that in this sense and of course, usually there, if it is in the form of coercion, is given so small amounts that in poor countries, however, they may still be able to survive for several years. Infrequently for organ sales, it accounts for about 10% of all kidney transplants in the world, according to some data in the media, and it's somewhere around 8,000 organs... a transplant where a person who gives a kidney gets somewhere between 3 and 5000 whether the EUR or USD, depending on which country, and for that someone else pays 50 to 100,000, while for, I don't know, the liver and more than 150, and even more, the heart to a million EUR, and that's one, a problem that can become the next. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What bothers me, what can happen in the future, maybe at this point isn't so much, but one day when we all have our genetic cards, when we know exactly all our genetic data, when it's this bank of ours, actually, the genome, then we'll certainly have the possibility of someone getting to that data and finding those people who are congruent, who are actually very similar and genetic characteristics and where this transplant would actually be very functional and actually give life away. What's the problem at this point, so, in this illegal, illegal organ abduction, is that it's difficult to make this genetic coincidence, do all the analysis, medically, means, laboratoryly, to determine which organ is the most similar, or who could use it the best, and the longest, so it's also happening in such people that end up, meaning, and very bad, from infections, from HIV infection, from hepatitis, meaning liver disease, to organ rejection in as many as 40 to 70% of cases. As I worked for years on dialysis, I had... patients who were transplanted in India, who got a kidney, actually bought a kidney in this way and, of course, re-entered dialysis after a few years because the kidneys had cancelled, or that kidney that they had received or bought, had cancelled, so they were back on the same therapy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the problem is that every year in the Republic of Croatia, about 1600 people disappear, from which up to 10% are never found, so there's a suspicion that maybe one of them actually disappeared because his organs were taken away that he was killed afterwards and that we can't actually... And it actually has to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to strengthen the mechanisms so that, first of course, we discover all missing persons and find a way, secondly, to prevent all possible illegal ways of trafficking in human beings in any way, in any way, to bodies, to all persons, and especially to women and children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you'd like to say as well as a doctor if it wasn't so simple to take organs, it's one procedure that requires a whole team of people who, by doing this, deal with such crime, complex procedures, determining the conformity of tissues, means they need laboratories for that, special equipment and operating rooms, whether they're some illegal hospitals, laboratories, I don't know, infirmarys or something like that, but they have to be a complete team and that's what they're actually supposed to be working on. Dealers coordinate patients, volunteers and donors in poor countries and medical staff who are willing to break professional ethical standards for single financial gain. As donors come from one country, often organ buyers from another and operations are carried out in third countries, it is already said, called transplant tourism. When people face death, then moral principles and laws will no longer prevent them from reaching their health in any way, so here this actually leads to this illegal trade. Every year, about 8,000 kidneys are illegally transplanted, and 2,600 are liver transplants, somewhere around 600 hearts that speak, must actually be that number and far greater. It is also estimated that about 800,000 people become victims of human trafficking in various ways annually, and one part of it is trafficking in human organs, and that is why it is extremely important that we all support this Convention together, but also to implement that it becomes such a fact that all mechanisms protect our fellow citizens and in that sense I think that it is also important that the National Security Act where we should actually take care of every citizen in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129951	We have a replica of my colleague Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129952	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear secretary, dear colleague Karlic. Tell me, do you know the model, the cooperation protocol between Eurotransplant and Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129953	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129954	Thanks for asking. Well, Croatia is an important member of Eurotransplant and what is extremely important is that whenever it appears somewhere in countries that are members of Eurotransplant, an organ of a patient or already dead person, then it is reported in that country, whether the hospital, whether the Ministry of Health or that Eurotransplant, who then has information about all those people who are registered on the transplant list with all their data, the one who is most similar, is informed and the organ is sent to one refrigerator or so in the ice as quickly as possible to the team that will then transplant the kidney to the person who needs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129955	Thank you. Now it's time for a respected colleague of the Gordan Maras who's just arriving, so we'll give him a chance to say something about human organs trading, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129956	Thank you very much, fellow president, for understanding what an intensive debate is, you can't plan how long it will take, but here I have managed to say a few sentences about this topic and I think it's one of the top topics that gets under the radar, or people like you know, and when it comes to health, they try to help themselves in a lack of quality health care system in a variety of ways, it's not just in Croatia, it's also in other countries. Unfortunately, people sometimes run ahead of anything and some criminal acts work to help themselves to some means, and that is where Croatia should be, I should say, the first and accept the standards that apply in the EU regarding the ban, or strict sanctioning, is one of the worst crimes that exists for me. As for ourselves and the Convention and all that is related to it, it is important to say that in Croatia, in some situations, human rights of our citizens are not fully respected, and that we have to fight for certain things in order for this level of human rights to be the same as it is, for example, protected by the same as in some other Western countries, the Member States of the founders of the EU and here we have a whole series of topics that go through this, one of the top themes is, of course, the right of our people who have been protected by recruits not to throw them on the road. Why do I even put these two topics together? Because there is also a struggle for life, for the lives of people who until yesterday had a stable situation in their apartments that neither guilty nor debtors got from the former state and found themselves 10,000, over 10,000 in the Republic of Croatia at this point in the struggle for life. If it hadn't been for HNS, Stromar and their secretary of state who simply wanted to get rid of these people and make it impossible for them to continue living in the way they had been able to live in their apartments so far, not in their own apartments, but not in their own homes, but not in the blame or in their debt to get those apartments from the former state and invested in them and in some way lived in them. There's also this convention where we talk about human rights by organ trafficking, people are fighting for a naked life. It's about people having to protect themselves, that we have to think about people, that it's not allowed not to solve people's problems, but to pass a law that doesn't solve this problem and now, year after year, to raise rent and de facto force them into the street. Does anyone wonder what's wrong with our fellow citizens' 1000 health? If anyone is wondering, I was in a meeting yesterday with a group of protected tenants, where people complained that they went from stress to surgery, that none of them were existentially threatened, because they're Stromar and now I can't remember exactly what it's called that secretary of state who had a few apartments as the owner and who, as it was called, you know maybe the secretary of state with the glasses of that gentleman from construction, how, so the gentleman who defended these laws here from the CNS is otherwise there's no mistake, who defended those laws and who eventually took away people's human dignity, who took away their fundamental right to be protected from his country. And because we talk about such things when we are trying to fight for human rights, when we are trying to fight that Croatia has standards for its citizens like all other EU countries, it is impossible not to mention such cases and it is impossible not to say that Croatia lags behind. And on that side, I invite you to, as we will support this Convention together, to consider how we will protect our citizens in all other situations ahead of us and which, as some challenge follow us on the other hand, that when we have standards for citizens and certain things like human organs trafficking and organ transplantation when we adopt it into the Republic of Croatia, we do the same thing in other spheres where human rights are protected. Let's not laugh cynically as HNS colleagues laugh who obviously don't care about these people, for 2,500 families I will bring them here to the Croatian Parliament and then laugh ladies and gentlemen will be very funny to you when you see how these people live and what their existential problems are. And on the other hand, if it was called Uhlir, I couldn't remember, I apologize to that man, he doesn't represent anything in my life, but he needs to know who was interested in solving this problem from his perspective and it's called Secretary of State Zeljko Uhlir, under the HNS Patronate, also Štromar, Vrdoljak and the societies that have thus humiliated the human rights of 2,500 families or over 10,000 people in the Republic and in some way made it impossible for them to live with dignity than from year to year that their rent will be raised, meaning this year 50%, and again next year, that they are being squeezed, and the Batinic gentleman here laughs at him it funny. It is not as funny to me as it is not funny to people who face health problems and, unfortunately, who are forced to cope in a poor health care system in what way to solve their health problems and perhaps also organ transplants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129957	You've come a long way off the subject, but it's also your right to look at this subject in this way, and it's caused two replicas, and it's a real respected colleague, Macar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129958	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Maras, so far you've accused the HNS of many things, but this is the first time that an HNS has ever accused anyone of trafficking in human organs, because it's the law we're discussing today. Of course, you've linked it to the Law on Protected Rents, of course, that all people are provided with a solution and it's this law that allows them not to stay on the street, but it's also ensured that those who have not been in an equal position so far come to their rights. So please give them to the right place to exercise their rights if you are contacted by these protected tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129959	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129960	Thank you very much, Mrs. HNS, this I have not accused the CNS of human organs trading because I can't say it very well, when I can have some indications, but I'm not trading people with human organs, so here you can be calm about it, but since it's about the Council of Europe Convention, and the Council of Europe is dealing with the protection of human rights, then it's impossible not to link this kind of harassment between Uhlir, Stomar and HNS on the human rights of our citizens to them 10,000 that you say you've easily solved them, so give them away to me and explain to them. Father go with me among those people? When you're so cocky and you explain that you've actually solved something for them. You haven't solved anything for them. I'm calling you next month. to go with me to that meeting if you have the courage. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129961	Thank you, colleague Maras. And I'd like to ask you to address MPs and MPs by their last name, not party membership, because I'm not telling you that you're a colleague of the SDP, but I'm telling you that you're a respected colleague of Maras, so I'm asking you to treat others like that. Here's my colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129962	Well, it's not the first time a colleague of Maras has mentioned HNS, it's been positive that I haven't heard in negativity that, so the question is how convincing you are in general, that's one thing. When we talk about the Convention means this law that you mention protected tenants has just been adopted and it has been adopted on the trail of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which has also been obtained from the confirmation of the European Commission itself and they have insisted on it because we cannot place one category in an unfavourable position to take another, that is one thing. Otherwise you were a minister back in the government when we were coalition partners, that law was over then. But what's important, and you're missing the tape and maybe you haven't been informed by Milanovic's premium then said we're not going to go then because we won't, we don't have the strength to face it and that's one thing and that's one thing and the other thing will bring us something... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129963	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129964	Honestly, this is the first time I've heard what you're saying, and I apologize to my colleague, Macar, and I've been smoking here, and I haven't been able to remember what her name is, and I hope she doesn't get mad about it, and it won't happen again. But what's the problem, Comrade Batinic, you better not have done anything. Believe me, the problem you've created now is ten times bigger than before the law was passed. People are threatened, people are driven to the road, they raise 50% of their rent every year, you've de facto left them hanging, and they have no one to turn to. If this situation had happened in Germany or Austria, believe me, the state would have stood behind its citizens. And that's why I'm telling you, in Croatia, human rights, human dignity is not respected in the same way as in Austria, Germany, France and it needs to be changed, it needs to be the primary key, how to protect our citizens, not to protect their own stakeholders as HNS usually does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129965	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate. I'm locking it up, and we'll vote when we get the conditions. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 569. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention against the Trade of Human Authorities. Please vote. I find it unanimous, 115 votes for the passed Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention against Human Rights Trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129968	On behalf of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, colleagues and colleagues, I was obliged to present a proposal to the Committee on the appointment of a fourth member of the HRT Supervisory Board. A total of 9 candidates were accepted in the above-scheduled tender, of which 3 candidates met the conditions of the competition, so the Committee for Information, Information and Media at its meeting established a list of candidates and concluded that the conditions for the selection of members of the HRT Supervisory Board meet the following candidates, Ljiljana Očko-Marković, science doctor Antonija Petričusic and Tomislav Radic. At its meeting, held on 13 November 2018, at its 23rd session, the Committee on Information, Information and Media held talks with candidates from the list, and subsequently, pursuant to Article 22(1) of the Law on HRT, decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of a PhD in science Antonija Petričusic as a member of the HRT Supervisory Board. We also propose such a decision to the Croatian Parliament. Namely, just a few words about the proposed candidate. As a doctor of science, as a lawyer, she has completed a study of journalism, she is familiar with relevant provisions of domestic and international law that regulate media freedoms and rights, and I particularly point out that she has analysed, among other things, the state of representation of minority issues in Croatian media and the exercise of human and minority rights in Croatia and the countries of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129969	Thank you. I'm opening the debate now, first in line, dear colleague Sunchana Glavak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129970	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The colleague had already said that the procedure was under way in accordance with the law of the Committee on Information, Information and Media has discussed the applications and I believe this will confirm the proposed candidate who is currently working at the Faculty of Law of the University of Zagreb at the Department of Sociology for the member of the HRT Supervisory Board. I must say that everything was carried out, and so was the procedure in line with the law, unlike some previous years, when we had no members of the Supervisory Board for three or more months, and we actually brought, not us, but those who proposed it, in 2015 it was almost in the crisis of the functioning of our largest public service. The members of the HRT Supervisory Board shall act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which shall, of course, comply with their activities in accordance with the applicable HRT Act, and I think it is important to mention that too. Their term of office lasts for 4 years, part of the members of the Supervisory Board we have already chosen and their part-time work and competences and powers are established by the Law on HRT and also by the statutes of the HRT. In order not to wander about what is the authority of the members of the Supervisory Board, because it often happens in the collage of what the Programme Council does, I will only remind myself that the Supervisory Board brings forward a work plan for the current year, establishes a framework plan and schedule for holding regular meetings of the Supervisory Board, determines the plan of activities related to the attitude of the HRT's business here and in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, their compliance with the law and other regulations. A monitoring plan shall be adopted for the implementation of decisions and conclusions and the plan of other activities. The Croatian Supervisory Board shall be established at the time when most members of the Supervisory Board are elected, why do I mention it? It is because of what I said earlier that it is not good when, after 3 months, not the members of the Supervisory Board are chosen, and that is how we bring public service into crisis. The members of the Supervisory Board shall be responsible for the decision-making of the Supervisory Board. They may propose the inclusion of certain issues from the work in part-time, at their meetings, of the Director of HRT, as well as of the heads, i.e. editors of individual reactions, so that the Supervisory Board actually conducts the supervision of the legality of the work and of the financial operations of the HRT, since it has been elected in HS, or their members elected in HS, shall report their work annually and normally until 30 June of the current year for the past business year. The annual report is always published on HRT's website, after we adopt it here. Not entering the other activities of HRT and all that has been discussed on the board, which is also discussed in the halls of HS, at different levels, so here we are talking about the appointment of a member of the Croatian Supervisory Board, as suggested by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Dr. sc. Antony Petrichusic. The HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129971	Thank you. Now it's the club of independent representatives and colleagues Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129972	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I could agree with a part of what my colleague Glavak said. Long ago, at the meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, it was a point of selecting and discussing the selection of a member, i.e. members of the HRT Supervisory Board. A long time ago. We have also waited a long time to discuss and choose members and members of the programme council. We all remember that there has been an early shift of the previous HRT Supervisory Board and in that interregnem, so to speak, which is still going on, it is actually our responsibility to allow HRT to be found in the situation that is today. And I think that this situation should be said and that we can't discuss the election of a member of the Croatian Supervisory Board without saying first what the situation is like today, which was created among other things because, in my opinion, it was left unsupervised, so the management of the current HRT was deliberately left unsupervised to do what it wanted, and what they did because they wanted and because they could, well, describe the fact that here, now there will be a protest against HRT, journalists and journalists that this administration, against whom this administration has filed numerous lawsuits. I would read here actually the announcement of the organizer of the protest which, I think, is important to hear in this place in order to discuss their motives for this protest. Quality and public media service is one of the pillars of democratic society. Unfortunately, Croatia does not have a public media service but a public television network that reports events on Prisavlje is trying to silence the lawsuits. As well as their own journalists and journalists who would like to do their job fairly and professionally. Instead of lawsuits and pressures, the reputation and independence of public service, should be protected by supporting journalists and journalists, improving the quality of programmes and governance and other activities aimed at protecting, rather than suppressing the freedom of the media. It's time for us to say a lot of things like that. We, the undersigned organization, do not give journalism until the press protest, which will be held on March 2, 2019, we will not participate in the HRT programme or by showing up in HRT's study or by making statements in front of HRT's cameras. With solidarity support from all the sued journalists and journalists and media, as well as other journalists who suffer daily pressures and intimidations, the intention of our boycott is to point to the tardiness of the situation in which the public service sues the media and journalists who report that public money is being spent and thus through a policy of intimidation and pressure is trying to further undermine media freedoms in Croatia. We therefore join the request of the Croatian Journalist Society, which requires HRT to dismiss all complaints against journalists and journalists and the media. So far, HRT has raised at least 36 and the total amount of damage claims requested by the public service is approaching the amount of 2.3 million kn. The official position of the European Federation of Journalists is that HRT is the worst public service in Europe at the level of independence. Although the problems on public television are numerous, we believe that pressing charges is a particularly problematic way of spending taxpayers and subscribers' money. This is so far an unrecorded practice in the operation of public services, which unfortunately has made us recognized in Europe. We call on all other interested, associations, trade unions, institutions and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia to join our initiative in solidarity and to engage in a boycott of HRT to a journalistic protest. We invite everyone who wants to join the boycott to publish this via Facebook event or Twitter, with hashtags, hashtag withdraw the lawsuits on your social networks and/or official websites. The organizations that supported this include, for example, the Autonomous Women's House Zagreb, the CESI Centre for Education, Consulting and Research, the Centre for Peace Studies and indeed numerous other organisations. Among other things, one other organization, the Association of Croatian Film Directors, which states in its statement that HRT systematically degrades the position of directors and directors, cuts to copyright rules, does not respect the quotas of independent production, does not produce content for children and young people, making such indescribable damage to the audio-visual industry and Croatian culture as a whole. I mean, if you don't think colleagues and colleagues, it's at least unusual and that it requires at least a very broad public debate. The fact that key professional associations, journalists and journalists speak of HRT like this, our system of culture is set up so that exactly HRT is one of its central institutions. Exactly how HRT can finance different content, it makes it very clear that it is the very institution that has one central place in the cultural production of the Republic of Croatia, but those who should produce these contents say that this institution humiliates them and deprives them of copyright and does not respect the quotas of independent production. It's at least, as I said, something worth a wide public debate and interest. We had a session of the Committee on Information, Information and Media on which we tried to sit on one side of the HRT administration and on the other hand all those who had sued and recommended, a request and a call from the committee on which they agreed and the opposition and ruling it was to try to find a solution. Here, just recently some kind of call from HRT went to only one part of those who were sued. At the same time, HRT has such a devastating low ratings, therefore, it is one trend that has been seen for several years, but this ratings has been so devastatingly low, and they are obviously bothered by the public's interest in low ratings, that recently the Agency for Electronic Media has stopped measuring ratings, among other things, the HRT, because now we can no longer know exactly how few people watch HRT. And that's the problem. Although, ratings, I want to say it here because I don't want to resort to populistism, public service ratings is not a basic criterion. Public service has, above all, the role of creating some additional value, some cultural value for our country, and also for its citizens and citizens above all, but it is very clear that this service is not doing so right now. What he does. Let's talk about it. Let's just say, just a few examples. There's been a lot of reports about how HRT hitched the NDH series, which she financed. So, for some reason, the content produced and paid for by Croatian citizens' money has simply never seen the light of day. Then, as the Society of Croatian Film Directors also says, there are very serious indications that the funds that are there for production, to finance production, at the very least, are allocated in a questionable way, which would require the very interest of the institutions involved. And of course, just one example of how HRT practically without discrimination brings different people to whom there should never be a place on Croatian public television, so, for example, on Good Morning, Croatia invited a neo-Nazi and homophobic, known for its praise to Antu Pavelic and spread it at the very least, so I'm going to say scary lies about how gay populations deliberately and consciously spread AIDS throughout Croatia. Therefore, such a person is invited as an authority for the tax system, among other things, to HRT. And then the question is, why don't people watch that TV? I think it's a good thing we're solemnly, better off than we've ever chosen a member of the HRT Supervisory Board. I think that HRT is in deep crisis, I think it is a deep injustice and citizens have to realise that HRT as one of the central institutions of culture in Croatia, citizens are intimidated and persecuted by journalists and media who should work precisely in the interests of citizens. Why? Because they questioned the financial situation and the other situation on HRT. This is very dangerous, as it is said, free media are one of the pillars of a democratic society, they do, they are one important element in that system of democratic fuses. So, better late than never. The club of independent MPs will certainly support this appointment. However, I also need to say something. The club of independent representatives, therefore, my colleagues Vučetic and Žagar and I, join the boycott of HRT until the protest. We also invite all citizens and citizens to join the HRT boycott and to realise that what is happening is extremely dangerous for them. This is not just about journalists and journalists, at the end of the day it is about that someone with their money is ultimately working to make citizens less informed, to have fewer sources of information diverse and different and ultimately, that those who should be one of the bearable pillars of democracy, to deny them the opportunity to act for work as well. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129973	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Gordan Maras will speak before the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129974	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow representatives, the Croatian citizens who are watching us today and following this debate and we can separate two topics, but which are necessarily connected to each other. So one appointment that we can agree on in HS in the hope that the persons appointed will work in a different way than they have done so far and that they will work in a way that will change both the work of HRT and justify in some way the public money invested in that institution. Croatian citizens each year give a billion kunas of their money to make HRT a correct and public service, to inform our citizens and to have a quality service. Instead, it happens in our court exactly the opposite. HRT is not fighting to support investigative journalism, that it has a higher quality of the programme than it is contrary to some of the activities we've heard a little while before, but it should also point out once again that it is choking journalistic freedom, precisely with its journalists who have worked correctly, professionally and in some ways carried HRT, and it is usually journalists from an information programme that should inform citizens about the everyday situations that are happening in the Republic of Croatia. HRT has filed over 30 lawsuits and has sought out the information that we have 2,3 million kuna compensations from its employees, including many longtime editors on that TV, who have never had such a problem before, but since the new leadership of HRT, since the pro-European Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ took over Croatia's leadership and named this leadership of HRT has since started a repression in our opinion that we haven't seen since the '90s, meaning what hasn't happened on HRT for many years. I personally co-operated with many of these journalists, never, but I never noticed an unprofessional approach, I often felt in the shows that they were asking some things that might not be pleasant to the opposition. But as soon as something is mentioned that is not at the will of the HDZ and the ruling coalition, then you get into trouble. So HRT should try and enable its journalists to work properly, critically review the authorities of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the prime minister, and not give journalists because of these moves that they have made consciously in our opinion in the leadership of HDZ, not HDZ, but this is almost the same thing, now I'm a little lapus, not in HDZ leadership, but in the leadership of HTV. But there could even be equality between one and the other. So they're consciously doing it to get people to do the press, to watch the shows, as we saw the other day where one young politician has a great hope for Prime Minister Plenkovic on Open de facto on modernising the show, tells 90% of the time, giving everyone lessons as if he's the greatest authority in the field of everything. In order to have such information shows, so as to have such journals, so as to have such public reporting, this is precisely why these lawsuits and pressures on journalists who are existentially threatened in this way and would be scandalous, it would be a first-class scandal, Croatia would be among the world's most indemnity countries that even one of these rulings in Croatian courts would pass and that people would have to pay compensation for the work they have done knowingly and honestly. Or in Croatia, I'm sure some people want it, but the vast majority of citizens don't want it, they don't want HTV that will be created at the will of one party, one government. He does not want HTV where the president will choose who will interview her and then not even an HTV employee is taken but is taken by an external associate who then, who then works because it is the aim of the president of the Republic of Croatia. He does not want HTV where Prime Minister Plenkovic will choose his journalists to interview him and then he is very likely to have an opportunity to influence which questions will be asked. He does not want an HTV on which, watch out for this information, so we have the most likely political commercial and corrupt affair, which is the purchase of the City of Zagreb City Assembly, where two MPs fled to Mayor Bandic overnight for inexplicable reasons, have not given a single amendment to adopt the budget but have raised their hands to keep the mayor and HDZ in power. And as HTV ends that contribution, with fireworks. So the budget was voted and the finale of the fireworks was as if it were a new year, as if something had been celebrated. So do we want such HTV gentlemen from HDZ, Mrs Glavak and others who listen to us here, do we want such an HTV that, I would say, suppresses the possibility of being critically questioned, that the authorities, Prime Minister Plenkovic and the President of the Republic are critically questioned? Or we want the HTV that all of us, who pay Croatian citizens and those who are watching us here today, who should be getting information that's real, which is made on research journalism where journalists aren't afraid to invite someone into the show or watch what the ratio is or what it's going to be, so I've been on HTV shows many times where people with discomfort commented you've been too hard on the government and HDZ, as an impression it's not a good impression, what the bosses, editors are going to say, etc. I don't want to talk like that, I'm talking almost HDZ again, but HDZ is like that, but I don't want that HTV, and I don't want to pay for that HTV, like 90%, probably and more, and the people of the Republic of Croatia don't want to pay for that kind of HTV. Let's think about it a little bit, think about whether the need for public money is to finance the media service of HDZ, Prime Minister Plenkovic and the ruling structures, Bandic Mayor etc. Or we want a media service that, I would say, here at least a little bit was depicted in the heroic act of Tatjana Munizab, who dared to announce the insurgency of Andrej Plenkovic here at HS on Grmo and Bulja. That's, say, why we need HTV. We need HTV because it's a typical example of Facebook news that the ruling party tried to impose, they wanted to show that nothing happened, that the prime minister didn't attack Bulja and Grmoja, and that Grmoja had escaped, that he wasn't a cameraman of HTV and that there were no professionals of Munizab and cameramen, I'm sorry that I don't know their names personally, that now here, to praise them publicly in front of the Croatian public, we would have bought the Facebook news lies that were told us by our colleagues from HDZ that Prime Minister Plenkovic had not attacked anyone, that Bulj and Grmoja had escaped from the hall and that it was one of the most normal situations. So that's why we need professional HTV, to show people the information that happened, to show that the prime minister ran here, that the Grmoya took a slow walk, or that he didn't move away from the hall and that we have professionals like Tatjana Munizab who were able to process and place it in the Dnevnik and later it was top news that was tomorrow in all other media. If it hadn't been for that, believe me, then Mrs. Poirot's words would have been. The head was true, she said the prime minister didn't turn up, and we saw all of what happened here and the footage that was shown, so trust either HDZ, Facebook news makers, or trust your eyes. I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia all believed in their eyes when they saw the prime minister headed towards, according to Grmoja and Bulj. So that I will always fight and SDP's Club of Representatives will always fight for that professionals can do their job, to protect people like Hrvoje Zovka, such as Sanja Mikleušević Pavić and others who are exposed to pressures and these claims that we get information from the Supervisory Board on what budget money was spent on, that journalists can work there freely, without any stress, so that they can ask questions they are interested in, that the president does not order who will interview her, that there are no Plenkovic journalists, that I will fight against it and the SDP Representatives' Club will fight and therefore we also support colleagues and colleagues in this protest in the Press Society because we think that this is one of the pillars of our democracy that should be defended. Believe me, this isn't anything, this is a struggle that tomorrow people who create news in HDZ can't have an open field for Facebook news that is constant, who are those who want to create what the situation in the Republic of Croatia is in line with what it really is. And that is why I say once again, it is very important how this Committee will continue to work, how HTV will work, and whether journalists will succeed in defending themselves against such attacks as I said earlier. Full support to colleagues from, colleagues of, to, and from, the accused journalists of HTV, we want our public service not to be at the rank of the European Federation of Journalists in the last place in the EU, we do not want, as a colleague before me, to be called as relevant guests and as those who should be able to interpret what is good in a particular sphere of our society, people who respect icons that should be ashamed of our past, which extend homophobia, which extends homophobia in a way, as said by a colleague Glavasevic, to gevas deliberately expand AIDS in the Republic, such people have nothing to do as guests on HTV and there are no more to call and open space for them because it is not, such persons are not at all persons who should have room for public action in a modern, quality, free, transparent, fair, fair, just society. And on the other hand, I want HRT to be a house where censorship won't be, unfortunately, at this point, the impression is that there's a lot of censorship on HTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129975	Thank you, too, Mr. Maras. We've got one, we've got one, one breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we'll get word to Mrs. Credentials now. The Sun Glavak is about what it is and what article it refers to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Art. 238, I believe you noticed, my colleague Maras called my name several times here. Comrade Maras, my name is not Antonija Petrićušić, Mrs. which we should talk about today, which is proposed for a member of the Supervisory Board. My God, a man can say anything in 15 minutes, so when you're so careful to settle debts, that the finances are fine, then I can only ask you if you've settled 4.3 million kunas of debt from the TV Sljemen campaign, so that they can work too?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129977	Thank you, time. Now, well, let's wait until I answer this. May I? Thank you. Well, I was getting the impression that at least the first time you mentioned a colleague, Maras, was jealous that you didn't listen to him and I figured it out that it was that way, and frankly out of the ordinary that you were talking to a representative, MPs, MPs, but I didn't get the impression it was offensive, he was a good critic, but we're here to talk. So I've given you the opportunity to react to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I understand your reasons, but they're not enough to warn you, to understand, they're not enough to warn you. And now I will give my word to the gentleman, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really didn't understand what Mrs. Glavak was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129979	But you, but you, but what's your article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129980	My article is the same 238 Because Mrs. Glavak is a liar, so I don't know why I would have to pay someone something because I'm not anybody but a bank where I have the same residential credit, so on that side it's really not clear to me, and you're right that Mrs. Glavak [[Intruder: Same 238. ok.]] She didn't have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'd like you to follow this rule if you don't. [[Intruder: Time.]] You did not warn her to continue giving no warning and [[Thank you very much.]] Keep going. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129981	No good, I won't give any warning, I can only say who makes Istrian that I agree with you too, thank you very much. Let's move on with the representatives' clubs. Mr. Boris Milosevic in front of SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129982	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs today we are discussing the completion of the Croatian Supervisory Board, the procedure has been carried out and it is now up to us to discuss the proposed name here and to vote afterwards. The Supervisory Board is an important body within the house itself according to the Law on HRT and the Statute of the Supervisory Board has great powers, these are important powers, and the Supervisory Board itself, or the work of the Supervisory Board itself, is actually the supervisory board that corresponds to this high home, so it is directly to us and therefore it is very important that we have a quality-filled supervisory board so that we can be able to discuss the report of the Supervisory Board here to have the right picture of what is happening on HRT. The proposed candidate meets the formal conditions and in this case I give faith to the committee responsible who suggested that she do her job well on the supervisory board, that it will be a quality fit, and at this point we need it because the situation on HRT is bad, not bad from today, not bad from yesterday, it's bad for a long time, if we look at the last few years maybe longer. Both on the left and right of the assembly, a number of MPs spoke about HRT expressed dissatisfaction with the situation in HRT and with business and with editorial policy and cited numerous and individual examples, but overall everyone expressed concern and desire for the state of the HRT to go better but unfortunately this did not happen in my assessment. Some individual examples have been cited in today's debate, and I will also say one example that has made me particularly distracted, and that was what I was talking about before, presenting the book on Jasenovac where it is denied, not only denying that a holocaust happened, but denying that any crime happened. And on top of that, we have statements in the media of some responsible people from HRT that there was a failure there was no other side. If the failure occurred only because there was no other side then we can expect that logic next time we are, for example, to mark the day of the Holocaust, the World Holocaust Day, so we bring in some holocaust expert so there will be no editorial failure to have a leader on the other side and a holocaust negator, so the other side that will represent negativity. Otherwise, the representatives of the SDSS repeatedly expressed their dissatisfaction with the HRT on meeting the obligations of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities but did not only express the SDSS's representatives this was also the advice, the Government's Council for National Minorities, expressed dissatisfaction with the content of the minority programme on HRT, the lack of staff, the education of personnel dealing with minority problems, the most actually lack of broadcasting and production of programmes in the languages of national minorities. A number of meetings were held with HRT representatives, were called, editors and members of the HRT Directorate were invited, and the Director-General himself and the Council meetings, at all these sessions discussed these matters, numerous conclusions were made to HRT, letters were sent to HRT, but all of us gathered in the council including representatives of national minorities were placed by HRT on the ignorer. So there's been no movement all these years. What has been particularly worrying lately are lawsuits against journalists. Our media, especially lately, and journalists are personally buried in lawsuits. And in this atmosphere of news façade, hate speech, numerous lawsuits and worrying court practices that satisfactorily treats as the actual news that needs to be questioned, we have a situation that HRT as a public service has resorted to a foreign prosecutor and that of its own journalists. So I wonder if it's actually the role of HRT as a public service? It is therefore alarming that we have over 1000 and 100 claims and that HRT itself has about 34 lawsuits against the media, various media and journalists, as well as against its own journalists and even against even the president of the professional association of the Croatian Journalist Society. This is a clear violation of media freedoms and of the European Convention on Human Rights. And in other European countries we have lawsuits against the media and lawsuits against journalists, it's not exclusive anywhere. So it happens everywhere but only in Croatia, or in all Member States of the Council of Europe, in Croatia alone, we have a situation for public service to sue journalists. So no public service anywhere in Europe, anywhere in the 47 members of the Council of Europe, we have an example of a public service suing journalists. Especially not to sue your own journalists. With all the problems HRT has had, HRT has actually decided not to solve anything but to face the press, it is to me to play theater absurde. Instead of taking care of how to increase the independence of HRT, how to strengthen the role of public service, HRT loses the audience, loses public confidence, loses friends, loses allies to harm and unfortunately all of us here and also viewers who like to watch HRT. HRT is the strongest media in the region, has the strongest reputation, has access to audiences of over 20 million people, can create public opinion much wider than Croatian, none of it works, does nothing but, in fact, now regretting the persecution of journalists and how can HRT justify making such bad moves? These are the worst moves the HRT has made from its own draft. Those moves can't be justified, they can only be fixed and can only be corrected by withdrawing charges. The one who proposed to HRT's leadership to press charges, he did HRT a bear service, and he doesn't deserve to be at the public service. Just as an example, just as one plastic example, I'm going to file a lawsuit against Weekly National, so two lawsuits have been brought through two law firms for the same thing, so for the same thing, damage to reputation and honor, in one lawsuit is sought 20,000 kuna, in another 200,000 kuna. Under the Law on the Prosecution, the action which was later brought will therefore be obtained in the process only that lawsuit which was filed earlier and the costs of the lawyer and court, the HRT will pay for both charges. It's actually the best illustration of bad business and bad decision-making in this matter. I can only profit from law firms here. Regardless of the results of these court proceedings, HRT can get everything, it can earn more than 2 million kuna, but in the long run HRT will be a very big loser. Therefore, I also appeal to the leadership of the house but especially to the supervisory board that we are filling today, which is responsible for the legitimate business of HRT to break this practice of embarrassing this public house. The charges must be dropped. On behalf of the SDSS club, I also express my support for the protest and the boycott, and of course I support Mrs. SDSS's appointment. Petrichusic to the HRT Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129983	Thank you, Mr. Milosevic. Mr Davor Vlaović will now speak for himself or for the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129984	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the view of the HSS Club is that, of course, the HRT as a public service must function and must function by acting or providing public service as our citizens seek and deserve and that the Supervisory Board has an important role to play in controlling the business and spending of public money. And the Information Committee has proposed a new member, it has passed the procedure and we believe that in this sense everything is ok and always the Proposer says it is the best choice and that it is best for HRT and that is where we agree, however, whether it really is Mrs. which has been proposed to observe the current period of work of the HRT Supervisory Board and whether these supervisory committees have worked best in the interest of all of us, both in the interests of all citizens and the institutions themselves. The fact is that if you do not respect the will of the ruling majority, you will be removed. The best example is the monitoring committee in which Mrs. Devereaux was respected. Anja Sovagovic Despot because the committee's supervision has reported to the leadership its management for illegal business. And what happened? They've been cleared and this has been covered up. I don't have any feedback on whether there's any investigation or if anyone was killed because of it. It's just saying that Mrs. which is proposed in the Supervisory Board should congratulate her on the courage to catch up with this job because we see that if she does not listen to the current government, she will pass as a previous supervisory board and if she points out any irregularities that she would have to, that she will be resolved. And what do we have left? We are left with HRT which citizens are not satisfied with, and we are also not satisfied with HSS because, as most clubs before me have said, censorship is present, that journalists, who are going to do the interview, are going to choose questions, and if not, what awaits it is either resolved or removed from the position of head of a show or even here, the lawsuit. It is a shame that 30 journalists are being prosecuted and public television is doing so. Unfortunately, this is what happens in Croatia, and unfortunately, most citizens think about it, and that is one reason why this government does not work well, that Croatia is going in a bad direction, however, and international organisations, which study and monitor freedoms of democracy and public media, and HRT also say that there are bad relations and that it is a bad state. Premer Plenkovic and the government say it is a malicious informing of international organisations, that it is not a real state, that journalists can write anything they want. And if it were true, then there wouldn't be any of these 30 lawsuits, then there would be more investigative journalism on HRT then there would be more objective information on one side, the other and the third in each of the problems or items written or spoken about in public media. What we can see is that there is censorship, that journalists get fired, that they get shifts, and that unfortunately they are also tried, that is, being prosecuted against them. What we at HSS are also not satisfied with, is that a large number of correspondence, local regional level, has been shut down, that the number of journalists and what the objection is here from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, I believe from like, Dalmatia from Zagor, that few shows from these parts, that little news from these parts, and that is why most of our citizens say, so I won't pay a subscription, because there's no news from my region, there are positive examples and there people want to live and work, but unfortunately, they're not present on the public media, the public service of HRT. I can't come. And it's simply unacceptable and it has to change, which is what we of HSS expect from the new member of the Supervisory Board to change this editorial policy and this can't be done alone, nor is this the role of the Supervisory Board, but it is our proposal to conduct one thematic session in the Croatian Assembly on the state of the HRT and around these financial malversions that nothing has been done but covered up, and the programme itself, about the availability itself, because unfortunately today you still have settlements where the HRT signal is not available. And they have to pay the subscription, and many didn't want it, and that's why they're done, and it's embarrassing that HRT used well, that makes it possible for it to go on top of our citizens, but without informing people, without realizing why they didn't pay it, most of them wouldn't pay because they don't have a signal and others that they're not satisfied that they don't have the opportunity to see some news from their neighborhood, but they're just looking at what they seem to be responding to. I also want to say here that the quality of the program is not good and that it is unacceptable that some of the important events are not at the public service, but we have to pay some packages to other private televisions. So here's today's historic game of our Dinah we can't watch her on HRT on HTV she's gone. I think it is for every conviction and that such a policy of leadership of our HRT must change and I expect the new Supervisory Board to change such policies and point to these irregularities and we expect the rulings not to get too involved in this editorial policy. Because we see that they're bright and they're dressing, but it's more dark than it is in public service, and that's why the citizens are unhappy with us from the HSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129985	Thank you, too. Now is the moment when we will welcome students and students of the 16th Zagreb High School. They're here with us and we're glad they're with us. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Let's move on, now we'll speak to the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129986	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the annual HRT sends over, or, about 100,000 of these, at least until recently. I doubt a new member of the HRT Supervisory Board will change anything about that. However, what is crucial is that the law firms again carry out their CROMAC and if I have read well in the media again, Hanžekovic's lawyership. What's going on? You have an unpaid subscription from, say, 80 kn, to the expense of a public notary lawyer and the procedure, the FINA takes its fee when it takes the money off your account and we come to the amount of, say, 700, even 800 kn. And because of these HRTs, many citizens are actually with blocked accounts, some are even blocked to amounts that are measured in thousands of kunas and actually work for HRT subscription rather than for themselves. Such practice should be put to the end, and I now and from this place call on Croatian citizens to boycott HRT because, unfortunately, HRT keeps many citizens in simulated reality. It means, there, it's David... Explains, there's perception and there's truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if all the media, including HRT, reports that a journalist, Arkady Babchenko, was killed in Ukraine, people would believe it was true because the media created such perception. Later on, two messiahs will announce that he was never killed. But at the time the media was saying that Arkadi Babchenko was killed, including HRT, people were actually convinced of a lie, and in that way they were actually making false news, it's not the only false news, it's the HRT of its time. I'm not sure if HRT is, but all the Western media are. Most Western media reported that Iraq owns a weapons of mass destruction. Iraq had no weapons of mass destruction, but the perception that the media created was that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction, later the country was attacked, bombed, people died, etc. The question that we are asking here today is whether the media, including HRT, are in service of a particular agenda, an agenda aimed at fulfilling the will of the ruling ones, or whose goal is to manipulate over broad masses, convince them that everything is great, that everything is fine, and that the country is failing, disappears, etc. By my judgment, I have a feeling that HRT is unfortunately in the service of manipulation, and I will also say why, because we currently have an acute problem in HR, which is the disappearance of our inhabitants, we and that no one is moving out of HR, we have a very low birth rate problem, very few children are born. When the number of people who are born, or from negative growth, is taken away by people who are moving out of the country, we in the Republic of Croatia have a rapid decline in the population or depopulation of our country. On HRT, unfortunately, I have not noticed that this problem is adequately spoken of, this should be reported in every journal and should be requested by the Government to find a solution to the problem, to help parents in some way, to keep young people in some way, etc. However, instead, ha, the HRT boasts that everything is great, that the country is going in the right direction, to live better than before, yes, and that all economic indicators are good etc. However, the question arises whether it's a reality or whether it's a simulated reality? In my court, it's about manipulation or actually concealing real figures by HDZ, and HRT is giving space to HDZ people what they want, and you've recently had a chance to see it on the show Open, he's been visiting Mr. Restler and he could actually talk as much as he wanted in Studio, and our colleague Damir Grunbaum, e, he's been talking a lot less, then the manager told him later as you should've been forced as, and imagine which paradox as Mr. Restler, he, when he talked, didn't quite break it, he didn't exactly get into his word, he could lamentate there about HDZ successes, in fact, without any obstruction, and the successes of HDZ are such that today, when he wasn't a sovereign state, that 2/3 of the laws that come from Brussels, is the result that the people that the banks who have been poured out of the EU's trust that are still unreputed by the law that the EU. But the question is, what exactly does each of us mean, every citizen, including the students from the gallery, us who are in opposition to HS, and all the other people who are currently in our country, can make them resist HRT. My call is to massively cancel the HRT subscription, I personally do not pay the HRT fee, I call on all Croatian citizens to cancel it and what is crucial that once the HRT subscription is cancelled, you must ask HRT for confirmation that the receiver is indeed checked out. Yeah, if you don't have a black on white, confirmation of receiver logout, people are telling me that they're getting their executions even though they canceled their subscription. Now, that sounds amazing to me, and I don't want to believe HRT's doing it, but I asked that boy if you have confirmation of a checkout, he says, I don't. Well, you didn't ask for confirmation. So it's mandatory on paper to ask for confirmation of logout. The second thing, these days, there's a HRT controller on the HR and what people say, let's say the HRT controller comes to you, asks if you have TV and you say no, I don't, he asks if you have a radio, you say no, I don't, and then he asks you well, do you have a laptop and you say that I have, ha, you have to pay the HRT subscription. So, when the HRT controller comes to you, if you say you have a laptop, a cell phone or any other device that you might be receiving in theory the HRT signal right away, if you don't have it, and my guess is of course you don't have it, you have to say I don't have any of it. So if you say one wrong word, and those HRT controllers are specializing in getting you on thin ice, in a slippery area, there's a possibility that you'll say like, I have a cell phone or, say, you're going to open the door, you don't know who it is, with a cell phone in your hand, you say ha, he says, uh, sir you have a cell phone, how you're saying you don't have a cell phone right now. So it's important that when someone knocks on your door first to ask who they are, that's what they taught us when we're little parents to behave like that and when they say, if we're not sure who's on the other side or if it's the HRT controller just say I don't have a receiver, I don't have a HRT signal, and absolutely nothing the HRT signal could be received with. Then the controller will ask you as well, as if I could by some chance check it out, I even heard about anecdotal cases that people have, say, opened the door to the controller and that the controller was trying like that, I'm not going to say, "I'm not going to sneak in, but I'm going to push in." Well, they absolutely need students to know what's waiting for them tomorrow when HRT controls them, sir. [[Intruder: That you, that you, the gallery assure or who?]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sir has that folk saying the devil never sleeps, needs to be ready and safe. [[/Intruder: They're minors, they're minors, aren't they?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129987	... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129988	For if they are minors, they will not remain forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129989	Let's get on with the subject, let's get on with the subject, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129990	And I'm saying that, so they might try to get into your apartment, but don't let them enter your apartment because they don't have the right to do that. Under the Constitution, home is protected and no one has the right without a court order to enter your home. So you have to stand up to the HRT controllers, not let them in the apartment, and I just resolutely take a stand I don't have any HRT signal receivers. If you won't take such a stand, what could happen? Hey, here come the bill for the HRT subscription. And now if you don't pay one bill, what's yours waiting for? There's going to be some work to be done. You've got a lot of expenses ahead of you. So my recommendation is to avoid these costs of execution in a simple way to simply cancel the HRT subscription. And that's what you essentially do if you're wise enough to protect you from the exercise regardless of who's elected member of the HRT Supervisory Board. Because the HDZ or HRT administration designated by the HDZ will continue to request a subscription. I have one more thing to mention, some might say, well, Mr. Pernar, you're telling us a lot of things now like what you've specifically done to stop the HRT subscription? So the Living Wall sent a law to the Parliament to abolish the HRT subscription, but the ruling majority, among others HDZ, Bandic and the group, rejected the law around them. So the Living Wall stands with HRT subscribers, the Living Wall opposes the fact that private law offices do the work for HRT and the Living Wall invites citizens to boycott the HRT subscription, invites them to cancel the subscription and actually do not let the HRT controllers in the apartment and necessarily if they ask you if you have anything, which HRT signal receiver you have to say. And with the conclusion, HRT controllers have no right to enter your apartment no matter what they say. And in the event of a TV receiver logout, you have to ask HRT for a paper that says the device is out. If you do not have that paper, this confirmation that the device has been checked out of the HRT is possible to complete you anyway. You say so, but I checked out HRT subscription but they tell you ha, ha, it's possible anything. Is it deliberate, whether human error, human factor, is completely irrelevant. He says that, I think a politician was talking Churchill maybe even "Seeing is believing" I'll believe it when I see it. That's how you always have to be ready for the worst. She says she thinks, thinks best, prepare for the worst. So necessarily, it is better not to try happiness with these performances, it is better to cancel the HRT subscription, it is better to have confirmation of the HRT reception and not to let the incasators into the house but to live in fear or under the tasks that are unfortunately quite certain in Croatia. Unfortunately. Everyone good and smart in the head. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129991	Okay. Now it's, we start with individual debates. It's Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this topic, that is, the Croatian War, the Supervisory Committee and everything that is related to it, I can understand, because of the revolt of the citizens I also feel, in fact, this debate of my colleague Pernar, but in principle I would rather have the public service in the Republic of Croatia do its job in a quality way. There is a need for objective reporting, there is a need for a quality documentary program. So you see that even in the 50s or something, I don't know now, probably a little less not to say wrong year now, some basic values haven't been adopted. So when we talk about the old Ustasha greetings, she needs an adviser to tell her whether it's right or wrong, or whether it's an old Croatian or Ustasha greeting that is inadmissible for me in Croatia and sends a wrong message and which should be sanctioned. It's an embarrassing part for our country, a period that the Kwlinspess state tried to build relations with Italy and Germany and was on the wrong side. That's what I'd say to the representatives of our people who have brought us shame. Those who freed Croatia have returned Croatia to the victory side in World War II and made it possible for us to have a Croatian country that is a member of the EU today. So, given that the presidents of the Republic too, Mr. Vice President, it is obvious that this type of education in mature years is also necessary to educate the citizens in quality of the HTV programme and send them a message. And that's why I think HTV should perform its function in this way because it's usually not, because it's mostly not commercial programs but it's good to remind her, and maybe this Tajani from the EU how Trieste was released, maybe it's good to remind Tajani from the EU that she ended up an episode also embarrassing from Italian history when they were also on the wrong side of evil during World War II. It should be reminded of those people who are clearly being audited for certain things, who are taking possession of Croatia's Dalmatia and Istria and thus sending false messages, non-European messages, and who are at the head of the EU's parliament. And I'm not even reluctant Mr. Vice President to make one such documentary, perhaps with titles and in Italian for example viewers who might be interested, such as Antonio Tajani, who obviously doesn't know and doesn't know what was going on here and is sending false audit messages to our Dalmatia and our Istria, whom we're proud of, which are part of our homeland, and to introduce him to the fact that Trieste has set free so that he'll be aware of it. So, HRT has one of its own roles and should have it, but unfortunately at this point it doesn't meet. He doesn't meet her. So, we have a situation where HTV is more concerned, HRT pardons, more dealing with problems with its journalists, as they report, whether they speak about HRT in one way or another, whether they are doing their job in one quality way and suing them with Croatian courts and in this way trying to, I would say, that is my impression, to introduce a kind of censorship on HRT and therefore once again give full support to Croatian journalists. They are at this point one of the most prominent individuals on the defender of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. And once again, I'm going to say, that there are no such brave individuals on the radio and that HRT would have been completely dark long ago. And I don't need those names at all, as you would say, not to press charges, but to give them the confession of both Mr. Zovko and Mrs. Mikleušić Pavić, but also those who fight continue to give information there to expose fake news that places HDZ on us like Mrs. Munizab, I'm going to say it one more time, which exposed the facts of HDZ news during the incident with Andrej Plenkovic here in the Parliament. When's Mrs. Devereaux? Glavak claimed that Grmoja had escaped without Mr. Plenkovic hitting on anyone, the HRT released the recording and showed what had happened there and revealed the lies of HDZ, the government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the situation. And that's why we need HRT, but at this point, that they don't do their job, they don't deserve Croatian citizens to pay them public money in that way because they don't give them what they're supposed to give in return. I said, a situation where you have a registered political trade in the city's assembly where the mayor Bandic and HDZ tear up and buy a de facto political majority, they end up with fireworks. With a celebration. He says, there's been a vote in the city council, and then you have as if it's New Year's Eve, ending 10 seconds of fireworks of someone they've taken, in addition to those glory, more, minors more glory than those who've breathed at the Holding have been arrested by HDZ, etc. So here we have a part on one television, one of the MPs who passed from my party Bandic to Deputy Director of Wales. So is that normal for you? Is this the way to work in the city of Zagreb? Is that why the Zagrebers pay their taxes? To be politically traded? I'm looking here, here are representatives from the Milan Bandic Club, Mr. Vard is looking at the floor. I'd be embarrassed, too. I'd be uncomfortable in his place, too. He almost left the first day. Got several hundred votes on the list where I was first and immediately at Bandic's. It's a matter of political culture and standards in the Republic of Croatia. HRT needs and HTV needs to judge it, so we need public service, and not that we stayed at the end, which, every honor, is right, when we watch TVs like N1, there's no TV like N1, so there's no N1, we wouldn't have that daily service at all. The HRT 4th program cannot be worn, but is not comparable to the N1 and the objectivity and approach that this television cherishes and how it works because if it did not, we would have HRT 4 that conveys where people are afraid to ask and what will be the impression after the show of whether they attacked Plenkovic or the president too much. So there are no private initiatives, though, although I can probably be with N1 grateful to HRT for that because otherwise they wouldn't have that kind of ratings. If there were no private initiatives, N1, RTL and NOVA, Croatia would not have had objective reporting, at least as far as day-to-day policy issues are concerned, it would be a situation to choose the ruling journalists who will interview them, so we saw it at the president, as she chose some colleagues, they even boasted about it. Why, say, HTV didn't sue those colleagues to disprove their allegations that journalists could choose when the president came or ruling the HRT? So, to finish, we need a different public service, we give full support and full support to HRT journalists to fight for their status and work independently as we should, and once again I support the stronger work of the documentary programme for those who have not well mastered the lessons of history, such as President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic and EU Parliament President Antonia Tajani, who has embarrassingly audited our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129993	Thank you, let's say thank you and you, but I have to remind you of two things, the first thing is that I hope that you belong to a generation, too, that's for every generation, which is not elegantly mentioned in the years of a lady, even if it was the President of the Republic, even if she was the President of the Republic, it's not elegant, and you're concerned about elegance. And the other thing is, we haven't figured out on what date you've been dealing with Trieste, the one that's been at the end of the 4th month, or the 40 days later. We haven't figured that out yet. We only realized that you were talking about this subject and putting it in Mr. Tajani's mouth, to which other things should be put, but the release of Trieste did not. Let's move on. What, from who? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129994	Thank you very much President, you violated article 238, because you did not interpret what the parliamentary representative meant, he wanted to say what he said, and fellow MPs commented on what Tajani said, it is clear to everyone that he gave a fascist statement, that he wanted to usurp his statement to Dalmatia and Istria, and that is the fact that he is a fascist man who heads the European Council parliament, You don't have that right. [[Time, Mr. Bull time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129995	Time, I was talking about liberating Trieste I didn't talk about what he said about Istria, Rijeka, Dalmatia, and about these topics I distanced myself if at all more times than you distanced yourself from Mr. Bulj, more times. More times than you've distanced yourself, I've distanced myself. And now we have, don't take advantage of it, by talking about the release of Trieste, I don't know why you mentioned the release, which we care about. The liberation of Trieste is one situation that historians have to deal with and everything that's happened there. What do we have to say today about the release of Trieste, when history has shown quite a difference after either you're, or you're dealing with theology, no. That's when Stalin was still taking care, no. And the replica, the first replica was sought by Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129996	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Maras, the index of democracy in these last 3 years, never again, and in fact the situation on HRT is public television, in some way laxish paper of the state of democracy in Croatia. Besides that for the last 3 years, actually because of this government, I never have, therefore, any support and incentives for independent and research and critical journalism, so now we also have to prevent journalists from doing their jobs and doing it on public television. And what is really crucial and tragic is that Plenkovic, therefore, Prime Minister Plenkovic says and actually goes down with his shoulders and says that he won't actually be told about the state of democracy from outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129997	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129998	Thank you very much, colleague. When we talk about this topic, it is clear that in Croatia, so it should not be too directed into the topic, nor too much to follow, when HRT reports its journalists, asks their journalists for money, quits them, so after the lawsuit returns them, then suspends them from doing so, perhaps they can afford to have nearly 3,000 employees, but this reflects the state of democracy by defeat. I say once again, that HRT performs its function, so even if I were to make one film, let's say a documentary, which could then be sent to Mr. Tajani, how the people of Sinj or Imotsky or the Dalmatian Burns release Trieste, that would be wonderful, if Mr. Tajani had sent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u129999	Thank you. Mrs. Glavak, ideology is difficult for... Yes, Glavak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I realized that you're a passive viewer of HRT and other television channels, which is great, I didn't know you were an excellent editor, but I see you'd be happy to edit some programs. Well, then, you need to requalify yourself. I didn't know that I was in your focus today, and if you want to tell me anything, you can have no problem, publicly, on coffee, however you want, but if we want to compromise on things that concern media space, then I ask you not to get into the rights of journalists, fight for their rights, yes but not in a way, so that you or anyone in this country can edit something. In addition, you've confused absolutely all the powers of the supervisory board, the programming board, the administration, there's no one alive, it can't connect to anything. And what you're very weak at, and it's not this hall, it's across the street, it's the city hall, and in that I can't help you, it's going to have to choose you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130001	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130002	Thank you very much, Mrs. Glavak. You're no longer a journalist. You're a politician. And I recommend that you don't deal with spins and fake news, that's what my recommendation is to you and I have no problem with it, but we as politicians, who open certain topics, have to discuss it, so we can't discuss it at the coffee shop. The citizens of our political attitudes must hear. I know that HDZ works that way, away from the public, that they can't hear us and that they don't know in any way what we're discussing. But I just want to argue with you in front of Croatian citizens, so they can hear what is my position and what is yours. Just as they could see with their eyes what happened in the assembly, when it was Prime Minister Plenkovic, and what you were telling them before, you said that he didn't make a move, people saw him fall. You were saying that Grmoya escaped, and he didn't run away, so we have to debate in front of Croatian citizens so that they can see what we say and who they will believe. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130003	Thank you, too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Art. 238. colleague Maras accuses me of producing fake news, I ask you nicely, colleague Maras, to gather yourself together a little bit and not to tell lies and lies here, regardless of what you are protected by parliamentary immunity, but you are simply lying and insinuating and that should be said enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130005	Mr. Maras, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Maras, as I chair, I decide when I'm going to talk about one and another possible injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130006	Okay, otherwise the Rules of Procedure define it immediately, but okay, you can also unite You can only return time, please. [[I can, yes, but it's not up to you to say it, it's up to you to say what article. /]] Art. It's 238, Mrs. Devereaux. [[Intruder: I am not God, only God can bring back time.]] The head said I was lying. Well, people heard. - Mrs. Crescent. Glavak said the prime minister didn't turn up, the man ran into Bul and Grmoja, and when he was coming back, his tie was completely, I mean, it was the scene of an incredible hormonal attack on our prime minister, but it was seen that he came across. And you said it wasn't. And on the other hand, you said the bush ran away and didn't run away. Then who doesn't tell the truth, Mrs. A head? Thank you very much, I just once again said that it was Mrs. Poirot. [[Intruder: Here, I can extend a little bit, you have another 10 seconds. I can't turn back time, but I can extend it.]] Glavak worked fake news here, explained to the Croatian public something that did not happen That's what I was gonna say. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130007	Well, you've said what you think, and now we're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Lenart is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130008	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm glad there's such a cheerful atmosphere in the Parliament, we're laughing a little bit about what's going on. As for the appointment of Mrs. Crescent. Antonija Petričusic for a member of the Supervisory Board and whether or not she will work well should show time and give the woman a chance to show what she knows or doesn't know. Given its qualifications, it has potential and I believe that if it is independent, it will not be under the hands of someone from the ruling set, that it can contribute much to HRT's work. Unfortunately, the former Supervisory Board has angered HDZ because it has reported to the authorities the operation of the HRT administration and is why they are simply angry. What is an impression in the Croatian people, if you talk to and communicate with them, that HRT has become a regimeal television, that the quality of the program has fallen greatly and that the program as such becomes uninteresting to Croatian viewers who, by the way, pay 80 kuna every month, are about a million and 230 thousand, which is at a monthly level about 95 million kuna subscription. People for that money, which may mean nothing to someone, and it means a lot to someone, don't get what the viewers get. The subscribers are expecting it. Today, instead of HRT, you watch more NEW TV, RTL, and even in the evenings and DOMA TV because they offer a better quality program and more fun than HRT. What made this happen? This is also a question for the Supervisory Board and for the Programme Council, but also for all of us here and the HSS is inclined to seek and to hold a thematic session on the state of the HRT, on the work of the programme council, on performances towards citizens who cannot pay for the subscription of HRT and on why major sports events, such as football matches of Croatian clubs, are no longer transferred to HRT. Unfortunately, HDZ is making more effort in the PR than in solving problems in the Republic of Croatia. So, from economics and to this on HRT because, I don't know, the PR is the most important for the development of the Republic of Croatia, as well as Croatian television. It is clear to all that, despite the fact that HRT has a large number of high-quality journalists, who have very high potential and can produce the highest quality programme in the Republic of Croatia, however, those who determine what will be published and how it will be published are those who are holding back the ratings and the programme itself that is being rejected on HRT. HRT has a lot of time on stage, HRT is the oldest public service, as far as the media is concerned on television and we simply cannot allow it to go into a break-in where everyone, a little bit of the citizens, condemn what is being shown and how it is manipulated with HRT. And since, as a nation as it is, it always follows the situation around and always describes it with its proverbs or jokes, so, since, well, sometimes I can tell a few stories, I'm going to tell one about the television where a certain gentleman brought his TV to the mechanics and this guy asks him, so good thing you brought me a TV, I don't fix TVs. He says the TV is right, but I would ask you to install a wiper on the front of the TV because some of my hosts can't hold back while watching the Croatian television diary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130009	Thank you, Mr. Lenart, you have one replica from Mrs. Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130010	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague Lenart, without entering your sense of humor, I think this last sentence was completely inappropriate, but you will conclude it yourself. What I'd like to say to you would be good if you were discussing HRT if we could adopt at least what the monitoring board is doing, what management is doing, what the programming council is doing. To adopt the minimum principles for HRT is the Croatian contract and the Croatian Government, HRT is not here to compete with private televisions even though we all want it to have a quality program, to have credible information. HRT is there to cover, for example, the educational program, all our villages and cities through their correspondence that are added value, to have an educational programme, to have a minority programme. So these are topics that need to be dealt with by HRT, so you're wrong and you don't know the matter, and I'd like you to meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130011	The answer to Mr. Lenart's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130012	Mrs. Glavak, I'm glad you know the matter, so we're all a little short, but my God, my nature is so merciless to us. HRT has 4 programs and can easily display the entire leper on its 4 entertainment programs to education and have potentials through journalists like I said, but the one who determines what will obviously have no potential, and even less the one who commands it to be. However, it is important for the brew to be the most representative and to be controlled on HRT. About 95 million kunas a month that private televisions do not get I think HRT should have a far better quality program than televisions dealing with commercial means of financing its programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130013	Thank you, too, Mr. Lenart. Now he's having an individual debate, Mr. Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130014	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I have almost promoted you, I have almost promoted you, I have said the Honorable President, and I have corrected myself, and I have said the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, yet I thank you. No problem. [[We're still gonna take this time, I mean, let's be clear. Here you go.]] Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, HRT should be a public service, meeting the needs of Croatian citizens, citizens and citizens for information, should meet the needs of citizens and citizens to be informed about what is extremely important to them. HRT has not completed its task and has not completed its task. It has turned into a service of political parties, and above all, those parties that rule, and that is devastating. I'll tell you a concrete example and concrete evidence, a concrete argument that it is so. It is 125,000 Croatian families, 125,000 Croatian families are covered by a collective court ruling in the Franak case. First, in March 2018, a verdict found that there is no statute of limitations for all 125,000 families, if they go to private courts, in their private court disputes. HRT did not find it necessary to hire, to pay for a legal expert who would study the situation in the Franak case, because it is a 125,000 family, meaning it is about 400,000 maybe even up to 500,000 people concerned, did not find it appropriate to find a legal expert who would study all this and who would then publicly inform the people of their rights. After that, a powerful collective court ruling was passed in June and was published in July 2018, which definitely found that banks also negotiated unfair interest and an unfair currency clause for CHF. Once again HRT does not fulfil its duty, in the journal does not inform about it, the main shows are not full of information about it, the show Open is never one dedicated to it, that case, again no one professional talks about it, but there on some show in the afternoon that replaced Croatia with a much better quality in this regard, something is said about it, and journalists have no idea what this is about. It's the misery and misery of the HRT for me. In such a way, it is not a public service but rather a means of ignoring people in a way that prevents them from following the program at all. On the other hand, I have to say the same thing that my colleague Maras said, the N1 is much more dedicated to civil problems and much more information about it. I don't know what will happen now that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia makes some new decisions again, whether we have a right to compensation after conversion and a decision on bank audits. If, then, the journal of the HRT will be dedicated to the subject for 5 minutes, whether to invite someone who understands it into the diary, whether to hire a legal expert to speak of it in quality, whether to call on the President of the Supreme Court or the President of the Civil Court to talk about it, whether the subject of the day will be dedicated to it, because so far has not happened. So far it's been information somewhere in a corner that no one's ever noticed anywhere. I don't consider that kind of television and that kind of radio a public service. This is the service that I have said first of all to the free brewery of HDZ, because it allows someone to talk about something that is less important for a few minutes and fills the space needlessly and that citizens simply give up and not watch that TV but go to another programme and do not follow Croatian television at all. Here I appeal from here to HRT, to those who manage this television, to the Supervisory Board to pay a little more attention to the problems of Croatian citizens, and I expect that when some new rulings of the Supreme Court are made to speak more about it, to speak about it in the central diary, to finally be devoted to the Franak case, to finally talking about this topic of 125,000 families, and not to someone from some village who said an ugly word to someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130015	Thank you, Mr. Aleksic, and in the end it means the club of representatives of MOST, final Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130016	Thank you President, colleagues and colleagues HRT is the megaphone of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and it is clear to the entire government, it is clear to the people in Croatia. Instead of protecting and protecting freedom of speech, the public media is to serve everything in Croatia and positively and negatively they do not have domestic productions today except that they play Mexican and other soap operas or anything else while our actors on other TVs of our series, our productions on other TVs have the most visible terms in private, while domestic music is played in very little. very little is used, but the biggest problem here for me is that we lost our sports program where commercial television has taken over very important content. The second that we do not have an information program is not seen, is it simply there will be agreed by colleagues from HDZ if any of them come out of the opposition right behind this reporting live means spokeswoman Vlada or Andrej Plenkovic or Mr Bačić or someone from HDZ, they are, or Sunčana Glavak. Therefore, here is the key problem of what is the blow to freedom of speech. HTV acts like she's a journalist's prosecutor, and journalists want to get scared in the bones, that's the only thing that's done on HTV. On the contrary, everything critical of what Andrej Plenkovic thinks is simply pressure, criminal charges go, they go what I don't know everything. And there's no media freedom, there's no media freedom on HTV. HTV regional representation of problems from the south, from Prevlaka to Savudrija, to Slavonia, very few of these shows, is simply a programme, carried out by Andrej Plenkovic. So is it sad to turn off Vita's show, green pine or one of Croatia's more visible live shows. Of course they shut it down if it was seen, was it partially and critical of the government and of the opposition, but the show was shut down. I believe that HRT at this point does not meet those obligations that should be fulfilled, what it should be, it is the megaphone of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, she is a pirate of Andrej Plenkovic, she distorts the image in public, she acts as if she is a public service in North Korea and thus we cannot talk about public service. We're talking about one mastodon, one monopolies who's trying to be a monopoliest, and he's basically lost everything. He lost to commercial television the ratings of the program, all of the informative, sporting, they lost everything and today we have the HTV we have. We have a shut down of freedom of speech, and we Assembly MPs would be the ones who will defend freedom of speech, are we the Shaks's rules of procedure reached the right of freedom of speech, this Shaks's Rules of Procedure is also valid on HRT, all the insubordinations will be prosecuted, they will be persecuted, who do not think as the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, and therefore we at MOST are sending a message that HTV is not a protector of public interest, it is not a public service but they protect the government of Croatia, they are the megaphone of the Government of Croatia, and all those who have critical thoughts, and all of this knows the best Mrs Sunčana Glavak we see that she has applied, she knows very well that democracy and democratic thoughts and words on HTV do not have except for the obedience policy of Andrej Plenkovic. [[Time, Mr. Bull.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130017	The time and now final on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be spoken by Mrs. Suncana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, at the end of this debate today, I would like to say that everything has been discussed a little bit, and at least that is the proposal of the candidate or person for a member of the Supervisory Board who may be for you colleagues who may not have looked at what it is, so the agreement is inter-party and that is the candidate of the opposition. So it's very interesting that you didn't have to refer to it at all. However, there is one more thing I want to say when we talk about public service, and this is not the way to talk about it, and I remember well back in 15 years what happened on that same public service. And we can take out all our debates and see what chronology was and that this law that today passed the SDP was a proposal from the Social Democratic Party and that it was the first time that it was not harmonised and that no consensus was reached by all parties here on a law that is so important to public service. I'm surprised at the level of ignorance of legal regulations, and we all have something to say about it. It is not good for us to send a message to the Croatian public that we do not know at all the criteria we are discussing. I really don't think that's good. Worried about the rights of journalists, absolutely, journalistic freedoms absolutely, talk about it, every day if necessary, but we need to know then the facts and not discuss it at the level of gossip. I don't think that's our role and that's not our job. Talk about everything but what we should discuss. Not to give HRT, my colleagues have been here longer than I have been in the Parliament, my colleague Stazic has been president of the Committee for years, he knows what controversy we've been leading. Lead the controversy, discuss, come up with a common solution to, wonder why there are no sports transfers and do not know at all how they are realized. Don't compliment perhaps HRT on the other side, those little stories that some colleagues are telling about that they can have space and they don't have on private television because they have every right to create their own program in the way they want to. Public service must respect the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and meet its criteria, be responsible for financing because it is financed from the fee, not calling on Croatian citizens not to comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So what message do we send them? So I really invite you all, we don't all look at how someone's represented. To say that the low ratings of HRT are low, and on the other hand, you all say that someone's doing their PR, so you're in college with yourself. And public service in every country has its own legality. We can question the way you finance, the way you work, but no one from any party can edit a public service programme, any emissions. To warn, to criticize, to argue that, but to interfere with editorial policy then we would all be breaking the law here and that is exactly what many of our colleagues have done today. So colleagues and colleagues when we talk about public service, we talk about what is not good, what we need to fix and what we can improve. At the very least, here in the Croatian Parliament, we choose the leadership of HRT, we choose the bodies of HRT, we need to know what the body is doing, which is providing us with financial reports, reports of our work, and then it is time to discuss all this. There have also been recent meetings of thematic sessions, there have been concerns, there have been shifts over the night of 50 journalists who "cut off their heads" of course figuratively express myself, there have been changes of law, by force, without agreement. And today we have what we have. We all need to make public service meet those contractual obligations together, which is our job, to criticise, to question, to see what financial reports are, to which money is spent, and whether something must or must not be done by law and done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130019	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Lenart's turn in front of the House of Representatives Club, final. Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Bull, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. There was no word, I'm sorry, Mr. Bully, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130020	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague hurt Article 138 because she told parliamentarians that they did not know what they were talking about. It was best for him to write us a Sunny, so you can write us what we're going to say as you write on HTV. Freedom of speech is not on HTV, nor is it a public service. HTV is writing lawsuits for words spoken to its journalists and thus trying to strike the fear of journalists on HTV to spend and to have you write to them what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130021	Mr. Bulj, freedom of speech is in the House within the framework of the given Rules of Procedure of one, of 30 seconds as it is and as you have seen you have had the opportunity to say what you think, there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure of course but the right of speech has. Now it's Mr. Lenart's turn, finally, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130022	I thank the Honorable Vice President, this was very interesting for Mrs. Glavak to come and give us a lecture, after she left the assembly and had an ex-post mind, so she came back and gave us MPs a lecture on what we might need to talk about or shouldn't talk about. Mrs. Glavak, if you're frustrated that Mr. Maras turned you down for coffee, here I'll have a cup of coffee with you, it's no problem not to be frustrated. I hope that what we're talking about here today about HRT and Mrs. Antonija Petrusic I don't think we should talk about her right now, I don't know what to say, her CV is a very clear, quality person, we'll just see through all this time that's ahead of her whether she'll justify and that trust she'll get. We talked more about the fact that HRT is a regime television, we didn't mention which regime it is that manages but mostly one that comes to power is trying and trying to manage HRT. HRT is very good at selecting the news and stories that go out, and that is what you are all aware of, some may be involved in this creation, but the Croatian people recognize it and therefore the ratings of HRT fall. I ask you if HRT will today announce news that in Croatia it has been sold from 500 kg to 8.5 tonnes of infected meat, I wonder if there will be such news in the main journal concerning only the Croatian people who consumed this kebab and ate the infected meat that came from the suspected sides. So lately, it has been repeated here that HDZ representatives are telling us that we shouldn't talk one way or another. Ma'am. Glavak, I have been elected here as a representative on the list, from the Croatian people, I have received even more votes from the President of the Croatian Parliament and at least twice as much as I think I represent people with whom I communicate on a daily basis, with my friends, acquaintances, people among whom I move and who notice deformities and irregularities in this society and also in what HRT places through its channels towards viewers, informs their conscience and their thinking in some way. So please, don't lecture us about it, especially when you come back later, experience, an ex-post mind, and as far as coffee is concerned, here's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130023	Thank you, Mr. Lenart. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Sunny Head, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, unfortunately I have no other option and eternal 238, maybe we should add a few more articles but unfortunately we don't have the possibility of a fellow Lenart, you went from sexist statements to kebabs and I have nothing else to say to you but that you can simply talk about the universe, about all the possible things in this life and because you call on the number of votes, that doesn't mean that what you're saying has anything to do with common sense. [[Intruder Radin: Eternal 238.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130025	Mr. Lenart also, according to Article 238, is it possible that he's in violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130026	My colleague Glavak, in my speech I didn't have any sexist statements, if you've found yourself here, you have a phobia of that, it's not my fault. But what I was saying, I think you should say here. Maybe I'm not always right, I'm letting myself be wrong, no one's sinless, but obviously you think you're sinless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130027	Okay, I just want to point out that today I could have given one 8 warnings because there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure but were debates or replicas to each other for which there were no business opportunities. I didn't give either one, and I would ask you to respect it and to realize that from the next point on, I will start to give because don't ask why you have two criteria, because at one point fill the bottle, right, and it doesn't fit in anymore, and then from now on, if there will be replicas, there will be warnings, or if there will be debate instead of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Mr. Maras has the closing word now in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130028	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, after this debate which was partly and vivid but dominated by what people burden in the Republic of Croatia and must agree with it all here. So we don't have the quality public service we're supposed to have. So we'll probably, at every point, be talking about either the programming board or the board of directors or the reports that I'm not talking about, have a debate all the time. So the debate will be whether people who pay 80 kn for something get an adequate favor. And the counterservice consists of a quality public service that affects us most through an information program but also affects us through a documentary programme, own production, external production, etc., etc. In Croatia to evaluate citizens' quality at the moment we get from HRT, it would probably be an assessment that would not satisfy and would not get a pass. And it doesn't need to be run away from, and it doesn't need to be gentlemen from the HDZ, hiding behind some parolees or behind the government, but it needs to take responsibility. So you need to take responsibility and you need to say that, you can do something there, you need to get your political paw off the HRT information program, you need to let people do their job, you need to allow both the presidents and the prime minister to be interviewed by journalists who will ask them freely any question that they don't get angry, you need to allow people to do investigative journalism, not to worry existentically about whether their home will sue them for 250,000 kn. Maybe it's some small money, maybe it's irrelevant to someone, maybe HDZ wants to basically keep people in check, maybe someone wants to send people a message like he did, so they don't keep doing it, to withdraw their statements, and then they'll drop the charges. Well, it's a classic type of pressure on journalists, on those who should be reporting to our fellow citizens, who should have on the cover today that information on one local television has come out that the defector at the Milan Bandic club has become a deputy, or Mrs. she became the deputy director of Velesajm, to be traded directly in this way, which is why this is not potential as a topic on HRT, but to open champagne and film fireworks when the commercial budget of the city of Zagreb is adopted. That's what people ask of HRT, not to hide and push under the carpet. It is a shame that we have in Croatia, it is a shame how the capital of the Republic of Croatia and the mayor of the Republic of Croatia function, and until this changes, we cannot talk about European values, we cannot talk about Croatia in full terms as a European state, because it is not. If journalists fear what they will report, if HRT sues 32 journalists for their statements or sentences they have said, on public, social networks, etc. then Croatia is not in the full sense of the word democratic state. The only question is why european Andrej Plenkovic supports it. I know the answer, HDZ people know the answer, but our citizens need to hear the answer, the answer is because it answers it, because it suits the government of the Republic of Croatia to write and report in superlatives about their so-called. The successes that no one else sees and we will end up in that story, the emperor is naked, everyone will say that everything is beautiful, and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people are leaving Croatia. If in Croatia it is really as late as HRT tells us, why do people leave Croatia? Why are they looking for perspective in other countries? What makes the Dalmatian Zagora empty, Slavonia, why don't people see the perspective here? And why is it that when journalists make such contributions, they get lawsuits from HRT? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130029	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now I take the opportunity to announce at the gallery the second group of the 16th Zagreb High School, we are pleased to have you with us and please welcome these valuable students with one big round of applause. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130030	The proposal for a decision appointing a member of the HRT Supervisory Board, is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the debate has been concluded, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the HRT Supervisory Board, but before that, my colleague Maras, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130031	Thank you very much, Mr. President, this isn't a breach of the rules of procedure, this is two minutes, and I've only signaled it with my hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130032	Then return two minutes, but please be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130033	Well, I'm sorry. Mr. President, before this vote, I am asking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult again on the vote, but also on the situation on HRT, which has become a branch of the HDZ and a group run by that branch, edits the programme in the manner in which it corresponds to the Plenkovic, HDZ and does not respect the importance of HRT and does not respect the fact that Croatian citizens should be informed objectively and that this is essentially a public service that we all pay 80 kn in Croatia. This kind of service, this kind of HRT doesn't deserve to exist at all. 80 kn that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are paying for politicians on HRT have been thrown away and perhaps you should consider abolishing the obligation to pay 80 kn because there is no need for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to give their money every month to finance HDZ television and politicians appointed there by HDZ. On the other hand, they, suing their journalists, are holding disputes against their journalists because they warn of problems at HRT, unfortunately, it is today such a situation. There's never been a worse situation on HRT since the '90s. It's a year away from here. And for this reason we invite everyone tomorrow to join the protest of the Croatian Naval Society at 12.05 hours in front of the Press House in the City of Zagreb, to say, not this kind of administration and not this kind of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130034	Call me back, but is there anyone else? Comrade Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130035	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to remind my colleagues that HRT acts in accordance with the law adopted by the Social Democratic Party in a completely non-democratic way, in order to remind that the Social Democratic Party either shortened SDP or a concrete colleague, Gordan Maras, expelled public service journalists from the press conference and thus introduced censorship and precedent and undemocratic behaviour in Croatian society and unseen for democratic Croatia. Equally so that we can remember, and we won't be able to do it in a short time if the character and the work of colleague Gordan Maras is the most on the HRT screen which can be checked on any show. So, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely, let's think about what my colleague Maras is saying, and I will remind you once again, that thanks to this law passed by the SDP, under which HRT currently operates, almost 70 editors on HRT were executed overnight. As far as the law is concerned, I'm calling all of you one more time, so let's not make the editorial policy on HTV. We can have objections, we can question business, so here we are, and we still vote, or we're making a decision about who's going to be at the head of HRT, who's going to be sitting in HRT bodies, and as you know last week, you even rebelled against your own proposal, who should be sitting on the board of directors. So I don't understand what's going on on the right side of the assembly, but I appeal to common sense. Everyone in this country has the right to protest, and so does counterpart Maras, even against themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130036	Thank you. A colleague, Maras, was looking for a breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130037	Thank you very much, ma'am. The head injury to the Rules of Procedure in part of the discussion, because she mentioned exactly 12 times, colleague Maras, so there is no vote on Maras here Mrs. The head is not even talking about Maras, there is talk about HRT where your friend Kovačić also very much remained remembered for the editors' shifts etc. So your... On that television, and I beg you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't embarrass yourself as a journalist who worked there.../The speaker turned off./... [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Maras thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130038	Comrade Maras, I've already ruled you out, you're not correct, you've been injured by the Rules of Procedure, you've abused that injury and received a warning, but at least stick to the time. A fellow Pupovac, also called for a break, I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130039	On behalf of the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I ask you not to give me 10 minutes, that, if you wish, let me explain it. Those who seek and feel that they should reflect on this report have had many opportunities to think about it and to think about how they have contributed to the fact that television is located and the radio is in the state of it. This club, which I am a member of, and as part of it we have talked about in this HS many times including the last speech in which my colleague Milosevic and I have warned that it is necessary that this HS deal seriously. What colleagues and colleagues are looking for is not a serious approach to the problem, so on behalf of the club, we ask you not to give 10 minutes, but to finish the job, and let them think about what they did and what they should do about television.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130040	No matter what you're asking me not to take a break, according to the Rules of Procedure, I'll approve the recess because that's the rule that stands in the Rules of Procedure, so we'll continue at 11.55, please let us be there. It's 11:45 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:55 A.M.]] We're going to vote now. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Croatian Supervisory Board, please vote. I find that, by a majority of votes, 92 votes and 3 votes against, a decision has been taken to appoint a member of the HRT Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130042	We are going forward with the following item of the agenda: - Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2017 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, was adopted at the 14th session held on 24 October 2014. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Mr Velimir Zunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130043	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 14th session held on 24 October 2014. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit regular six-month reports on the use of the EU's pre-accession assistance programme as well as European structural instruments. The report gives an overview of the financial indicators of utilisation and the descriptive subject matter of the state of implementation of the use of European Structural Funds, for the financial period 2014-2020 through the presentation of all operational programmes, including the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, operational programme of effective human potential, rural development programme and operational programme for maritime and fisheries. The half-yearly report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes and European structural instruments shall include key information on the implementation of IPA 1, 2, 5 components of the IPA programme, as well as operational transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and human potential development, and operational programme for fisheries, financial period 2007-2013, including financial indicators of performance, absorption, individual components, or operational programme. When we talk about the financial period 2014-2020, we know that the total value of the resources allocated to the Republic of Croatia for all operational programmes of the financial period '14-20. is 10 billion 10.74 billion euros. During the reporting period in question, from 1 January 2017 to 30 June 2017, projects worth 1,12 billion euros were agreed, of the total appropriations contracted on 30 June 2017, which amounted to... billions, which actually means that in the first half of 2017, we contracted almost half of all the funds contracted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A total of 312.85m euros were paid to end-users and contractors, out of the total amount paid of 655.61m euros, therefore almost half of all paid funds to end-users and contractors, were also certified in that first half of 2017. The European Commission also recognised 96.06m euros from the total amount of EUR 303.45m since the start of the implementation, which is around about a third of the funds assured in the first half of 2017. The European Commission amounted to 90.08m euros, of the total amount allocated to 774,15m euros, amounting to 11.6% compared to the total period. In view of the dynamics of the publication of public calls and tenders, the situation was therefore completed at the end of the reporting period, at the end of 2017, the following was, therefore, the following, as regards the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, up to half of 2017 85 grants procedures totalling EUR 3,63 billion. So, during the first half of 2017, 44 grants procedures totalling 1.50 billion euros were carried out, which means that we published more procedures in the first half of the year than in the entire period until then. In the operational programme, effective human potential, 44 free allocation procedures totalling 413.7 billion euros were carried out. Therefore, in the reporting period itself in the first half of 2017. 17 procedures were carried out to allocate a total value of EUR 125,29 million. As regards the rural development programme, up to the end of June 2017, a total of 41 tenders, total of EUR 764.6 million were announced, and 13 tenders of a total value of EUR 218.95 million were published in the reporting period in the first half of 2017. Finally, in the operational programme for maritime and fisheries in the first half of 2017. 6 invitations to tender of a total of 23 invitations to tender have been published, therefore, until the end of the reporting period, therefore, a total of EUR 47.58 million of EUR 204,27 million has been opened at that time as much as has been published in the Maritime and Fisheries Programme. When we talk about the period 2007, 2013, the total value of the appropriations for operational programmes and programmes prior to the 2007 access support period was EUR 1.28 billion, and in the reporting period in the first half of 2017, therefore there were no new contracts, there was an termination of the EUR 280.31 million project contract, which therefore reduced the total contract value, so that it was also a billion and EUR 381 million. A total of EUR 53,49 million has been paid to end-users and contractors of the total amount paid at the beginning of the implementation, since the start of the implementation, so a billion and 118 million. The European Commission has been asked to grant EUR 18.34 million of the total amount requested from the start of the implementation to that end of the reporting period of EUR 120 million. Therefore, and finally, the European Commission has amounted to EUR 3.92 million from a total to a certain amount of EUR 1 billion and EUR 80 million, so from the start of the programme to the end of the reporting period. Therefore, the acceptance of the costs for that period ended with 31.12.2016. and, therefore, the total use of the funds of these programmes, we speak for the period 2007, 2013 will be known during their final closure, therefore, which has not yet been completed. When we talk about irregularities in the reporting period, therefore, 20 new irregularities were recorded in the IMS system, 3 were, 3 were, in the context of component 5 of the IPA programme, one was in the framework of an operational programme regional competitiveness, one was in the case of an operational programme of human potential development, one was in the context of an operational programme of efficiency of human potential, and 13 were in the context of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and one for, within the framework of the European Fisheries Fund. Therefore, during the reporting period in question from 1 January 2017 to 30 June 2017. There has been significant growth and contracts and payments to users and contractors, as well as the certification of funds from the European Structural and... Funds, which is directly linked to a large increase in the number of public calls and competitions published, and these positive trends continue with the following reporting periods, and we will soon report here in HS. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for this opening argument, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130044	Thank you, too. Oh, you have several replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I have a simple question for you. I hope you know that there is one serious problem in the Republic of Croatia, and that is the problem of buildings, multi-story buildings, without elevators. Unfortunately, they cannot be co-financed by EU funds, I assume you know the same thing. We have asked you several times to amend the relevant programmes to enable co-financing and these projects, i.e. the installation of lifts into multi-storys, for example, my colleague Ranko Ostojić, has repeatedly talked about this and the entire project at European Parliament level has been launched by representative Biljana Borzana, and I have also written and spoken to you at press conferences. However, the ministry has deafened and how much I know or how many opportunities we have to read in the media, the project will be nothing for now. My question to you is why the Ministry does not introduce this project and does not allow people living in multi-state buildings [[Intruder: Thank you]] Through the elevator, multi-state buildings without elevators to install them. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130047	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, according to the programme, therefore, priority exceptions and operational programmes at the moment, that is not possible. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia and the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds will therefore have serious discussions with the European Commission regarding changes to the operational programme, so major changes to the operational programme where one of the objectives will be, therefore, and to allow the reporting of such projects. So it is certainly important projects and projects, therefore, which will enable people, therefore, to have a better quality of life in their, therefore, buildings or their apartments and only after the amendment of the operational programme by the European Commission will it be possible, and as I have already said, therefore, we are planning to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130048	Thank you. Mr. Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, same two simple questions for you. First of all, tell the Croatian public how much at this time your assessment will be called off, so it will be returned to the EU budget from 2014 and 2015. Since period N+3, I do not know why this information is hidden from the Croatian public or why that amount is perhaps EUR 0? Here, please answer that question. And the second question, you have now said in your debate a very strange finding that the appropriations from the period 2007, 2013 were adjusted, therefore, reduced by EUR 238 million of the contracted funds. I know what it is, that's what we agreed, and you transferred to 2014, the 20th, but here, I beg you. if it is not so to explain to the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130050	Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130051	Here, thank you, well-respected representative, therefore, for recalling the funds or N+3 rules at the end of 2018. The Republic of Croatia has fulfilled all, therefore, the necessary, therefore, limits or there will be no recall from the N+3 objectives, so we have made that clear. As for the termination of the contract, therefore there was a termination of the contract, as you know there are certain problems in the implementation of certain projects, so the type of property law, problems in supply, etc., now not to list, but Croatia will say it so was wise so it went over booking, so we are still above those assets that we have actually allocated to us. Therefore, there will be no loss so far because we are still in the amount of the bargaining above the means of those funds that... Assigned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These projects will be realised or realised in the period '14/'20. Therefore, these funds, or projects, will not give up, and they will either be realised or already realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130052	Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130053	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm interested in a simple question, I've seen comparisons of countries like Romania, Bulgaria, which are also in a difficult economic situation, but with them, the ratio of paid and withdrawn funds is approximately 1:5. Croatia is 1:2 and when we consider all together, Croatia still does not have that exact benefit and more I would say our citizens, Croatia itself, and those who are working on these projects on the outside earn more than Croatia does and does not benefit from the EU. I want to know why this is so and I want to know why in your opinion the City of Zagreb stands among the weakest in Croatian counties after withdrawing funds and per capita and what is done because we are all aware that both cableways and roads, bridges could work from European funds and not work. What makes you think Zagreb is not doing its job as a city to withdraw funds from the EU? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130054	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130055	I therefore would not agree that Croatia has no use for European funds, when you pass through the Republic of Croatia, through numerous cities, municipalities, counties, so many construction sites are just funded, i.e. co-financed by European funds and Croatia is therefore the youngest member of the EU, so these effects obviously come at the latest from all Member States. Let's remind Romania and Bulgaria entered in 2007. As for the questions concerning the City of Zagreb, I can hardly give you that answer, so this is a question for the Mayor of the City of Zagreb except that, of course, the City of Zagreb is also the largest city and has many projects, so I believe that you are right when you say that some of these major projects could be financed by European means, but this is a question for therefore responsible people in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130056	Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130057	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. So here's the EU funds, we'll all agree that they're actually one of the main opportunities for development. Have we used that enough? Well, I don't think so, because if we did, we wouldn't only have 16% of the funds paid in this location in 2014/20. And by that, it is actually one achievement that we are in the EU's last place. The fact is that a lot of competitions are currently being called, that local units have prepared themselves quite well, prepared more project documentation than are currently scheduled. So I am now interested in one particular question whether you plan at least for those who have been preparing for these, for the EU funds, which are primarily units of local self-government to provide an even greater allocation. Here's an example of social infrastructure primarily for firehouses in the continental Croatia area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130058	The answer of the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130059	So I will repeat, honourable parliamentary representative, so Croatia is not very well positioned at the moment, but these things are being fixed, they are definitely being repaired, and so when we look at individual funds, so we have a situation that we are in some, in the use of certain funds and in the middle, so we are not as bad as they are spoken in public. In addition, there is a huge growth in the matter of bargaining. You know very well that today's figures are much better than they were at this point and during this period that we are talking about today. When we talk about units of local self-government about our municipalities and cities, of course more competitions are being planned, but we must be aware that 63% of the total allocation of 10.7 billion euros is already agreed and that already in this financial perspective there is not much room left, except perhaps for some individual competitions that will certainly not be extremely large. Next financial... It will bring new opportunities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130060	Thank you. Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Here's how many colleagues Grbin and Greek colleagues have had simple questions of mine are even simpler. You can answer it briefly with yes or no. So do you think it makes sense today, in February 2019, to discuss in this House a report relating to the first half of 2017, when your ministry has completed the data at the end of November 15, 2018, so whether or not it makes sense to spend the energy of this House or to put into debate something that is much more relevant and that is currently spending the funds or privileged funds of the EU funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130062	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130063	Dear Parliamentarian, of course it makes sense, so we're only talking about this report now because we're catching backlogs that we've somehow missed making in the past, so now this is the topic of today's, so this plenary session. Very soon you will have on tables or materials for the second half of 2017 and in the first half of 2019 you will also discuss the whole year 2018, so we will catch up with the backlogs and therefore we will have an updated state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130064	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130065	Thank you very much. Secretary, you're talking about 10 billion euros in funds that Croatia had at its disposal. Tell us how much we have agreed, how much we have withdrawn and how much we have paid, give us a parallel. How much did Croatia pay in any account or membership fee or anything and how much money we withdrew. That's very important. The other thing is when we're talking about agriculture that's... The EU funds were 64 thousand, economies, OPGs dealing with dairy production are now empty farms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's the money? Why isn't he retired? Speaking of traffic, here I'll talk about the Dalmatian Zagora, the Drnish compound, Knin, Sinj, Immotski, the tunnel in Vrgorec, where are those roads? What about the Cetin Province compound, where's that money on the highway? Where's that money? You just, just the government, organize to manipulate people. on these projects. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130066	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130067	Your Honor, I thank you very much for asking. So, it is certain that, like the Republic of Croatia, as a Member State in the thick plus, which, therefore, when we talk only about membership in 2013-2018, means somewhere around a little less than a billion euros, means, 10 and a half, 11 billion kuna, we have therefore withdrawn more money than we have paid for our membership fees in the EU, and you projects that you are talking about are well under way because of the increase in the bargaining process, followed by the implementation of projects, all these roads and all these therefore, investments in agricultural economies and all other segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130068	Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130069	Thank you, Vice-President, Secretary of State, the component of this report is a detailed review of the implementation of the operational programmes... In 2013, HDZ was in power at the time, and when we look at the operational transport programme, we were allocated 236 million euros, and we were not a Member State then and we were not paying anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's enough... However, these 236m euros and national co-financed 41m euros, only 82% of the funds were agreed and 66% of the allocations were paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Overall, it is planned to pay 170m euros, and we see that we had 236m euros at our approval. So we couldn't even pull what the EU gave us for free, to join the EU. Who's to blame? Who's been in power since 2007-2011? And tell me why we lost half a billion kuna in that period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130070	Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130071	Dear Parliamentarian. So, when we talk about the financial period 2007-2013, then we can talk about the government headed by HDZ, the government headed by the SDP, the government headed by the HDZ together with the MOST and therefore the current government which, therefore, again has the HDZ as the main party, therefore the responsibility is broad, I would not talk about the amount of duration, but definitely, I said that certain contracts broke up for a reason, because of the problems in the projects, because of the phase of the projects, because of the transfer of funding to the next financial period, and what is crucial, means that Croatia has made overbooking, more projects has been contracted than it has allocated, therefore, these funds are not lost in the end, perhaps one part will be lost, at the end when we get the closure of these programmes, or projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130072	Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130073	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. From your opening statement, we heard, I will express myself dryly, what the report says, however, what I would ask is your concrete assessment of implemented projects through EU funds. So, in conclusion, I expected to see what that grade is, what are the reasons for the failure, and where we can be much more successful. You can't brag or comfort yourself with the means that we got more than we paid. I'm interested in the minus that we've achieved. what we were able to realize, and we didn't realize, and we all put together the strength to be more successful. Because the fact of these percentages that are in the very conclusion, those 50, and I'm going to say 25% of the funds paid that we can't really be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130074	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130075	Dear Parliamentarian. So I'd say it like this. So, as the youngest member state in the EU, we missed the opportunity to prepare quality for the use of EU funds, and this opportunity is therefore irrevocably lost in those years, the first years of membership. 01.01.2017. we were at 9% of the contract, behind us were 2014, 2015 and 2016. 01.01.2018. we were at 35% agreement, and 01.01.2019. 62% of the contract total... 10.7 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we are doing everything to try to reduce this backlog, or to reach 85% of the contract by the end of this year, and in 2020, which is the final year for the negotiations, we welcome some 105%, let's say, up to 108% because we're going to go overbooking, so that we don't lose funds if some projects stop us from realising implementation. So, you have to be better prepared, that was a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130076	We continue to discuss the report, the use of European Structural and Investment Funds etc. So that's it, now we're on the committee's reporter. Do some committee rapporteurs who have discussed this report want to take their word? No, I don't. And I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr Ante Pranic of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130077	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the meaning of the report on the use of European funds from 1.1.2017 to 30.6.2017 and today it is 21.2.2019. So we are still waiting for a report for the period from 30.6 to 31.12.2017 from 1.1 to 30.6.2018, 30.6 to 31.12.2018. Since reports are coming to the Assembly, it is no wonder how slowly we withdraw funds. And the question arises when we will talk about reports and the period and the rest of 2017 and 2018. Who's actually going to talk about those reports? If they continue to do so, the representatives of another government will not answer those people who are now responsible for this alone. How slow we are, so the reports themselves say that they are slowly coming to the Croatian Parliament, without, in front of parliamentary representatives. However, I would particularly like to refer to point 6 of the report on strengthening the system and increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of the European Structural Investment Funds. In the context of the European Semester, on 22 February 2017, the European Commission adopted a working document on the Commission's service entitled ‘A Report for Croatia 2017’ with detailed examinations on prevention, correction of macroeconomic imbalances, which also highlights the issue of administrative capacity in the context of governance and control of the use of European Structural Investment Funds, stating that the absorption of EU funds remains difficult due to limited administrative capacity and strategic planning. And that is what is actually happening today in the Republic of Croatia, the result of a policy of engulfing 20 and change years, where in public services there are a wave of people who obviously, I will not say are incompetent, but are less capable of safe than those capable people who are now outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia and this is normally visible from the European report for the Republic of Croatia in 2017. Due to inefficient public administration, a clear strategy and without strategic documents, we are badly absorbing grants. As for the public development and efficiency building itself, 880 million kunas of grants have been provided to you, and when the public administration's action plan in this HS has been adopted, where the European Commission has chosen to approve them with 880 million kunas of grants. As much as we want to make this public administration effective, it tells us that out of 880 million kunas were withdrawn 0.45%, so the order of the size of the statistical error and without effective and rapid public administration, without strengthening administrative capacity, normally we have this extremely poor withdrawal of grants. According to the global competitiveness index of the global economic forum, the Republic of Croatia is positioned at the bottom of the world by an efficient public administration, we are more successful than Venezuela, don't talk to me about the negotiation of European funds and allocations, let's talk about the verification data. How many PSCs are being verified, how many contracts you've secured are confirming, who should verify these contracts, who should control these processes? These processes should be confirmed and dealt with by those competent people in the state public administration. However, how capable they are at the ministry level of saying defeating data when we look at financial indicators. We see that 676 additional employees in the Central Authorities of the State Administration and legal persons with public authority involved in the System of Management and Control of Use of SF Funds need to be employed from this part. I'm now asking why there has been no requalification of certain civil servants within individual ministries? What is waiting for this requalification since we've known what problems we're going to be in since 2007, and now these problems are coming to a charge, coming to the collection of employment policies for the like, not the capable. I don't mind having 676 people hired, however, you hired me 1,500 people on these projects alone, but then why didn't you fire 1500 in other services if they couldn't requalify themselves if they couldn't deal with their knowledge with EU funds. As far as the strategy is concerned, the European Commission also resents the fact that we do not have a draft strategy for the development period 2020, 2027, so much for our strategic planning and now the question is how and when to adopt low-level strategies, regional levels, local levels, if we have not now adopted a roof strategy, Malta should not have adopted it now that we have the next programming period ready in 2020, 2027. We have, we don't have a state strategy, but what do we have? We have an uncoordinated analysis of the situation, uncoordinated projects, uncoordinated spatial plans, uncoordinated property legal relations, non-coordinated environmental impact studies, uncoordinated building permits, so it's not really weird why we don't have a clear vision of using grants, individual roads are designed three to four times, they don't know when which fund, competitions will be called, which criteria, criteria change from month to month, and then we talk about European funds. In fact, this is the first clear examination of the public administration of the Republic of Croatia and all those officials and officials in public places, and we see that the RH exam is dropping. Perhaps today, when we look at this situation, we can't achieve anything by crying for past programming periods, these funds have been at the resolution ministries and these resolution ministries, the Ministry of Regional Development has not been led by the Most, it's led by both the HDZ and the SDP, and since we haven't adopted a development strategy for the future period, nor do I see in the individual programmes of the ministries to go into strategic designs, we already seem to be able to cry for the future period. Generally, as for the use of grants during the period considered, all processes are slow, perhaps we are no longer snails regarding the treaty, but we are certainly turtles. The State Audit Office has concluded that implementation of the Operational Programme on Competitiveness and Cohesion is partially effective, and significant improvements are needed, based on this report by the end of 2017, 7.8% of the funds were agreed below the plan, the plan you defined, and 39.8% less than planned. If we look at the financial indicators of the status of implementation of the 2014 operational programmes, from the beginning of 2020, then 2014 By the end of the reporting period on 30 June 2017, we see that we have agreed only 22% of the funds. So, we spoke 22% of the mid-term funds allocated, out of the EUR 10.7 billion allocated, only 6.1%, confirmed 2.82%. Now, that's what happens in the Republic of Croatia, it doesn't work, it doesn't work because no one can tell me that we can brag about the fact that 2,82% of the funds are confirmed. So, all of us leaders of the local self-government units know, I think, individual parliamentary representatives, how grants are allocated, from the negotiation process to the pre-financing process, and that only business actually starts during the certification process and that you stand with the certification process on 30 June 2017, 2.82%. So what do the many civil servants who are employed, who are employed by these 676 or 1500, how do we have more recent indicators, and you're going to come here with that data, what are they doing? We have a total of 8.1 billion euros in the Cohesion Competitiveness Framework Programme until 30 June 2017, a total of 85 procedures totalling 3.63 billion euros were published. And the basis of the procedures launched was allocated grants until 30 June 1.55 billion euros. A total of 304m euros, and a total of only 60.73m euros. And that's what we can talk about today about grants, so we can just talk about the certified funds. Which are, let's say finished. All this other stuff she said- she said and it's gonna be what it's gonna be. In the framework of the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, I will take a special look at this programme because you are building on the even development of Croatia right on the rural development programme. I remember here when we had a set of laws on an assisted and mountainous mountainous area, so you said we don't need national funds, that we would define Croatia's regional equality by means of grants. You have 2,03 billion euros at your disposal, a total of 310m euros, 223m euros were confirmed. But if we look at this table, so when we see a devastating fact, let's say, Split-Dalmatia County, because my predecessor in taking a stand was talking about evicting the Dalmatian Zagora, so of course he'll be evicting when these projects from the Dalmatian mountain are gone. And why isn't there? Because the mayor of Split-Dalmatia County schedules you 50 million kuna for small capital investments, with the moss of HDZ mayors and mayors, and why would they develop grants? Well, there's no national funding, no national projects, so normally people move out. However, once again I will look back at the presentation, on the operational programme for the financial period 2007-2013, which I said in an individual replica of your presentation, that period was completed, that period lasted until 31 December 2016. Gentlemen, from 2007 to 31 December 2016. So that changed the government and government and resolution ministries and now let's look at this programming period. Let's look at the operational program just traffic. We were allocated 236 million euros, given in.../incomprehensible/..., that is when the EU gave us 236 million to make the euro available in.../incomprehensible/..., then we did not pay June or the euro, and this should have been a sign of our readiness in terms of projects. However, since the start of the programme, a total of 196m euros, i.e. 82% of the allocations, and 157m euros, were agreed on in 2007 to 30 June 2017, as seen in this one period. Who's to blame? We lost half a billion kuna here. So how many projects have we reported? Where did the mistakes come from? Who's responsible? I don't get an answer to that question. It's just gonna be, it's gonna be, it's gonna be. So you understand once that you need to cut into one programming period and say we're guilty. And to define the culprits, who then held the rest of the departments? Who applied certain projects? And why are there mistakes? There are mistakes because there is no strategic planning. Some of the projects that I personally have heard in this assembly this year, are being designed, here, now is the fourth time. So much for the readiness of individual projects. So let's project them by 2020, so someone categorically claims that this project will be reported from 2020-2027, but it won't either. Only people on the ground lie, cheat, and projects aren't ready. We were not prepared from 2007 to 31 December 2016 to use a 100 % grant in a EUR 236 million form. And those projects were reported by someone in Brussels. He came from Brussels and told the Croats which projects he would report. We've defined these projects ourselves. We've been doing these projects on our own. But the EU cannot lie to the Commission. So all mistakes are paid dearly, and remember what mistakes will occur in Croatia. Mostly in the rural area. Who will pay for all these maintenance, all these agglomerations where money is poured, we now see as I said, grants are granted for the construction of kindergartens, and the same municipality that receives funds for kindergartens and builds kindergartens is not in the budget for employed aunts in kindergartens. And we say that by means of grants, we will keep the population. So it moves the population 10 times faster than you're withdrawing funds. And no one sums up the maintenance of that infrastructure, or those indicators that we have applied as some positive indicators, which will arise when these infrastructure projects are developed. Those indicators won't be there. So later on, by checking in, there's going to be a refund on those grants, who's going to answer for it? No one is responsible for anything in this Croatia. In the entire public administration, we had an example last year of a one-off. One of them just quits, so our public administration is doing great. It works great, we see how it works, with 2-3% of the total certified funds. I've been waiting for one kindergarten since 15.9. Last SNS. It's from the credentials. And it's a Croatian reality. This is the Croatian use of European grants. And with these resources, we want to keep the population in our area. Well, somebody come to the rural area of Croatia, so when they see how much they move the population daily, and some project takes five years to realize, and we're saying that there are no national funds. And only in the transport sector did we lose half a billion kuna. The sector since 2007-2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130078	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130079	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, here is the report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and EU pre-accession programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2017, which will support HDZ. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit 6 months of reports on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes and European Structural and Investment Funds to HS on the basis of the conclusions of 24 October 2014. For the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016, 5 reports were prepared which we discussed here in the single package in this particular mandate and accepted it in July 2017, while a report for the long half of 2016 was discussed and accepted in March last year. Today we are considering a report on the first half of 2017, although we already have fresh data from January of this year, which is available on the Ministry's and the European Commission's pages, and it would agree with colleagues who think it would be much more appropriate to talk today about what and how much happened in 2018 than when we only talked about the first half of 2017. I would also note that this government was formed in October 2016 and that this six-month period was the first period of this government in which it was able to call a tender, negotiate or do something better in terms of withdrawing funds from the European funds or funding of the same. Although absolute figures are not impressive, what is significant are indicators of growth of both contracts and payments. For example, the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion has made progress in the bargaining compared to the previous 132% period while the payment has reached an increase of 152%. Total bargaining at the level of European structural and investment funds is recorded in that period of 88% growth while payment is recorded by a growth of 91%. From 1 January 2017 to 30 June, the European funds from those at our disposal from 2007 to 2013, the reduced value of the contracted funds due to the termination of contracts and phases, which are mainly large projects related to the construction of the railway infrastructure, then the development of Dubrovnik Airport, there are even smaller projects that had to be staged, refers to construction for the streets of the town of Vodice, the construction of the bridge of the island of Ciovo land in the city of Trogir, we know that we have very big problems in public procurement, especially such larger and more significant projects, when it comes to complaints that must then go to the State Commission for the control of public procurement and similar procedures. However, by 30 June 2017, 108% were agreed and 1.12 billion euros were paid at the same time to users, and 87.64% at the same time. In the same period, 22.17% of the financial perspective programme, which is still in place, was agreed on by 1.1 billion euros, so that by that day 22.17%, which was significantly more than 6 months. Before when we had only 11.83%. The maximum amount agreed during the reporting period is within the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion and amounts to 880m euros while the percentage of total paid projects of the best allocated under the rural development programme is 15.33%. The report also mentions irregularities and activities that need to improve the functioning of the system, so during that period the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an amendment to the Regulation on the institutional framework of the system for the prevention of irregularities and fraud. Guidelines have been developed in the management of irregularities, an analysis has been carried out for education, etc. Unfortunately, the fact that in the period from the second quarter of 2008 to 30 June 2017, a total of 730 cases of irregularities have been identified, of which 539 have been closed, then we know that the Republic of Croatia and our human potential have not been sufficiently trained, and it is certain that there are in particular smaller environments, or when it comes to project holders who have weaker human potentials sufficient education, however, it is all good if there is no problem that a particular project should even be returned to those grants. Although the government has yet to work in this period, by the end of 2017 there is an increase of 277% of the agreed funds at European Structural and Investment Funds for the financial period 2014-2020 and 225% of the funds paid. We are pleased to read yesterday's article that says that we are in the condition of agreed projects, unlike the percentage of payment, that Croatia is approaching the European average. According to the latest data, we published tenders worth 79% of the total allocation for the period 2014 to 2020, compared to the four-year period from 2014 to 2017, much more when this amount was all in the level of 52%. Therefore, we can conclude that the biggest shift occurred in the publication of the competition and the degree of contract of the project. And on the European Commission's website, the data on the percentage of funds paid are regularly updated, and apart from being able to monitor the situation on a daily basis, we can also see a direct comparison of our performance with other Member States. A little less than 14 months. Croatia was paid 820 million which is 78% more than 14 months. before. Croatian European Fund expert Ariana Vela also believes that the rate of funds paid is low and in the first order because it was not planned in time was delayed with the negotiation and implementation of major projects. Therefore, when we talk about the report for this very period, this government and this ministry cannot be held accountable. This government is making great efforts and by the end of last year all programmes have achieved n goals, n plus goals, so plus 3 years. As of 31 December 2016, this ended the N+3 period of implementation of the IPA programme and the Operational Programme of the financial period 2007 and 2013. During 2017, the phased closure of the programme with the deadline of March 2018 followed and the only exception was IPA 1 which was implemented until 14 January 2020. In the term of the government, the Republic of Croatia has registered a significant growth in the contract-funded projects, up from €935 million from the end of October 2016 to €6.75 billion, which is an increase of 585%. However, in addition to withdrawing the resources available and this financial perspective, it is necessary to actively work on preparations for the next programming period, and here I agree with all my predecessors that we must also make significant efforts in withdrawing funds, as well as in applying and preparing for the next financial perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130080	Thank you, too, and now it's Mr Branimir Bunjac's turn in front of the Representatives' Club Live Wall and SNAGE.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130081	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in submitting such reports as this on the use of the European Funds, we see in fact what the real state of Croatia's EU membership is where everything that has been promised to us so-called. the pre-accession negotiations have largely not been met in practice. When we entered the EU, among other things, we were promised that we would have higher salaries, and today unfortunately we do not have higher salaries, wages are rising in EU countries faster than they are rising in Croatia. Last year's minimum wage in EU member states grew and by more than 10%, now we have already been overcome by Lithuania and Lithuania, we have a gross salary of EUR 505, and the disastrous Greece can have EUR 758, and these countries have a leading of 1,500 and even more than EUR 2,000 minimum. Why did Croatia not at least get close to those countries in proportion, so we still have salaries less than 3 to 4 times in the EU. On the other hand we talked fine you will have higher salaries and you will have lower prices, approach the big market of this will come down prices etc. However, we can see that this is not the case, here is the analysis of a shopping centre in the Republic of Croatia that operates across the EU, and the same product costs half as much in Austria as in Croatia. So the stories of lower prices are simply not the same, the lower discounts are on us than in the EU, and what is even worse than anything is the quality of the goods. Should this story be mentioned at all about meat imports, whether it should be mentioned the story of meat imported, milk, fruit, vegetables that are not other, third categories but fifth categories, sixth categories and, in fact, Croatia is becoming a EU dump. It is important to note here, pointed out that import word, because we were told that exports would increase, but exports did not increase, imports increased, and we are importing very much today that Croatia can produce, let's say we import even leaves, import moss, import 40% of fruit and vegetables, we have so many fertile countries that are unprocessed. Jobs were said to be opening, where they were jobs. Do you know how many jobs have been lost in the past month in the Republic of Croatia? In a month, we lost 20,000 jobs, from December to January. Before we joined the EU, we had 1,380,000 employees, you know how many we have today, as much as we do today. With all the growth, with all the investment, along with all these funds, we don't have any employees more than we did when we joined the EU. At the same time, we have less active population by 200,000, so we have lost active population, and we have not increased the number of employees. What are the director's prices in Croatia, here is the increase in waste disposal, will collect 1.4 gas, if you want to know what the prices are compared to other EU members. In Zagreb, the apartment of 85m2 directed amounts to EUR 170, in Vienna EUR 160, in Amsterdam, EUR 150, in Milan, Italy, EUR 120. Do you know how much their salaries are higher? I've already listed it on my own, at the very beginning. They say here the gentlemen who represent these European funds that the Republic of Croatia, has the possibility of withdrawing EUR 11 billion, is, that sounds great, indeed, if we were able to withdraw EUR 11 billion, I would consider maybe that the Republic of Croatia should stay in the EU if that were good. But according to this report in front of us, on our tables, we've withdrawn out of those 11 billion euros 7%, so we've pulled 7% literally. So we're not able to pull back, as we'd say, not a little bit more of that money, let alone, let alone everything. At the same time, we each year pay the EU 4 billion kuna, 4 billion kunas of fresh money, healthy money to get back less than that and most importantly to get the money we have to spend on the EU's order, not by what we want to spend, which is our priorities, we don't have to spend what they ordered us to do, I don't know if you're reading who these funds are being allocated to, but I think that's throwing money into the well. For example, I read the last award in the City of Zagreb, the Association Ana Stavinić Rukavina, which is the right hand of Milan Bandić, received 10 million kunas to adapt Croatian health care to EU standards. Are those our priorities? How come politicians or policy-related people get that money again? Why don't we, with four billion kunas, I don't know, open jobs, pay our debts, raise our pensions, our free textbooks, the transportation of students, scholarships, here's four billion kunas to share in scholarships, science, education, I think it would be a better benefit than we give to Mrs. Gloves and the like. With all due respect. Except that we, therefore, are giving more money than we are receiving, and in fact the logic was supposed to be completely reversed, Europe had to give us, not us to her. The question arises as to how many hundreds of thousands and millions of hours of work Croatian workers spent to write projects and justify projects, it is money that may not be visible directly on the account, but it is indirectly and how it feels. We could have given our employees, whether by the ministries, whether by municipalities, whether by schools or by other institutions, we gave them other tasks to carry out instead of dealing with these European funds, which, as we heard, we often fail at competitions at all. So we spend, I don't know, three months of work signing up for some contest and then we don't pass. Well, isn't that, isn't that demoting, and isn't that in a certain way even humiliating? He says Europe is our friend, is our friend Mr. Tajani our friend, is he our friend or isn't he our friend? In this same European Army party with Mr. Tajani, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic is located. In this same European regiment, there is Mr. Viktor Orban, who has taken it from us or taken it from us after this law has been passed. In this same European popular party is Aleksandar Vujčić. Are those friends from Brussels that you might trust? Can anyone answer me from members of the government which is a country, a member of the EU friend of the Republic of Croatia, except for some small maybe countries, perhaps possibly Slovenia, but as far as I can see, they are not entirely honest with us either? They said when we were entering the EU we would increase pensions, today we see pensions shrinking, shrinking, which some strange symbolism has just entered. Pussy. Retirement and salary ratios are constantly decreasing. According to the International Labour Convention, a pension of less than 40% of the salary average is a violation of human rights, so it is not just social degradation, but a destruction of man. And we, according to Pavic's pension reform, have 37% with further decline, so how is it possible when we are in such an EU that is beautiful, beautiful, who loves us, here comes honey and milk, etc. They said corruption would shrink. According to all indicators, corruption is increasing in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because the EU is not a hive of corruption, it is a source of corruption. Everything that's done in HS, in Brussels, is done three more times in a worse way. Here we are sitting for 12 days a month, in Brussels are meeting for 5 days, here representatives for not coming to their jobs receive 2,000 euros' salary, in Brussels the same representatives, the same HDZ and SDP get 5,000 euros' salary. That's what Croatian citizens pay for, it doesn't pay for any EU, that's what we finance. What kind of European Parliament is it at all, it is the only European Parliament on the globe where MPs can't propose laws, it can't be called parliament at all, it's kind of a ficus even worse than HS, here at least we pretend that we're passing laws even though we know they're being passed according to the instructions of stakeholders, and even there, it's all about red tape that's three times more ridiculous than our bureaucracy. Well, look at that head of the European Commission, Junker, he doesn't know if he's left, he's right. I don't think a man like that should be able to run this fire company. I don't know the country's, let alone the continent with 700 million people. I don't know if it's normal for you, if it's a role model that we have to follow then I don't know, then I guess I'm crazy. In my opinion, this is unworthy, uncultural, primitive and extremely harmful to the interests of the Croatian people. Have you read it published before the day a German strategy industrialized for the period until 2030, if anyone has read it, no one even knows it exists. And what it says there, I'll tell you. If we do not keep our jobs in industry, we will not be able to achieve social measures, GDP growth, investment in science, education and culture. And what does Croatia do, what does Croatia do, tell me what industrial production is like in our country? Do you know for 24 months in a row, it is the great success of Mr Plenkovic, who calls everyone but himself ignorant, I don't know his own buttheads, and he doesn't see his own failures in the economy. Why did he destroy the shipyards, by accident or on purpose? On purpose. According to which instructions, according to the instructions of Brussels. Why did he give INA, who, by whose order? Again, according to the instructions of Brussels. We have to ask them if we can have a share, we have to ask them if we can give a guarantee, if we can give someone credit, etc. Without large companies, large Croatian-owned companies, Croatia will be reduced to a pre-modern country, we will be back in the 19th century, we will literally depend on the lord's mercy. Do you know that we have to give 75% of our customs duties in Brussels, do you know that we have to give our share of VAT in Brussels, do you know that drugs are 5 to 6 times more expensive just because we are a member of the EU, do you even know how the price of the medicine is calculated, who determines the price of the medicine? The price of the medicine in Croatia is calculated on the basis of the average price of the medicine in Germany, Italy and Spain. So tell me how Croatia can set its prices at German prices, how is that possible? So much for the success of your pre-accession funds and EU accession in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130082	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We move on to the next debate on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130083	Thank you, Vice-President, honourable state secretary with associate, colleague and colleague, this report means it is done from 1 January to 30 June 2017 more or less can be identified with similar reports and previous periods and those until 2018, i.e. it is likely to be discussed over a year and a half to two. But what could generally be said is read from this report especially when compared financially in the percentage amount that is available in a certain time period of attracting these funds, how much of the projects were run by looking at and financially, how much was agreed and how much was paid. So we have to be aware means a time period of 6 months, it would be far more exact indicators if we could do one longer, wider periods follow, a minimum year and a half to two as long as it takes practically from running to realising certain projects. This part of the report, I'm sorry, there's no reason not to support it are mostly numbers, but what I'd like to look a little bit at is what I would like to point out it's in point 5. It's an irregularity and what we certainly don't, and it means the period from 2008 to 2017, and all the way to 2017, and what I can't help myself without commenting, means irregularities and fraud. Now irregularity is something that is acceptable to me, it can be understood for a number of reasons because in that period and before Croatia joined the EU, after we became an EU member, and even today, today 2019, the question is not only of the amount of projects but of the primary quality. Who has run them, who has done the applications and can accept certain irregularities especially as regards the part, and one of the most of these irregularities is in public procurement procedures, because the law itself is extremely complex and complicated and, of course, there is a question of the quality and qualifications of those who do this segment. But this part about fraud, it's absolutely unacceptable. The question is, I'm asking the question, what kind of trick forms are these, or how could I call them, and who was it that wanted to cheat, if that's literally the word here, saying fraud, so someone wanted to trick someone. I ask the question how? Did he give the wrong information, knowing that his project could pass? But why I'm saying this, of course, is necessary here everything that says about irregularities, which is purpose, protection, financial primarily as regards European money, etc., etc. However, I am also asking the question that has been partially tried, I believe that by applying and amending the new law in fact by applying the new Regional Development Act, by forming public institutions as the Agency, by further education from local levels and education of all kinds, not only by the Agency, but by supporting institutions owned by local self-government and regional ones, which have just avoided this category of frequent irregularities, and not by fraud. I'm asking a question further, and the processes that last in the Resar Ministries as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to simplify the checks on the compliance of the projects themselves with the competition. So here's one, one example that is more than known, I think it was in February 2017, when a contract was signed with a local action group, because then certain projects were downgraded to the implementation and tendering through local action groups, means measure 7.4 Investment in the launch, improvement and expansion of basic services for rural populations including leisure, cultural activities and so on, and then a contract was signed on the amount, for a measure of 19.2, 7.2 million kuna. Today, today, today, it's still going on. Well, now I'm going to let you, you're going to let me bother you so much with these exact dates, the statistical indicators, what are the reasons? So, first it was waiting to be passed, it was passed, here I am, 29.05.2018, so it's practically somewhere for years and, more than a year and a half, it couldn't be implemented, and the contract was signed. The projects were prepared, the same projects from the factors, from stakeholders, local self-government, whether there were OPGs, were part and measure 19.3 and 19.4, meaning something and these others, meaning not only, I don't know, infrastructure, cultural or whatever projects from the local level, in order to call the tender from LAG, the local action group, and the deadline for the application was, meaning by January 07th. The procedures, although the new regulations have shortened, you are still asking, waiting, you have no feedback about it, all looking at it, so, on February 17, 2017, today is the 21st time I think it's 21st, which means exactly two years. An opportunity has been missed, not only for projects to be realized, but for running a new one. Now, that's what, that's the part that needs to be asked anyway, and the bodies that carry out, primarily means the most responsible ones that are, the Ministry of Regional Development, so here, of course, that's seen and probably before, means, it's not, it's not, it's just one, one small example, and such examples as the lack of administrative capacity in the systems that are doing the checking, that I'm not just saying to those who are preparing the projects, it's been going on, so additional employment is approved, so the government is in April 2017, I need to hire 676 employees, I'm interested in what extent it is, it's worked out. We are aware of the fact that for the evaluation and valorisation of these projects, in order for them to get approval at all, one specific period should be studied systematically, to see what and how to get there at all, to come to the conclusion of the contract, and ultimately to the realization itself, and then to check, because certain types of projects, I speak in general, means, only after the execution, only after you have paid back the money. What's a general problem, and I believe that comes out of it, and these statistics that don't speak, they don't exactly come in favor of us, we have to be aware of that, exactly these long procedures. What is very interesting and can also be seen from the Report, from previous Reports, I must comment, in 2013, we entered the European Union, we used pre-accession programmes before, obviously only according to these some indicators began to work to correct irregularities, to further empower administrative in 2017, unfortunately. In '15 and '16, completely dysfunctional, inoperable, and of course that's the result and these results that aren't at the level we might expect, which we should, but also now I believe there's room for certain processes to be carried out for the sake of self-checking, to try to speed up. I was also when, on the Committees, and when it was the Regional Development Act itself, we formed public institutions, good intentions, but I don't know, I'd also like to see after the time being what the results are, they're in the jurisdiction of regional self-government, that's one thing. Secondly, I believe that there are still capacities, and I know, there are supporting institutions that are owned, in the jurisdiction of local self-government, which should certainly be put more intensively by the Ministry of Regional Development in office even if it's an evaluation check, these are certified people, highly educated people who know business. So what should certainly be pursued in the next period is that the efficiency of the entire system is absolutely improved and that these results will be achieved through the time period until 2023, to achieve these figures that have been assigned to us, which they have given us in some way. Furthermore, the picture is never black white. We must also ask ourselves, what was negotiated, when it was negotiated, because we are witnessing now and in this time period, when trying to re-use the operational programme from one to the other, means in the period when it was negotiated, when the operational programmes were conceived, it obviously did not have full, complete information, in which direction projects, which apply to European money, can be expected. It's one thing, another thing, we must also be more aware of the project situation, which is run by the businessmen, at which level they are, how skilled they are if they write themselves, so this is definitely about small values, or if they hire agencies, which are licensed, to what extent they are good at writing these projects. Likewise, as far as agriculture itself is concerned, of course, I think that the least problem and the greatest passing through, perhaps I am wrong or I got the wrong statistical data, it's also not about some excessive amounts, financial amounts, but what people themselves have done with support or advisory services that the vast majority of these projects have passed or have not been so rigorously controlled in that pre-accession section. We will certainly support this report with a recommendation and a note or perhaps a single dose of criticism. Our goal is to attract all of us to 2023, all that is drawn, not to make more payments than we withdraw, which is certainly not the case, but also to prepare ourselves better for that perspective that comes in 2021 and 2027, as well as to get as much quality information as possible that the operational programmes that will be, to be in line with real needs, not only the markets of the economy, agriculture but also local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130084	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of IDS, PGS and RI, dear colleague Tulio Demetlik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I will state the position of our club, that the situation regarding the use of European funds in Croatia is far from necessary and satisfactory, which confirms and submits a report. The most responsible for such a situation is the poor state policy of the ruling majority and the state administration itself, which does not carry out procedures concerning the exploitation of European funds, sufficiently engaged and professionally enough. I'll also agree with the State Secretary's exposure, that we didn't prepare in time, that we didn't invest in human education, that we're past time, and that now we have to catch some speed up. But what worries me is that mistakes are still being made and laws are being passed that do not just contribute to the acceleration and quality of the funds withdrawn from the European funds. When I talk about bad state policy, and about this topic, first of all I mean the index of development, the unit of local and regional self-government, which the government, or the resolution ministry, established last year and which actually punishes those most successful units of local and regional self-government in Croatia. The government decided on that occasion to help the less developed Croatian landscapes, by reducing the potential for those most successful, I guess, and this stems from government policy, that money is not necessary. It's unacceptable, and I dare say embarrassingly, that government officials tell us, so what you would like, you have enough money and you can handle these projects by your own means. We think that such a policy is completely wrong and long-term harmful to all of us for the country for our citizens, as well as for the whole economy, because let me repeat, what we were saying then, if you stop the locomotives that are pulling forward, you're going to slow down the whole train. We at the IDS Club don't mind helping less developed units, but because of such indices of development, those more developed have made it difficult to withdraw money. We therefore expect to review and amend the law precisely in correcting these injustices concerning those underdeveloped. Namely, parts of Croatia, which are for our opportunities above the average, are in European frameworks, so that in these parts should be allowed to develop and progress more quickly and not to make them... I will remind you that we have recently debated and that the government has adopted a new proposal to divide into NUC2 regions and then we saw that only 3 counties along the City of Zagreb cross the 50% average, the European average of GDP per capita. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's devastating and it can't satisfy us. So I don't agree with Mrs. Devereaux's statement. Brnke Juričev Martinechv that we are approaching that 50% average and that we can be happy with it, because let's not forget at that 50% average, that it takes an average where the other 26 EU countries are involved, that Bulgaria and Malta are there and all of these are underdeveloped, and we seem to be back at the bottom, and that's what we're trying to satisfy. The next thing I want to say is, these are competitions carried out according to the so-called method. The fastest finger. It is a completely inadequate and bureaucratic model of allocation which does not take into account the quality of the projects themselves and the possible positive effects of their realization, but is guided by who first sent the application. I hope that the resolution ministry will understand the negative consequences of the allocation in this way and that it will break down with this practice. When we talk about the subject of EU funds, we need to mention again one case from the Istrian County that shows all the dissatisfaction and unprofessionalness of the state administration to carry out tenders for the award of funds. So I want to look at a concrete example in practice. On 16 November last year, the deadline for the submissions of projects to the competition under the Rural Development Programme was 721, which enables investment in the construction of public water supply systems, disposal and treatment of waste water. In addition to the project documentation to be prepared for a valid application, one of the mandatory documents to be attached was the opinion on the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment issued by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. As a applicant for the tender, the Istrian Voda Company sent a request for the above opinion, which was received at the Ministry on 11 October last year. The ministry's response, which is almost formal in nature, for 14 projects in the Istrian County, which should significantly improve the water infrastructure in the interior of Istria, comes after 35 days. Exactly 16 November at 11 o'clock and 47 minutes, by e-mail or exactly 13 minutes before closing the tender. So, let me repeat, 13 minutes before the tender closed, this led to the fact that these projects were not possible to report on time. I'm here asking the authorities an open question. How can that happen? How is it possible that one ministry is so irresponsiblely handling applications for competitions? Whether our goal is to attract as much money as we can, or to boast that we've arrived at 50%, 60 or our goal, is what someone said 105%. We at the IDS Club have already repeatedly warned about this case, but unfortunately, no one has been made manifest and invited now from this pay phone, to finally shed light on what happened in this particular case? Whether it's another series of government red tape or, worse still, it's about deliberately shutting down and decommissioning projects from Istria. There's one question to be asked. Is that what you really want to punish Istria with? And finally, from the results of the report itself, it is clear that Croatia is not successful in using EU funds, as much as the government is trying to show that everything is great, wonderful and successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130086	I thank my esteemed colleague Demetliki. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130087	Thank you very much, vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker. Although you yourself said that the data that is older than a year and a half are current, that they are worth discussing, I don't think so, and probably not most of you because everyone who has been discussing here today has just used new current data relating to November 2018, and you yourself have used the latest data, so you said that with 1 January 2019, if I remember correctly, the amount of projects agreed is somewhere at 62%. So we can't come from an aacronic debate, we can draw concrete and good conclusions from old data because it's just old and it's simply impossible. However, it is worth the use of this speaker and this topic for the EU funds theme and always to speak again and again about the figures found in the envelope for the Republic of Croatia. So, once again, I need to say that this envelope is huge and that it is 10.7 billion euros, 10.7 billion euros, which are therefore intended for the Croatian market, i.e. for Croatian users. EU funds are extremely important, above all, for the visibility of the benefits that the EU brings us. Non-exploitation or poor absorption of EU funds is the reason why Eurosceptics, for example, why Bunjac's colleague had such a debate, because simply by not exploiting EU funds, poor absorption, we give water to the mill, so to all those who really do not think that the EU is any step towards making all these safe funds available depend exclusively on the EU, but actually depend on us. To focus these 11 billion euros or invest in the very parts of Croatia's weakest economy, surely today we would not be at the bottom of the European scale, especially all economic criteria, and the EU funds are almost the key instrument by which we could, therefore, be removed from the bottom. The government itself in budget planning for 2018 was a bit ambitious in this, but very quickly in the first budget rebalancing gave up that ambition and I think somewhere by 2.7 billion euros, so it reduced 2.7 billion kuna, reduced the possibility of EU funds absorption in 2018. And when we ask ourselves why this is so, which are the main obstacles, why we are not more successful in the absorption of EU funds, then we do not have to invent hot water, it is enough to read those European Commission reports relating to the Republic of Croatia in this context. And the main features are, therefore, the main focus of the European Commission's objections are what we know, which is that in Croatia two key sectors for the absorption of the Eu Funds are not exactly right, and that is public administration and local self-government, and that it was necessary to do so strategic reforms in these two sectors in order to therefore be prepared and to be more able to absorb the Eu Funds. I mean, what does the government do? Instead of structural reforms, the government adopts laws in these two sectors, such as lex sheriffs or, therefore, the Regional Development Act, which are either mountainous and mountainous areas, which are, by their content, in their scope, all structural reforms. We have problems not only at local level, not just at the regional level, we also have problems at national level with capacities. In fact, out of 100,000 people working in public administration, barely 1,000 to 2000 deal with the absorption of Eu funds. And in this particular work, it is now fully visible that it has actually become entangled in the implementation, and those bodies that are responsible for implementation have become narrow throats and are simply coming to the problem and in the bargaining, and in particular in the cost of funds, and this problem in the cost of funds can lead to disaster or recovery, recalling funds, and then all those users who used EU funds will fall into big, big, big problems. What do you say in the end? So, what you said, Secretary of State. We have obviously not prepared ourselves for this financial perspective 2014-2020. We were not ready and we will not be good at withdrawing EU funds however it ends. So we'll either be the last one or we'll be the last one or we'll be the third one in the back. So we didn't take the chance. I am afraid that we are doing the same for this financial perspective, so which is following us and, instead of talking about something here today, about the 2017 data, it might be wiser that, like some of the parliaments in Europe that have not only a plenary debate on the new financial perspective but also have special parliamentary committees dealing with the new financial perspective, that our Parliament had that as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130088	I thank my esteemed colleague. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report, which is before us, is actually a cause for discussion because it refers to a period which began 2 years ago. So the State Secretary himself said here that the situation is very different now, I hope it is so, therefore, that 60% of the funds that have been or have been available to us, but we are faced with the fact that we are discussing a single report with a great delay and that in itself speak of the data that are in it, makes it a little immaterial and it is obvious that people concentrate on the debate in general about the problems we have with the use of European funds and these are large. And according to this report, the situation is not good. For anything relating to the use of funds provided in European funds as of course an option for each Member State, it is not in any way the EU's fault. It's our fault. And that logic that when we don't do something right, we always find someone else guilty will just keep us in this imaginary, imaginary world in which we never have any responsibility but always have some other responsibility that kind of opened up two possibilities for us. One refers to the possibility of progressing the economy through the use of the European common market, which, of course, is more successful for those who are more competitive, so I would say that these results are seen even regionally in Croatia, so those regions and counties that were more prepared and which were more economically competitive have significantly profited from the EU's duty-free and duty-free market, which is northwest, Zagreb, that is Istria, Primorje, those who were not in this respect did not actually profit significantly from the common market. The second and, in my opinion, less important but of course, the non-important element is the possibility of using European funds. They are, of course, available to all, but as a country, we would have to make a special effort to make sure that those parts of Croatia and that type of activity that are lagging behind, use this instrument for economic cohesion because, therefore, the development of cohesion and unification, let's say levels of development within the EU and, of course, within each country individually to use it, and the funds as they are indeed and intended. As regards the report itself, therefore, which is for the first half of 2017, I do not think it is quite convincing that some of the data shows progress by comparing this period with the period of the second half of 2016. Which obviously did nothing because there were elections, because the government was built, because it was the situation as it was, compared to nothing, 300% of success, it's not some particular, order a result. Only the report, and this is not only about this report, but it is about the general reports that we receive regarding the use of the European Funds, is really untransparent. You have to be an expert on this area in order to be able to track exactly what it's about because on the one hand it's about the whole financial perspective, then you take some segments, then you don't specify the possibility that the funds are being used so-called. N+3, therefore, the year until which can be used + for an additional three years, so in this respect, it is someone who wants to get this information into the report, almost impossible to get to what exactly it is, and then only at the end of the whole financial period, so, in 2020, we will suddenly face the fact that we have generally taken advantage of the financial opportunities that the funds provide, and in some areas we will be terribly bad, but people are not the EU problem, and that is our problem and I would say that this can be considered a partly political, partly structural problem. I'll say what I think is a political aspect of this problem. Therefore, many institutions of the state, including the national level, but certainly the local level a) do not agree, b) there is also a phenomenon that they do not want to run for the European Funds because there is, however, stronger control of the spending of money, so there must be accounts for everything that that money has been spent on. Nobody tells us what we have to spend it on. We must spend it on those projects that we have reported ourselves and which have passed the competition, but often we do not apply to these projects because they are afraid at different levels of people controlling that with the spending of European money and finally c) we have a practice that different politicians represent local themselves as those who have given someone money, therefore, gave the mayor, gave the minister, and when it comes to European money, then it is not possible because they are the money that came from EU funds and there politicians at different or officials at different levels of government are much more difficult to represent than those who, of course, do not give or share some of their money, but share taxpayers' money, but when it comes to European money, it is much more difficult to represent themselves in this way, and it also decours officials at different levels to reach out for EU projects, or to run projects or to make quality projects from European sources of quality projects that are possible. The main conclusion of both this report and the reports that we had before and I'm afraid that, instead of competing over this, we would have to design some more efficient model and help any companies, individuals, any units of local self-government to run for European funds, in designing projects, say when you look at units of local self-government, there are probably 5-6 type projects that everyone needs, which each unit of local self-government will say they need, why not create some kind of model of these projects that are then adapted to the size and needs of the unit of local self-government that we know are going through because they've already been proven to pass in this form. One of the countries considered most successful, among the new members, considered most successful in the use of the European Funds is Poland. Poland made almost one army of young people who were in charge of, during that first period, who were in charge of local self-government units, and then for private ones, when, in private terms, companies or individuals candidates across Poland who worked with both people and units and units of local self-government to design projects that were going through. And that's why, but it's just that it's an organized state. So it's not something that's spontaneously created or something that some mayor, mayor or some company has remembered but has organized a state, it's invested in it, and it's a hundred times that I don't want to say a thousand times more back in exploiting the funds Poland has achieved. So, if something works let's rewrite it, let's use such a single model and for us, although of course it will be for those reasons of policy that I have previously cited, it will be a certain resistance to it, and that is why it is important that the state is just the initiator of such a new model of project design and candidateing projects for the European Funds because this is why the use of funds is also in the application and in realisation I would say embarrassingly small. I'm going to use it to mention one example that our club, members of our club, had long started, and these are the famous elevators. We have the possibility, therefore, of installing elevators into buildings that don't have it, we have the opportunity to initiate the correction of the Operational Programme and get funds to install those elevators for which citizens have shown great interest. However, this will depend on whether we will be successful in launching such an initiative will depend on the success and results of withdrawing funds from the European Funds so far. If it turns out that we are not able to do so, then of course there is no basis to ask for a correction of the Operational Programme and additional funds if we are not able to withdraw or what is now at our disposal. So, in some ways, with poor results, we're also making it impossible for ourselves to do what we want and what we can do in the future. Also, for example. The fund, the European Fund for Employment, is here, as far as I can see, about 50, projects for 50% of the funds as planned, and we used 17%, respectively, of Slovakia 100%, although in terms of efficiency, have enabled them through what was originally intended for them. Some things are certainly specific and we need to be designed specifically for Croatian conditions, but some things are really applicable anywhere. So if we're not able to do it ourselves and we haven't done it by now, so we use examples of those who did it, we've been successful and we apply them to our own situation. Of this we can benefit only from that and Croatian citizens can benefit even though officials at different levels may not be able to make themselves important about how they have assigned money to someone, but the funds that belong to us can be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130090	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130091	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary, here we are talking about withdrawing funds. The results in the EU funds, mentioned EUR 10.5 billion, mention the figures and the huge amounts, and simply when we look at the results here we will start from agriculture. Is our agriculture competitive if we join the EU? Well, it's not, of course, that Slavonia is empty, that we don't have an empty farm, of course, that the competition and the milk that we import, which is questionable what quality we've destroyed domestic dairy, domestic pork, we import into various lobbies, but there were funds intended for the OPGs, where did they end up? Now this is questionable whether they ended up with the OPGs and families who traditionally dealt with family economies of examples of milk or pork production. We are better to import foreign pigs to import which are essentially GMOs fed by food, we all know that where the kilo of meat is 10 kuna in trade chains, where we import from New Zealand for 10 kuna lamb that is frozen, which is questionable quality, where we import questionable egg quality, where we simply bring the Croatian village to ruin. And here we boast and talk fog about Croatian agriculture. There are more weeds in the Republic of Croatia in the fields unscathed since the EU entered the country than when, and we have as technology, we have tractors, we have everything we need, but when the ox was plowed, there are more fields of eagles than now. That's what we're witnessing. We have traffic, so our railways are tourist attractions, they weren't, here are young people, even in Western movies, I welcome young people who came here, there are no students, there are no such ones in the film, Western films, during the Wild West in the United States, they weren't such railways, it's a tourist attraction. Which you gentlemen are invited to two-thirds of the empty Republic, two-thirds. When we talk about roads and I see here I'm just showing myself to the government of Andrej Plenković who had a session in Split, all the projects you promised, I'll repeat it 100 times, which you promised countless times are roads that connect Drniš, Knin, Sinj, Cetinski end, Imotski end and Vrgorački end... thousands of times, thousands of strategies, thousands of documentation, thousands, and when we give the amendment, and when we give the amendments here to survive that area, to the budget, to be in the Croatian Roads programme, you don't accept it, and now, before the elections, you'll be fed up by the flock of lambs and sheep that are left, only very few of them are left for as long as you've eaten them down in the pre-election campaigns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are your EU funds, before the elections to promise people as well as the Mayor Boban who promises I don't know what to build, but there is no one to build more houses since 2011 with 143,000 inhabitants, now it's 30,000, 40,000 less, and it's not known how much less because many young people are still going to their addresses, and they live in Zagreb, but less and less in Zagreb, but in Ireland, Germany. So what are your promises except that you come to the high-end and savoury prosciutto, what you come to Sinjska Alka, what is your promise, what you take pictures of, what we host you, what at the expense of the city, what the costs of the local self-government unit go to and drink, okay, we're friendly, we have something to show the gastronomic offers, and it's a good mess of tables, and it pays the unit of local self-government, and that's all you've done for that end. ... The promises and large gatherings of a moving circus in Dalmatia, Dalmatia's Zagora mainly, nothing left behind but mixed tables. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all you of the EU funds and your stories, and your fogs are doing here, and I'm sorry that there's only one, two HDZ deputies left, so let's deny me, if there's the same flock now or sheep, or lambs of course, but they've eaten those lambs and sheep, so it's very little, you've destroyed even that in the pre-election campaign, instead of encouraging people to deal with cattle, that you've pulled this money from the EU funds, you've even watered what it was. Well, it's more than embarrassing what you've done from that end, the same projects you promise from year to year, so here's what's the infrared project, Mr. Secretary for, in the Dalmatian Zagora area? In 2016 and a study of the feasibility of the merger from Križica to Kukuzovac, the feasibility study existed and there is now, it is said that from 2019 there will be completed documentation, but there are no building permits, what will run you for, what project? 'You want to join the Kninian, this pride of the city when you come to the Storm, of course, to the extent that no one can be near you, so you don't accidentally whistle, because people will certainly whistle at you, you don't even have the courage of the Prime Minister to come' and speak, but it's simply a blocked city like you're entering Beirut in the hardest of times. You just don't promise anything to those parts, I mean, where are the EU funds? We have a Knin hospital in the middle of Dalmatia Zagora, so if there are EU funds to decide that we, in Dalmatia Zagora, have a floor for physical therapy and need a pool, yes, but you called it veterans, Veteran Hospital Croatian Pride, is proud, is. While at the same time in Split, in Sibenik there are crowds of people, simply not a man, women die in rows they can't base, the examination of the ultrasound of the breast cannot, in my Sinj can't do, in Vrgorec is Ante Pranic, we still have in the Houses of Health diagnostic devices with, from, from, from, from the Second World War from Sutjeska there, written Sutjeska even. ... The veterinary cells instead of the lab, it's a disaster what you've done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You dare to declare the developed, how much did you withdraw EU funds? I'm only interested in numbers, and you said a billion and a half kuna that in the Republic of Croatia, it was in... , so membership fees, fees, obligations, courtships to Tunska and Juncker, Tajani, Tajani, Tajani, for courtship, you would sell your father's grave, just to entangle yourself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, I don't know if you can understand that. And it's not enough just to come to Imotski and talk, here it is, we've solved the Law of Hill-Mountain where it's absolutely, the envelope is 40 million kuna, it's risen from 30 to 40, and it's increased from 45 units of local self-government to 85 or 86, so you've reduced that and that. The only goal of the EU funds is to push the harmful projects that Minister Buric will push, which is the husband's owner, to push to build energy projects to reach foreigners, means that environmental, economic and energy-hazarding projects, such as the Peruca Termopower Plant, are your interests and you've pushed it, brother, to lobby in the European Union. I'm here because he's not my colleague, Šipic, he's the mayor of my neighboring town, so let him confirm what a demographic fall is, I repeat once again, ministers often come, maintain the stands in Trilj, boast about the asphalting, but what are the projects for which we have investments, investments in the Dalmatian Zagor? They're gone. Except for the asphalting at the time of the election. And this is on the burden of the budget of local, county, and here, as my colleague Pranic said, that the mayor shares 50 million and thus holds mayors, the heads of local self-government, so we in Sinj have a hall, a school, owned by the County that could withdraw EU funds, where children play in boots and umbrellas, because the sneezier, in Sinj, in the center of Zagor. What are the County doing? You decentralize their money, and they control it, and the EU funds, we've paid more, five times, and it'll cost us more, because what we've done in our minds, we produce, what our children, we go to Ireland, Germany, and it's your fault that You cheat, you lie [[Intruder: Thank you...]] You are advocating the EU and its officials [[Intruder:...respected colleague Bulju...]] Thank you. [[/Intruder:...at this debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130092	We have a few replicas. Before the replica, I would like to ask you all to welcome the students and students, and their teachers and teachers of the High School of Road Traffic, Zagreb, who have joined us at the Gallery, we would like to offer them a pleasant stay in HS... Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130093	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, you mentioned infrastructure projects in the area of Dalmatia Zagora and the merger of Knin with the highway and the union of Sinj with the highway and the merger of Imotski with the highway and the merger of Vrgorac and the highway with the Trajektna Luka Drvenik so-called. fast road Ravca-Drvenik. They lied to us neatly for the 2007 programming period, 2013, so they're lying to us again neatly for the 2014 programming period, 2020 and now they're lying to us neatly for the 2021 period, 2027 because how to even talk about projects that don't have building permits. You have a situation in Croatian politics that the president of the Croatian-Dalmatia County of Split, Mr. Ante Sanader, announces a project that does not even have an idea solution to the location permit and says that they will win grants, so by whatever means, we do not have a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia until 2027, the strategies are totally uncoordinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130094	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130095	Well, I guess Ante Sanader thought it was towards the coloring of the tunnel, but I guess it's not going to the EU funds that the sea is five times afraid of the same tunnel and charge itself ten times more expensive, obviously these are projects that need not construction permits, but absolutely this part of the documentation that we're looking for as a parliamentary representative that exists in the RH programme to complete the documentation that we've been giving to Drnis and Knin's compound and the Ceti area merger, Sinja and Cetin end and Ravca-Drvenik and Imotski end, we're giving amendments to continue the documentation, to get to the building permit, so that we can design this project, they don't want and these are their projects because, they're much, much more important public procurement, they're much more important to them things, and that they're more likely to be afraid of the tunnels to be, they're more expensive to be, the coloring tunnels than the works in the tunnel in the tunnel. How many studies were made, how many, I think, more studies in the Republic of Croatia than in the United States and China together. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130096	.../...respected fellow Bulju for reply/... Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130097	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I must deny you that our railroads are still more modern than those in, in the wild west, today we have locomotives with diocious relaxation, with Tyritoric, we have diesels, though they're all 50 years old at least. The only thing that hasn't changed since that wild west you mentioned is the speed of trains and they're at the level of those they were. And as for all of this that you've been talking about, many people in agriculture don't even want to choose to apply to the front of the accession funds, actually to the EU funds because when they get EU funds, they have to carry out this 5-year activity they've been looking for, and they're not sure if they're going to stay in the Republic for five years and they just don't want to be in debt this way and be mandatory to someone for 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130098	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130099	As far as railways are concerned, every year since we joined the EU from Zagreb to Split, two hours is slower per year for you to come, so much about progress, about EU funds, about 10.5 billion, about Junker, Tusk... By courting them, so, the triba strongly said, that political elites, deceive the people and tell them the truth, do we not have any results on any issue, here and especially as far as the railways are concerned, and I've even heard that Long-time Selo-Kristevci designed the railroad, the project made, but there's no station, so you can't, how will it be rail when there's no station, where will the statue, who, who will, will, will jump people, so who will, how, in what way? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just going to do this one more time. We've got a railroad. It seems to us the infrastructure to be the best tourist attraction for making Western films, here, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130100	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica of respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130101	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you said that there is no project in Dalmatinska Zagora or if anyone knows about any project to tell you. I will now tell you, here, the city of Drniš was named last year by the city of the 13th in a row by the withdrawal of European funds, which I think is a good and enviable place. Here are just some of the projects, construction and equipment of the recycling yard, strengthening the territorial and economic development of cross-border cooperation, building a road with infrastructure in the Pazar residential zone, building Drinovci kindergarten, building a roof and a shop, building a spatial plan and energy reconstruction of the Drniš children's kindergarten, the integrated plant of cultural heritage restoration and Natura Drniš, I think it's a solid number of projects for just one town of Dalmatia Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130102	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130103	I don't know. Do you and I live in the same valley constituency? When were you in Drnish? And even the cat is gone, but the mice don't have anything, they don't have anything, so it's empty down there, are you aware of what you're talking about? - Where's the workhouse? So did you pass those villages of the Dalmatian Fire? No children, no salaries, no schools, no kindergartens, and now it's investing as in some kind of infrastructure, and there's no people, so you can praise yourself and so you can read lipo, but there's no people, there's no job, so it's worse than during the Turkish Empire, you compare, take a parallel, there's never been worse, and you've even, this government has declared Drnish a developed neighborhood, there's no employees, there'll be no unemployed, of course there's no unemployment, when you empty it, and that's the worst, and all these projects absolutely haven't opened any workplace, except that you can boast how you pulled the big money [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Money... [[Intruder:...kolea Bulj]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130104	Let's move on to the next line, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130105	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. When we talk about EU funds, in fact, and money from EU funds are partly allocated by the Croatian ministries, so here, Minister Pavić, Minister of Labour and Pension System awarded money for women's employment, and as a coincidence, it has allocated 9 million kuna to the centre run by Ana Stavnić Rukavina, the right hand of Milan Bandic and his deputy, and we have to ask ourselves how many abuses there are in the award of these EU funds, which are obviously allocated at times and in a way to satisfy certain political interests, and not so much to satisfy the interests of citizens and taxpayers who are filled with the same EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130106	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130107	He's a friend of yours. The primary interest of our parliamentary deputies should be how much the Croatian state has paid in the EU funds and how much we have paid back. It is a primary interest and what are the effects of our membership through EU funds in the EU. I'm sorry when I look at agriculture, traffic infrastructure, when I look at demographics, it's never been worse. Never worse. I'm talking about where I live, and that's how it is in Lika and Gorski Kotar, and probably where you live. We have two-thirds of Croatia empty. And it goes unconstitutional and now it's going as some kind of incentive in my county to rebuild houses, which is commendable, but when it's all moved out, who's going to build houses and how? Thank you. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj for his reply.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130108	We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, students of Transport School, welcome to HS and right here, when we talk about an extremely important topic today, it is about EU funds, a European topic, which my colleague Bulj has done a little of this picturesquely on lambs and sheep, but also in that part can be seen, I would say how badly we operate in this area. We may look a little funny when a fellow Bull is talking, but basically, he's talking the way he sees it from his perspective. What is important to say is that Croatia is not quite effective in this area, however much the government boasted, as much as Minister Žalac is trying to justify her activity. When you compare countries with which we can compare because the new EU members, when you see how much they are withdrawing funds, how much Croatia is withdrawing, it is incomparable. So our payments at half a billion euros a year, compared to what we withdraw, is, a little more money comes through EU funds, but at the end of the Croatian net, what we received or what we eventually paid through these projects again to other countries, we are deep down. One Romania and one Bulgaria have this membership rate and what they receive from EU 1:5 funds. So, when you look at it in relation to Croatia, then you realize that we are not successful and that whatever this government has done over the past two years has certainly not made progress in relation to the withdrawal of structural funds and on the other hand, what is lacking in the Croatian government is the capacity to withdraw certain money and certain projects. The lack of reforms, the lack of flexibility of the EU funds, certain projects that we are offered, lead to us not being successful in the whole process. Even more than the government, some units of local self-government have failed. The city of Zagreb, which should be the leader of the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, is one of the most unsuccessful units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, looking at the possibility of withdrawing money, looking at possible projects, looking at employees and all that can be seen within it, the city of Zagreb does not use its capacities and potentials at all. For example, we now have a project by the Sljemen cabler, which the great mayor has opened, but the question is why Zagreb and Zagreb women have to pay more than 5 hundred million kuna, which is the most expensive wire in the world. So, the city of Zagreb will have the most expensive cable in the world. Which is why we have to pay it out of the budget when it is such projects, it is one type project regionally supported by EU funds. Why did we not report this to EU funds, which is why the city of Zagreb did not report it to EU funds? Well, because of that, that is, my opinion is, and now, you're going to say whether you share that opinion as much as I do, because the EU funds have a very hard time with the half-drinking principle, I'm giving half a stick. So, on this side, there's a lot of transparent procedures there and you can't have a lot of ways to spend money non-transparently, and unfortunately, my impression is, once again, that that's why Zagreb doesn't apply to funds because these projects of the giants that are in principle, it's a shame that we don't use EU funds, which is why they go directly. Because then there is no supervision, quality because the city of Zagreb is quite intransparently spending budget money and there is no such principle as I just said. Or, for example, when we watch, here today Dinamo is playing a historic game and we are confident that we will all finally and, not only welcome spring but we will continue to compete with Europe for a little longer than we have ever seen before. The last time something longer than it was before, the last time more than 48 years ago, so today is a big day for the City of Zagreb, but when we hear the nebulous idea of spending 300 million kuna on a roof in two stands, then again the question is why would the City of Zagreb not use a project and develop a sports infrastructure also with the help of European funds, why? Because of what they could not do then, such nebulous projects that spend hundreds and hundreds of millions of budget kunas of which, I think, citizens have little use for, or have some benefit, but much greater benefits for those who build it, or those who will ultimately have enormous profits from it. And for this reason, the City of Zagreb should turn to the European funds absolutely and to the European funds, to arrange the city centre, means, and this great announcement that the façades are being arranged, we can also finance more than what we now finance through the European Union funds, someone mentioned the elevators, it is not an exclusive project, as Mrs Pusic, her club, it is a project in which we all participate, who cares to raise the value of the properties that are hundreds of years old in, in cities, which have several floors, where our fellow citizens live, who have many years and are difficult already and are moving, that people can't think whether they can go two or three times a day out of apartment because it's not easy to cross someone 30, 40 steps, which is 80 and more, so it's something that can be financed safely from, from the European Union funds. There are many other things that our city could do differently, roads, bridges, we're talking about the Jarun Bridge, it's also possible to finance it, but it's not almost anything. And that is why I think that we should have a general turn, not only in the Government of the Republic of Croatia where Minister Zalac is doing something, and the biggest, biggest effort shows when he fights with a few ministers who, for example, use European funds worse, and from that we have nothing, there should be reforms within the state administration, turned around, I would say quality designing, look at some cities that are extremely successful in that, for example Ludbreg, Jaska, you can look at these examples which I would say the leaders in the Republic of Croatia on this matter, and if we focus, then we can be successful, and then Croatia will benefit from what is in the European Union. Croatia cannot benefit only from what is a formal member of the European Union, because I say this ratio paid as a membership fee and returned through projects still leads us to a negative. It's just seemingly, it looks like we're pulling more, but where's the imported technology that's being invested in, which is mostly from outside. So, on this side, Croatia is, believe me, still in the big minus, not quite as much as my colleague Bulj says, where it all comes down to herds, these, lambs, but, in a serious downside, I estimate that this ratio of membership and withdraw money should be three to four times larger in favour of the money withdrawn, so that we can say that we really have a big or significant benefit from the European Union. On this side, I call on the Government to do this, what I will especially advocate is to free up this potential because it exists, in the City of Zagreb and human, and project, and economic, and financial, whatever you want, Zagreb could look three times different if we had a high-quality urban administration according to the use of these funds, and then these new trades with the facades would be much easier to do, and then at the end of the day and, and the elevators could get, and everything that, in the City of Zagreb, a new bridge, all that is in the City of Zagreb, we know that we need it, and there is no. And when, in the end, we look at an analysis that is very interesting, which says how much the EU's share of money is in the budgets of certain countries, then you can see that the country's leaders are generally new, or where the economy should be developed, such as Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia, Hungary, Poland, they all share over 6%. Croatia has been squeezed somewhere to 3%, so double less than what, than what these countries have, and it is seen that we are not successful, these are the exact data that you cannot cheat on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we are not successful and we still have a lot of work to do, so that Croatia can benefit from some of the European funds and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130110	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130111	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maras, neither we from the HSS nor I, are satisfied with the withdrawal of funds from the European Union, praised Minister Maric that this would be a significant income in the state budget, and we see that this is not the case. And you mentioned Minister Žalac that he only boasted, she should be congratulated on her courage because at a recent meeting, although closed, but some media reported, publicly called some of her fellow ministers not to do a good job, primarily Minister Horvat, Minister Ćorić, Minister Butkovic, that their ministries are working slowly and poorly, not to deliver the documentation in time, so here is just an example of the Ministry of Energy and Environment which had a billion-and-a-half disposition to withdraw and prepare projects, and only 40% or 575 million kuna were realized. But still in something we're leaders, in that year there's about two thousand people employed, and there's a lot of it in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and we're leaders in how to catch people, and we don't know how to withdraw funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130112	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Vlaovic. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130113	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vlaovic, you have relatively precisely warned about one problem, which is that, figuratively, half of Zeline has been employed at the Environmental Protection Fund, so, since you're a member of the HNS as chairman of the Administration, one of the main criteria, when you look at the man's structure of employees, is that you're from Zeline, no. This, and yes, and to wear an orange tie, it's, let's say, one of the stronger criteria, and then Minister Coric comes forward and explains that it's all by law, not by law, but whether it's moral and whether it's justified and if people lose because of it and the desire to be in our country at all, that's the real question, I'm convinced because of such an approach, and there are parties like HDZ and HNS frontal [[Intruder: Thank you...]] People are leaving the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder:...respected colleague Marasu for reply]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130114	Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, come in. Dear fellow Mattelian, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130115	Comrade Maras, you wondered why Zagreb is using at least EU funds as the richest city in the Republic of Croatia? Well, just in that fact that the richest one is hiding is one of the reasons, rich cities like Zagreb are simply unmotivated to invest their own resources in something they think these funds already exist, which is, of course, mildly said, foolish. Another reason is that EU funds, for EU competitions, there are very complicated procedures, so what many think, and they are very transparent and it also does not suit many local self-government leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130116	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130117	Thank you very much. My colleague Mattelian, I agree with that, so that's what I warned you about. So transparency is not something that is dominant in Zagreb and on this side one of the main reasons why it is not used in Zagreb is because it says our mayor that he does not read at all, so he will not bother himself with it, and he may be working in another way, perhaps to read the contracts and work in a transparent way, he would spend less his office time on Zrinjevac. So, because, as little as it is there, it will also have to open an office close by to not waste much time in traffic, so on the other hand, I'm sorry that, I'm really sorry that Zagreb is not developing because there is a huge potential and there are capacities and people because they have a very large city administration and financial, could all of this be happening together, but unfortunately this is not happening because of these reasons that we mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130118	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130119	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, well you said that, in fact, especially as regards this problem that cannot be solved, it is the possibility of using EU funds to install elevators that would certainly be one, especially the only solution for increasing the mobility of older people and people with disabilities in multi-state and multi-story buildings that do not have these elevators, and that is not exclusively the right of anyone, no party here, nor any representative, no man, but what needs to be said that citizens have actually done a huge job, and that this job is not to come or not to be recognised by the Minister Žalac herself. What I found somewhere and in the media is that our lab, so, Mr. Manenica, who says it's a lab. That they sent to Brussels is already used by the Poles and the Czechs, and we do nothing. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130120	I thank my esteemed colleague. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130121	Thank you very much. Comrade Alfirev, any government that cares about its citizens, and we hope that in principle it should be every government no matter what options it is, if you saw a statement of interest of 12000 entry, which means at least 60-70 000 housing units, when we take another 2-3 persons, that means that the interests have been expressed by 200-300 000 of our citizens and now instead of being thrown on the head, figuratively speaking, at work to do it, we as if we were looking for or not us, but the government as if looking for a way that it did not happen. So, on this side, if there are such examples, the government could use it more, insist on helping our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130122	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, this issue of elevators is particularly sensitive when we know, for example, now, only in the city of Rijeka there are 255 five and six-storeys that have no elevators, and there are more than 10 buildings that have 7 or more floors, 7 or more floors, now imagine if someone is 70 or 80 years old and needs to climb on the 7th floor, which means for him to be without an elevator, and we could install it, there was space, definitely there are funds. But it's just one of the problems this government doesn't address. Another problem that I would say is even, even more dangerous than that and waste management. Instead of withdrawing billions, the Republic of Croatia will pay hundreds of millions of kuna for not working on the problem of waste management, but rather some procedures have been initiated. For example, there is a particularly bad example of the City of Zagreb and the joint action of Mr. Ćorić and Mr. Bandić we do not meet what we have committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130124	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. Answer me, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130125	Thank you very much. You are right fellow Grbin, Zagreb is a critical example of bad waste management, a dysfunctional one where, my impression, there is not only incompetence of its fingers inside, but there is a concrete interest which, again I say, is my impression, until the market is settled, the longer it lasts, there are some stakeholders who then earn huge money in that system. I ask a very simple question why the City of Zagreb instead of putting this whole story together, that the citizens or the City of Zagreb have even benefit from the waste, he pays that waste to be taken care of, who knows where and who knows how and how to make money on it. It is a clean line between Bandic, HDZ and individual stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130126	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Maras. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Ministry, the distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today's topic is the Report on Use, on the Structural and Cohesion Funds of the European Union, and I will not talk about it so much because it's from 2017, so what you would say are many data passages, but some I will use in the debate. Why is there even an elemental children's question, why are there European Union funds? So, they are designed to be, let's say, one means for a more balanced development of different countries and regions within the European Union, so that countries that have reached less developed, let's say, in a shorter period, the average, or the European Union, in the standard of living. However, we see that this process is not going well. First of all, what's the key problem? The budget of the European Union, which pays out, therefore, the funds for these various funds, these five funds, amounts to around EUR 150 billion, and that is, it is about 1% of the gross domestic product of the European Union countries. I repeat, only 1% of the gross domestic product of all 28 Member States of the European Union. Here the key question arises, can the European Union single out only 1% of, so with such a limited little budget, can it achieve such grandeous goals, which is that other nations and countries that are poorly developed, raise to a far higher level, to the development of living standards? The answer is simple, it can't. He can't. Why do they not have a budget that would be 20% of GDP in total, 30% as it is on average in all countries? Well, because the European Union is not a state, it is a project that is, as it is said, in heaven or on earth, it is an unfinished project, a political project, therefore it is a Union, it is not a state, it does not, because it does not have a single fiscal policy, then its budget cannot be greater. So what I'm saying is... economic approach to the European Funds, and to the European budget, and everything that comes out of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will not bother here by stating the information that one and the other parties who have ruled Croatia so far and still have used to object to each other, because they have shown and showed their results, and that is why we all suffer in the Republic of Croatia. However, I would now tell you what the formula of European funds that has never been told here is, and I don't think the public knows, and it's written that from 2014 to 2020. Croatia belongs, or available for withdrawal, about EUR 10 billion. In order to withdraw these €10 billion, Croatia must pay €5 billion. So, watch out for delusions, mass, that's propaganda, through public media, that the EU fund minister, the prime minister, every day all the ministers say that 10 billion Euros cost us to withdraw it. They never said half of us were paying. So, when we turned down 5 out of 10 billion, we had only 5 billion at our disposal, gentlemen, of the EUR. Only 5 billion. Now listen, as far as I can, I can make experts in Croatia for so-called fund withdrawal, it's to report 50% of the projects to withdraw funds, no more, no way. So, you remember, we're left with 5 billion, 50% of the most projectable we can pull, how much is it? 2.5 billion, so 2.5 billion, from 10, it's already down to 2.5 billion. Now listen further, from this 2.5 billion that have been realised, which have been realized, 60% is an import component. So, import, machinery, sewers, plumbing, this, 60% of EUR 2.5 billion, that's EUR 1.5 billion, which leaves us with a billion. A billion EUR. Out of the huge 10 billion euros, respected colleagues and colleagues, here I am, to say exchange arguments, dropped to EUR 1 billion. And through ownership of our financial system, banks, telecoms, etcetera, they are drawn from our dear Croatian, tens of billions of kunas. You see, in the former Yugoslavia, there was, there was a similar intensity, but it was called the Fund for the Development of the underdeveloped Republics and provinces, then the richer republics and provinces paid and so on. What's the problem here? Have you noticed that in EU funds policy there is, say, a Fund for Industrial Development? Give me a factory that has been opened by EU funds in the last year, two, specify one factory. It's not there. What is worst, EU funds policy has become an obsession, it has become a substitute for the development policy that needs to go from here. So we pay almost 4 billion kuna every year, surely, hard, tangible in the European budget, and we don't know what we're going to get, so we just have to decide from there what we're going to get. So what's the most invested, which is what they're retired for, I'd call this the Ministry of Retaliation, which is why the most funds are withdrawn? Well, it's infrastructure projects, and not the most important ones, of course, when you build a water line in the village, it's certainly important, you can't say it's not, so if we're pulling something and we're competing for something, so raise that efficiency maximum. If you don't know, or you have a problem, so call the Finns and the Poles, they've reported themselves here, pay them well, because they're going to do something, because they're sure to help us. I repeat, the European Funds, which you've spread so much propaganda that people don't realize at all that this country should have its own development policy, industrial policy, regional policy, or to be and to speak to arguments, because besides being a politician, I'm a university professor. Croatian citizens on savings only have about 200 billion kunas, such a small country, a small economy, it can choke us into 200 billion kunas of accumulation. But do you gentlemen know that so-called. Croatian banks buy more foreign values than our battery, than they approve of agricultural loans in one year, you don't know that, you don't care. Well, that's why we're going to change in the Foreigner Croatia which is serious because we have experts, we're going to turn the story and what I'm saying is good news for Croatian citizens, that we have potential, that we have 200 billion kunas of savings, that we have foreign exchanges, that we can finance our development, that we have smart people, that we're going to pay them well to stay here because they're top experts, valuable, and not like you scattered them around the planet, because of all kinds of exports, only this, as well as previous governments, is the best way to export our best people, our youth, our youth, our youth, and therefore the EU fund policy that prefers only infrastructure and that lower rank, it can't achieve the goals. If you already want to run a real infrastructure project, then it must be the river-Zagreb railway line, the Hungarian-Serbian border, but no one has ever started it, no one has ever done the shovel, that kind of thing we'll run, you're dealing with walking around the village, why, because it's the base for the next elections and you do it. What is visible, which is quite clear, to conclude, this policy, and even what we can withdraw, has not yielded results from, you every day, you are, until now, the Prime Minister speaking, the Minister, you have so much sown contracts in Slavonia, promising that more people can not sow wheat and corn in fields of strength than you have said, these are billions of dollars. Our representatives in the EU, what are they doing? Their greatest reach was to examine the uniformity of the quality of detergents and zeros and I don't remember anything else, I can't do anything else, so the Party will change Croatia as a sovereign party and introduce new standards together with new people in this HS, and all of you who were before and now, you're past, we'll never get out of the crisis and the Republic loses on EU funds, so, to be clear, we pay more than we pay, payments in the Republic are only 9% of what is approved and that's true truth and point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130128	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. We have several replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130129	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, I don't know if you know it, but this railroad construction project has been going towards Hungary for some time now, a little slower than we hoped, but it's working and it's already working, and it's already a project that exists, so I don't know if you're thinking about any more specific project or just that you need to speed it up a little bit. And another thing that I find so interesting, and I'd like you to explain a little bit to me, which makes you think that, here's a HDZ colleague, he's not going to deliberately activate more the EU's potential than what, but what could, is that, in your opinion, some concept that HDZ plans in the long run? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130130	Answer, colleague Lovrinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130131	Well, colleague Maras, these parts of the railroad you're talking about, obviously they're building a few miles away that the government needs to reach a trade agreement with some of the MPs here, so they make a few miles or separate, it's not, it's not serious business, when they start such a big project, it's done fiercely, dynamically, and everybody knows how much it's done. And when you ask me why this government, this coalition doesn't add and achieve success in it, first because it's not capable enough, it's not professional, it's trained, it's usually people who come by connections there, and on the other hand, there's not too much trouble, you know, there's still one good thing at EU level that they're going through all the papers, so it's harder to torture and then it's obviously not that much, but the most important thing is to say as much as you know, you can contract 20 billion Euros, the 50 million withdrawal, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130132	Thank you very much for answering my colleague Lovrinović. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130133	Dear Vice President, dear colleague, speaking and educating the public then it would be good to say that our share of national funds in this is only 15%, which is very significant, given that this is a huge difference from what you say and what mathematics you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130134	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130135	So listen, unfortunately I can't address the public as much as you from HDZ because you've completely privatized the media, HTV has become censored to that extent that I don't remember how I know for myself that it was, you've all taken into your hands, the media, all of it alive, so, you're spending real propaganda, what you're doing is not promotion, it's propaganda, it's propaganda, but I understand you, you have to stick together, you're in the same place, you're in the same train and that, that's so. What you've done, where you've done, show you, so you've sold everything that's left, Petrochemy, you'll destroy the shipbuilding, you see, yesterday you voted to get rid of the INA, you'll break up what little industry is left, I simply can't say anything else. It's just that it's just... [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130136	.../respected colleague Lovrinović to respond/... Next debate, respected colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130137	Here is the esteemed vice president, respected colleagues and colleagues, so when we talk about this report that all interprets as one narrow and something that has passed then it would be good to look at and what is published on the Ministry's pages, and also to look at a previous report, which is the State Audit that has done a very good job and made a report on the review of efficiency implementation of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion 2014 through 2020. And in this particular review report where it says very detailed about all the items and all the problems that Croatia faces and very quality shows the actual state that we currently have in this financial period. In this period, therefore, 10.7 billion euro is available to Croatia as well as almost 500 for cohesion policy objectives, about 2 million for agriculture and rural development and 252 million for fisheries development. Normally, as already mentioned, these are all actually means that enables Member States, less developed, to enable development or convergence towards, according to developed members and thus actually improve their own development. When we look at only the report then we must conclude that so far, a EUR 1.1 billion has been agreed in this period, and that the payment has been made somewhere around EUR 305 million, and this is a significant increase compared to the previous period, and it should and how well it should be looked at when it is taken into account that on the Ministry's pages we have shown from December 2015 to today, when we see that this amount has grown from a total of EUR 985 million to EUR 6,62 billion, which is an increase of almost 5 and a half and almost 6 times, respectively. Normally, we are not satisfied only with the agreement that everything that is realized is of great importance and that which is collected and done until the end. What was paid to users from the European Structural and Investment Funds is also a significant increase and has increased from EUR 291 million at the end of 2016. 1.98 billion euros which is also a multiple increase almost 6 times. The state audit itself in its report also gives an overview of all the funds and use by individual projects, then gives a thorough picture and some of the major projects that have taken place and have been reported at all during that period, and we know that there has been over 30 projects that we now need to be critical of and that this total number has actually been reduced to only 19 projects in the beginning, or almost half to 15. For what? There is a great responsibility for the development of individual plans, projects that are not based, which are not done properly, various property legal problems that exist in the realisation of projects, etc. and that is why it is very important to actually assess the risks that could occur in the process itself and in the nomination of projects, as well as in the finalisation. Where we are also, and I know it from experience, we have great difficulties and in the public procurement itself, and there are difficulties, and there are difficulties, that we have complaints, that we have regrets, that we also have events that individual performers have problems, give up projects, and then the whole projects have to repeat themselves, and that are all the risks that are not actually built up, and that are really important, because without it, there is no finalisation of the project, and then even until the withdrawal of the funds in full. We believe that when we look at October 2016, so almost 3 years ago, the contract rate that was only 9%, and the rate of payment is 2.7%, and when these procedures are increased where they are now over 62% contracted and over 14% paid, then it is something that we must nevertheless consider a major step towards what the government is, and the Ministry has made it easier and easier to make it much simpler, much more quality and easier to report projects and thus actually their realisation. When we look at the relation of other countries, which is an analysis of data at Member State level, we have one analysis compared to 15 countries, where, for example, the value of agreed projects financed by the Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, on 31.12.2017, of 15 countries, Croatia is at 11th place, and there is around 47% contracted projects. I am saying all of this because we are one of the youngest countries that is the European Union and certainly may not have prepared well enough for, to withdraw these funds, but when you look at some countries that have previously entered the European Union, which is Slovenia, and Cyprus, and the Czech Republic, and Romania behind us, then it tells us that they are still being implemented and, and are doing great efforts to educate and achieve as much as possible, and in fact, economic development, way, make it as high quality and make use of these funds as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130138	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. Next debate, respected counterpart Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130139	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We are a country without a strategy, a country without a three-way and efficient, inefficient public governance system, a country that is falling from mandate to mandate and a state that has not learned lessons from the programming period in Part-2013, from this period should not even be spoken, because it is a minority almost behind us, because today it is 2102/2019, and in the Parliamentary debate we are talking about the European Report, the withdrawal of the European Funds, the funds from 31 June 2017. I am more like a young man who plans to stay alive, work in Croatia, plans or concerns me from 2021 to 2027, we don't have a Draft, we don't even know what we should report, what we should apply, which projects we should prepare. I come from Dalmatia, from Dalmatinska Zagor, and this year in the Parliament listen's traffic projects of connecting, as I said in one replica, from the connective road Knin, Drniš, Imotski, Sinj highways, highways, highways, highways A1, ferry ports Drvenik, but we have no traffic master plans of County, at regional levels, we hit traffic projects such as which option fits, some shares are projected without any justification, some future project projections are presented in the public, which do not even have a location permit, and are announced that they will start in 20 months, but are announced that they will be funded from the future programming envelope, and that we do not have that in Croatia's development strategy for the future period. Now, this is done in Croatia today, and then we actually wonder why we have such an inefficient system of withdrawal of European funds. Inefficient. When we look at our economic growth in Croatia, when we look at other countries' economic growth in transition, they have doubled economic growth compared to us. Instead of helping the rural area of Croatia through the programme, we speed up the assignment, we speed up the evaluation, everything else, ten times faster emigrates the population from the rural area than it is approved, I say approved, without talking about applying and calling competitions, the projects are being implemented. And you will get one paradox, that a software package lasts you four, five years from designing, issuing permits, to tendering, approval, realization of software post controls, and for the same period, four to five generations of the young population in the rural area of Croatia will lose. And when such a public infrastructure is created, it will be highly questionable to maintain that same infrastructure. And also, we all rely on European funds in regional development policy, and it is not clear to me that as a state, we can't be more committed to our rural space and make our own national programme, secure it in the state budget a billion, two billion kuna, and we see that money has, there is money for planes, there is money for whatever things that are good to rich countries, and we are currently in a situation that literally needs to preserve the rural space of Croatia over 75% of the surface, where people are mass evicting. And then we say that we are successful at withdrawing European funds. Not that we're not successful, but we have devastating results, when we see how much they verify, how much of the total contracted funds are paid, not in 6%, confirmed by 2.82%. I really can't understand, I can't understand, what individual employees, officials under the rank of state secretary because you can't control, evaluate the processes. What's our government doing? I'm telling the whole state administration, the public legal authorities, from the very beginning, meaning from those conditions and confirmations to the main projects to the outcome of building permits, to the application without talking about evaluation. There is a situation where we local leaders have to call individual public services, beg them to provide us with certain documents outside the legal deadline, or we, our own funds to pay the contractor legally in accordance with the contract, give our resources to seek and receive those funds back in 6, 7, 8 months, although there are clearly deadlines that units of local self-government sign with non-refundable contractors. It all chokes the liquidity of small environments and actually raises the question of even reporting future projects. I'm telling you, there may be a situation, and I think it's a good thing that it went into the form of a demographic renewal of grants for the construction of kindergartens, but now there's a paradox that individual individuals of local self-government who got the funds and will now start building that they won't have strong enough fiscal capacity to hire employees in that same kindergarten at all. It's these strategic mistakes that happen when you don't have a strategy, when you don't know what you want, the easiest thing to do is to allocate funds, sign contracts with 10, 15 or 100 cities, assign, but the biggest one then becomes business, work construction, business evaluation, return of funds, and not talk about the problem we're having a little talk about, and that's a possible return of funds in control of certain procedures. You have a situation that you have shared certain funds from IPARD, economic areas that have been built neatly, units of local self-government have been able to obtain funds. And what's going on? It happens that those indicators they set in their methodologies are not justified, there are no investors or certain parts are not built. All of this will cause funds to be recovered that have already been secured, which we currently do not know how much they are. But I say from the beginning of my debate it's all one result of a verse, a verse that will certainly happen in the period 2021, 2027. We see from the announcement that we will have about 9 billion euros at our disposal. You tell me in which program niche, in which axis of the program should we say we are already preparing through local budgets with our local projects. There is a situation to come up with an indicative list of competitions, and this same competition is being launched 5 days before the launch in 7.8 months. You don't even know how you're going to propose a draft budget anymore, and so on. And these are the real problems that we all face, the cities, the municipalities, and all of this affects the population of our citizens we meet daily and I think we'll meet until 2027. We have said that the EU will bring us good, it may have brought in terms of security, but when you sum up how many people leave Croatia, it goes much more than we have become a full member, when you look at our economic growth, it is not as far as it was supposed to be, but we are lagging behind competitive countries in transition. And instead of learning from the 2007-2013 period. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. that we have directed ourselves into the future programming period until 2027 we see in fact that this is one sequel to the verse, one continuation of a wandering that absolutely will not bring anything new. This Parliament will surely be here beyond 2027. I would like reports like this to be better for future parliamentary representatives on the table. But when I know how this period went, these past two periods, I don't think it's gonna happen like that. We haven't reformed the public administration, our public administration with capacities isn't ready for implementation and evaluation, we haven't reformed property legal relations as we should have, we have an absolutely unsettled and catastrian state and in the garter state, unreformed public administration, and all of this is causing our inefficientness and drag... The funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130140	I thank my colleague Pranic. We have a replica, a respected colleague of Love Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130141	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow, you were just talking about traffic development in this debate and master plans, so I'm going to look around, just my county signed one in 2015, actually entered the project of sustainable development of the transport system. But with 966 thousand kuna that was in that plan at the time, you can't do anything. After that we went into master's plan with 5 Slavonian counties, of course he fell on the state commission, that tender was cancelled. And to do something, you can't mean not to make electronic modeled traffic because if you didn't do it, then you didn't do anything. So here's actually not exactly that it wasn't working, and all the county's been trying, checking in, but here's always, as you can see, stuck somewhere. But as I said in 2015, one of them was signed with 966 thousand kunas where you couldn't run for almost nothing and it's in vain and you're doing something if you don't have a good background you can't even run.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130142	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Maximichuk. The answer of my colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130143	The problem is that, in certain master plans, politics is not held by expert opinions and we are not at EU level, our euro-parliamentaries cannot position Croatia which should take on significantly more important transport European corridors. You have no fact, i.e. you have a fact that no Europarliamentary talks about the Adriatic Ionian Corridor of the shortest transport link between Central Europe and Asia, which and how it should go through our Dalmatians that should increase the efficiency of traffic for, it would pull economical positive guidelines, but that's what is thought about designing it, now look at we have the Pelješki bridge, pinning for those roads that should be access to the Pelješa Bridge, which after that, whether we have building permits to Dubrovnik, we don't have, so what we've been doing for 25 years. What are we gonna do about it? apply to the future programming period for 2027 [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Incomprehensible/... in response./... with nothing. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130144	Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130145	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am often represented by conspiracy theorists, but what I am about to say is not from David Icke but from Branko Greeks from the SDP, he said that the use of EU funds by Croatia is only 15%, he is aware of what it means. Why am I saying that? Because we are constantly told that the EU has made a little more than €10 billion available to us through the European Funds so far, and when they keep waving, we have given Croatia €10 billion, Croatia has had €10 billion and they do not say what Mr Branko Grcic says, which is that the total amount of money we have actually received is only 15% of that amount, which will translate into a billion-and-a-half euro. But at the same time, every year from EU membership, we give EUR 550 million of membership fees, and now I'm asking you. When you place on the one hand the amount we give for membership and on the other hand the amount we have given or received through these funds is clear to you from the plane that we are with the EU in the net minus. On the other hand, you have the following problem, which is that the banks, or creditors from the EU and the United States, whose other money is our country, I have referred the parliamentary question exactly who these creditors are, which we give them at the annual level, we know that the total amount we pay off is about 35 billion kuna or more per year. So we have EUR 5 billion per year on foreign debt, and we still give EUR 550 million for EU membership, and in return we got what I said about the use of the funds 15% of the EUR 10 billion, we got a billion and a half. And as much as we've given the West through these years, an enormous amount and imagine if we were to pay off the foreign debt or the EU membership fee, why couldn't we build our own Pelješki bridge, why first we have to give Brussels, say 4 and some 4 billion kunas each year then pray give us you Pelješki bridge, give us you Pelješki bridge, why can't we build it out of our own money? Because there's a certain group of politicians who are not able to do the things they want, they have to pray, they have to kneel, they have to do the best of someone else, because they don't have the character themselves, they don't have the power, they don't have the intelligence, they don't have the will. And this one cowardice faceless policy has led to the fact that as long as foreign creditors are rich on us, every year they get billions on our continent that the minimum salary is 3,000 kuna, that people don't want to work and that people move out. And with all these amounts that I have cited add more amounts that foreign banks have drawn from our country, you know and put on the leading Croatian banks yourself, profit at the annual level again a few billion kunas go out, west. And I'm going to say one more thing, and this thing is very, very dangerous and very important to all of us here. The RBA cooperatives from Austria who perform the properties of our citizens worked without the permission of the CNB, did not pay taxes in Croatia, and the law that recently protected those perpetrators who were in some way, in fact not in any way, but literally executed by these cooperatives, this law on the integrity of these credit agreements is also now put out of the European Court of Justice. So the EU treats us like 13 pigs, and the EU will get rid of my people, the EU not only has ruined us, or those citizens who can't repay those loans to those cooperatives, they will fly out of their houses. Gentlemen of the HDZ, you are aware of what it means to be decommissioned or you from the SDP, will be left with no real estate. It's an EU gift, you promised them honey and milk, and what will it get? You'll send them the intervention police, and then when I raise my voice against it, then you'll say Pernar the populist, the Pernar the populist. And what do you do, ask yourself about that policy of yours. I remember when the government was inaugurally in 2016, it was also some kind of an act in progress in the Holy Spirit 8, I remember the address of the same RBA. Please, God's people, so give us some, put some brains in your head, open your eyes and see that they treat us like the last trash. So look at the example of the INE Privatisation Act, are you aware that Brussels dictates to us what our law will be, are you aware that Brussels is asking us to de facto give up control of INA? Are you aware that they're asking us to privatize it faster? And not just the INA. The troika, the IMF, the World Bank, the EU. They want us to privatize the highways, they want us to privatize HEP. It will no longer be possible to prevent even privatising utility companies, now the EU Commission has the power that if some local self-government does not want to sell waste, privatise or supply water, and the EU commission can block that decision from local self-government. And it is clear as a day that a growing number of people live in Croatia, and that the debt we are burdened with is increasing, that this tax press, that terror will be growing year after year, day after day. And it is not far from the day when creditors will be increasingly cruel in front of our people and when the evictions will become the emigration of the Croatian daily. We in the Living Wall warn of that scenario. We appeal to everyone else to see what's going on, to see what's going on. But like that Bible story, many MPs, politicians, have eyes, and they can't see. They have ears, and they can't hear. I can shout here until the day of judgment, I can repeat a figure of 35 billion kuna or 5 billion euros that we pay off on an external debt a year, that we give another 4 billion kuna for membership fees, that annually, that 40 billion kuna directly gives to those Western imperialists, and then they come and tell us, here, so you see how good we are to you, as so we will give you one Peljeski bridge. Oh, yeah? And we gave you two billion kuna worth of that Peljek Bridge, and you took it from us, i.e. We gave you 40 billion kuna on an annual basis. So we give you 20 Peljek Bridges, you give us one, and then this Peljek Bridge Quisling government, the Servian Government, the puppet government, represents some kind of success and a crown of some kind of work. Like us, we've withdrawn 2 billion kunas, and when they pay each month a tranche to foreign creditors in billions, they don't boast, well, today we've given 5 billion or 2 billion or a billion to foreign lenders. Then they shut up about it. When they give four billion kunas a year, they don't see the same thing, I didn't notice in the paper that they boast and say, hey, we paid again I don't know how many hundreds of millions of kunas on the altar of Brussels. Why are you making a fool of Croatian citizens? How long do you think you're gonna do that? It's a question that's being asked, but it's said that every lie has a term of duration, so this fairy tale about the EU, which is slowly turning into a nightmare, will become increasingly exposed to many citizens and I know that the people will be propped, that they will rise up against this system and that its time leaks, ticks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130146	I thank my colleague Pernar. Replica esteemed colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130147	He's a colleague of Pernar's. And who's building the Peles Bridge? They're building Chinese. I don't have anything against the Chinese who won on the public supply of the Peleski Bridge. And where are Croatian companies building? They couldn't even answer it. And why couldn't they have called? Well, because they're all ruined. All major Croatian construction firms failed, and the same companies worked 20 and 30 years ago, Europe's most important infrastructure projects. And this policy of Croatia has destroyed Croatian construction firms. Best Croatian engineers, the best Croatian workers are in Europe today. So, we don't have on public calls literally, you have to ask certain companies to even send you an offer, our construction sector is destroyed. Destroyed by the system when the highway was built. When they pulled out the money, when they were afraid of tunnels two or three times and so on. That's what we got today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130148	I thank my colleague Pranic. My colleague Pernar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130149	Ha, colleague Pranic, that they boast, we got two billion kunas, but they didn't say those two billion kunas would go to the Chinese. That's not what they said. They didn't say where the steel was going to be invested in that bridge. They didn't say that workers from China, India, Nepal, who knows where they come from to build that bridge. That Croatian workers won't work for him, they didn't say that. And you know why, Mr. Pranic? Because it's not in the interest of this system to reveal the truth. Because it is not in their best interests that the people have a sense of how they do business and work. And in the end, I'm explaining it one more time. Croatia has no benefit from the EU, but the EU and these foreign banks have a great benefit from us. And that will soon be understood by our citizens when the RBA cooperatives decommissioned them from Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130150	Thank you for your response. Next debate, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As I spoke on behalf of the club, I mentioned in the debate the importance of strengthening the capacity to withdraw EU funds, primarily in two key sectors, which are public administrations and local self-government, i.e. regional self-government, i.e. municipalities, cities and counties. Today's situation with the capacity of the two sectors, for the absorption of EU funds, is extremely low, both in the financial and human parts. You could even say that that human part of kudikamo is even more sub-capacitated because in the last two years, the budgets of the local self-government unit have been little, the little one has risen and this growth is going to last there somewhere since 2021. The government took the wrong path to strengthening capacity, primarily regional self-government, and this new Regional Development Act where it decided that the county development agencies that were first public institutions, so they became stakeholders, will now become public institutions again, there is so-called. Regional coordinators play a very important role in creating project ideas and writing competitions for EU projects. What the Government considers to be a strengthening capacity, and thus speeding up implementation and a greater number of quality sustainable projects, I am convinced that it is a step back and that, apart from party employment and the accumulation of orthodox bureaucracy, this decision will not contribute to anything else. I will tell you one of the first practical examples from my county, following the county elections, the new HDZ mayor has replaced the old HDZ mayor, made it politically clean in a variety of agencies so that in the last two years, the very county of Karlovac, along with Split-Dalmatia, would be the worst county in withdrawing EU funds. So, a classic example of this, that the Regional Development Act that raises regional coordinators to piestal, to a pyestal agency that is crucial to the absorption of EU funds is not, not good, not good law. In addition to this problem, the problem is also quality sustainable projects that are the product of thought-out strategies. Unfortunately, most rural development projects, I am afraid, above all, are the ad hoc thinking and visions of local politicians, rather than the serious sustainable projects behind which strategic thinking is behind them, and these are especially projects of measure 74. It is a very commendable and quality demographic measure, something was said by Mr. Col. Pranic, a kindergarten. However, most of these projects were done without some piece of benefit analysis, let's say it was probably not looked at what the number of children was, it wasn't looking at the fiscal capacity of local self-government, whether after building these kindergartens would be sufficient for the number of children, whether local self-government units would have enough money to maintain a cold drive, unfortunately, it won't, unfortunately, and I'm afraid that after 2021. a large number of objects such as kindergartens, famous firehouses, famous cultural homes, famous lighting, buttocks, etc., that they will not have anyone to maintain because units of local self-government unless we do, therefore, and territorial changes on that plan simply will not have the power to maintain that infrastructure which they have so far, which they have managed to build through these funds. Finally, I would refer to capacities at national level, including this High House, if we were to conduct a survey in this HS today to ask, therefore, our parliamentary representatives, which is the European Commission, which is the European Parliament, which is the European Council, which is their role, I am afraid, unfortunately, that there would be very few MPs who would know the correct answers to these questions and who would actually know how the EU works or what it is, a multi-annual financial framework. It's a lot easier to come up with, therefore, some kind of unverified fact or nonsense and such a euro of skeptical nonsense will be increasingly because we're to blame. One of the reasons why this nonsense is so media-represented is that we are unsuccessful in withdrawing EU funds, that we are better at it and that people, therefore, see more of those blue flags on which it says "co-financed by EU funds", believe me, so believe me, that the people of the EU would see it as something more positive. And what we have now, so we have a situation where we have fewer employees, we are harder to cross borders, at the border with Slovenia you have a wall of two metres of barbed wire, on the border with Hungary you have a wall of two metres of barbed wire, when you cross into the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia you need to wait in the season to enter another EU country. So I realize that we're not in Schengen yet, but I can't explain it to my citizens who are expecting it today. And finally, I'm going to conclude, as our country has been capacitated from the bottom or bottom down, that's how successful we are with the withdrawal of EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130152	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Matjana. We have two replicas, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130153	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Matteljan, you seem to have described this particular situation very well regarding the construction of kindergartens now. It seems to me that, in fact, this government doesn't really solve specific problems, the problems that we are currently having, but it seems to be, now it's simple, it's actual or maybe nice, we're going to build kindergartens and it's actually going to be kindergartens where maybe there are two kids, so, in municipalities or some, so, places where there really aren't kids and you mentioned yourself that it's really questionable whether and how these kindergartens are going to be held later. But it's not exactly those problems that are in those places, for example. The problems of older people instead, therefore, are not solved by people for or about a hundred, say 50 or 100 households where indeed older people have no help and who without that help are really very hard to survive at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130154	I thank my colleague Maria. Answer, fellow Mateo, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130155	Thank you very much. Well, yes, as I said the reason is that, therefore, these projects are not a fruit of strategic thinking, until there is such a government that will have the courage to enter into the strategic reform of local self-government involving territorial reconstruction, such things will happen. I am unfortunately convinced, looking and walking among people and amongst, visiting many places in this country that, therefore, this infrastructure, this famous measure 74 will leave us with a whole series of space that will eventually have no one to pay for heating, will have no one to pay for directing, let alone aunts in those kindergartens, and unfortunately this measure will demographically bounce into our heads instead of being demographically positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130156	I would like to thank my colleague Matjana. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matteljan, you're a serious advocate and you know the problem you're talking about, so I'm having a hard time understanding your debate. You know very well that in 2014, 2015, 2016, the expenditure of the state budget to obtain non-financial assets that have collapsed, that investments have been less and less every day, that it was simply not possible to enter any serious investment. That investments were less and less every day, that it was simply impossible to enter into any serious investment, that anything that was invested more seriously in Croatia had long been invested by borrowing from international financial institutions. Today, Croatia is investing more significantly in the infrastructure of any nature, whether it is a communal, social, transport, capital infrastructure to finance these funds. It should be better, I agree, but we have four years left for the remaining 30% and I'm sure they'll charge for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130158	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bačić, for his response to Matteljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130159	Well, colleague Bačić, well, I don't know what I don't agree with, which is exactly what I said, so yes, we've invested money from EU funds in infrastructure, but that's what we've been doing... Without a strategy, so without strategic thinking, unfortunately we are, at local level, at regional level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I know a whole series of local self-government units that only went into these projects and they literally planned that project to happen when they were local elections. It happens always, yes, unfortunately that's how it is, unfortunately it is. These things are funny to me too, and these things are inexplicable to me, but they happen. And the government and the ministry sometimes lets it happen because it's that way and it's so much simpler. You don't do cost-benefit analysis where you should be doing it. And much, much more strategically, we need to think about both at national and local level. And the reform of local self-government, of course, is already late.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130160	I would like to thank my colleague Matjana for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130161	The report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2017 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, a report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2017 is adopted. I find that the majority of votes 86 for, 10 abstentions and 3 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130162	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2017; The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 38. The island law. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. I call on the representative of the representative of the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, Mr Velimir Zunc, to give us an additional explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130163	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Law on Islands The Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to report to the Croatian Parliament on the effects of the implementation of the same law. It is the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds that provides the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands based on data obtained from all bodies from the state, regional and local level. This report shows how the Law on Islands and its effects, as well as the investment and engagement of all public sector bodies in the development of the island and Peljesac peninsula, was implemented precisely in 2017, i.e. the investment of all bodies, central authorities of the state administration, local and regional regional self-government and state-owned legal entities. In 2017, the state and public sectors invested a billion 699 million, 241 thousand 508 kuna and 27 June, i.e. almost 1.7 billion budgets, of which the grants are over a billion and 435 million and in the form of loans of nearly 264 million kuna. Out of the total amount of funds invested, over 251 million kuna relates to funding implemented through EU funds. When we talk about these investments, they were focused on the island's transport connection with land and island, transport infrastructure, municipal infrastructure, environmental protection, energy efficiency, economy and support in the economy, tourism, energy, electronic communications infrastructure, as well as other related equipment, culture, education, health care, social care, investment through income-return funds to island units of local self-government and other investments. Therefore, the report itself shows that the public sector was primarily focused on improving the economy and supporting the economy and the transport link between the island and land and the island and transport infrastructure. About a billion and 200 million kunas were invested for these purposes in 2017. The largest investments in 2017 relate to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure totalling 381.2 million kuna and most of all to the promotion of regular maritime, passenger and high-speed lines in public coastal maritime transport and to co-financing of the bridge of Krk. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds in the Islands in 2017 invested a total of 181,68 million kuna and the largest part of the investment made by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds concerns investment by the Board of Islands in capital and small infrastructure projects of € 58.6 million, and measures aimed at equating the quality of life on islands with those on land, which are the following. Therefore, subsidisation of public island road transport for which the Ministry allocated 32.9 million kuna in 2017, subsidisation of water prices in island households, for which in 2017 the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds totalled 14.3 million and support for small value island employers to preserve jobs on islands for which 9 million kuna was allocated by the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. It is obvious, therefore, that the creation of this Report on the effects of the Law on Islands from year to year proves its justification because, indeed, in one place, all investments by all the authorities of the State Administration and local and regional self-government are systematically worked out in the islands. Also this Report opens up opportunities for new island development models, instruments, measures and investments, which will likely be further contributed by the new Law on Islands adopted by the Croatian Parliament at the end of last year. Therefore, the implementation of a defined and clear island policy remains an important objective in the coming period. Strengthening capacity for the use of European Structural Investment Funds is also a priority because it is imposed as a potentially large and important source of funding for projects and programmes implemented on Croatian islands. So much for us in the opening statement, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130164	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Excuse me, we have one replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130165	Thank you, Vice President. Any law, and this one can be the best. But what it's worth is if our islanders, our citizens from the island of Capri and Žirje, it doesn't really mean anything, if they can't actually get to their place, to the island, precisely because a concessionary can't secure safe and regular transportation, and that's what's happening right now. We see this very well, today they have been protesting, these days there are many questions, therefore this support, which is being granted through this law, which is the purpose of paying off this support, that connecting the island with the mainland, the island to each other with the aim of improving the conditions of life on the island, on islands and increasing the competitiveness of the island's economy and sustainable development, is actually very questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130166	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. I'm opening a debate, on behalf of Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Miro Bulj, is not present. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, co-workers and colleagues. As every year, I believe that this year's report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands will pass in the Croatian Parliament unanimously or almost unanimously and that the SDP Club will also contribute, so we will support the adoption of this report, with a few things that I think should be highlighted when it comes to the 2017 report which will unfortunately be slightly different from that for 2018. Even when we accepted the 2016 report, we suggested that the Croatian Parliament voiced concern over the change in the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit, in which units of local self-government unlike other local self-government units, which received some units of local self-government on the islands, lost about 37 million kuna, which seems to me to be mentioned in the report of the funds, which speaks of the part that speaks about the Croatian Bank's funds for reconstruction and development. The second thing I would like to stress is, therefore, I welcome the fact that it is within the scope of the Ministry of Interior, and every time we remember that we would somehow prefer there to be a Ministry of Maritime Affairs, rather than a Ministry of Regional Development, but it doesn't matter, that an island administration is established, it itself doesn't have to be anything revolutionary but it can be good, so once again it needs to be welcomed. I would also like to express my hope that the necessary sublegal acts, which are provided for by the new Law on Islands, will be adopted as soon and fully as possible, in order to properly valorise what has been passed by the new Law on Islands and would also like to ask the competent committees, to put them on the debate and on the bill, amendments, or, in addition, to the law on coastal, liner and maritime transport, which I have proposed to allow a certain group of children to be transported free of charge, as well as their escorts and vehicles, are specifically meant by children with developmental difficulties. Therefore, wanting to express their belief that the competent ministers will adopt rules that will fully operationalise the new island law as soon as possible, thus achieving the effects they wish for with it, the SDP Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130168	I thank my esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected counterpart Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130169	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the GLAS and HSU Club will support this report, but we would like to comment a little on some of the indicators, despite the fact that the indicators, which is, respectively, the statistics we received from 2017 and despite what we have changed, have changed the Island Act, so probably some future reports will be slightly different by the basis of this law. What has always bothered me in some way, in this report, is that the report is called the Impact Report. And in the report, if you take a good look at it, half of that report includes lists of money flows, transfers of funds by some held bodies from local self-government units or institutions working on or operating on islands or in charge of implementing certain programmes on islands. And very little or almost nothing actually deals with this analysis, or just because it says it's called just a report, it's the effects of all the transfers, and that's what I don't think is good. It is not good, because despite the fact that we know where and what is invested on the islands, we believe that it is a good job and that it has kept it, I would say life on islands and at all activities on islands and the development of tourism on islands and everything else we associate with, we bind the islands as a concept, and they are very important to the Republic, we have many, we are all especially proud, we look forward to using them as a resource, and as a means, an economic resource, primarily in tourism, but it is important that these islands live in an appropriate way, or that people living on islands live in an appropriate manner, or at least in the way that people live on land as citizens of the Republic. It means that they have a certain equality of chances regardless of the circumstances in which people on the islands live are more difficult and different than for all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. So, the data that has actually been in these since 1999. I would warn a little here, but I am deeply convinced that every kuna that has gone into investment on islands from infrastructure to culture, schools, kindergartens and everything that has kept life on the islands and in some way maintained the demographic stability of the island, we see that the islands have kept, on average, the number of residents they had from the last or the last census. However, what I started to say, which is the effect, I think, is that we have reached a certain standard and that we should access one more careful analysis of how to further invest in the islands, and that we have a better fit beck, or that these money that is being invested is still coming back multiplely, not only through material indicators, but also through other qualitative indicators, which is that we have as many young people on the islands as possible, that the islands are employed, that economic activities develop, that agriculture develops, except tourism, that tourism is not monoculture on islands, that people are allowed to do all year round in certain jobs. It is not quite simple because it is a relatively small number of people in a large space, narrowed down to more, of course, we are a country with many, many islands, it is not easy, but it is certainly important that life as such there, survived there, is mostly related to tourism, meaning, in most of our local self-government on islands is multiplely increasing the number of people present in the small area during the tourist season, it is necessary to provide a large and expensive infrastructure, starting with water, draining, transporting, transporting tourists, meaning, from land to islands and vice versa, and a whole series of other facilities needed to be able to carry out the activity of tourism that are very, very expensive, therefore, also resulting in these data on very large resources that the state and its institutions help the islands to keep that standard. What we seem to have done for a lot of good all these nearly 20 years through law enforcement has been done and that we have kept the islands in some balance with the standard or at least we have tried to do so in such a balance compared to the rest of the Republic, or to all those who live on land, and that should continue to do so because, despite all their advantages, the islands will not be able to produce, in themselves and themselves, excess values which they could continuously retain if they did not secure it from the higher-ranking budget, whether these are the counties, today the region or the national budget. I would just say two things that I think, which I don't particularly think is said in this report, and I think it's very important to the islanders, at least I know about the part where I come from, and that's the North Adriatic, so one problem on the islands that, no one here can explain to me why we didn't have enough power to solve it, and that's the problem of not the native and allohton savages on the islands. So, to all these billions that we spent in a long series of years and swore to the island, the possibility of developing an island economy, first of all, agriculture, livestock farming, first of all, sheep farming, means we didn't have the strength of those people who grow sheep, and also those who have vineyards because unfortunately that alochton game does not do harm only on sheep, but also on agricultural crops, that we failed to isolate that game in some way, that we failed to establish some balance that would at least be satisfactory. For years we've been talking about it, for years it's been pulling a rope between the two sides, on the one hand, it's the ones who are in charge of this usually, not usually but are the counties in charge of hunting economic bases that are being brought into a particular area for certain hunting grounds, and then the tenants of these areas have to maintain the balance of animals, wild animals that are in that area, but in reality it's not going to happen in a satisfactory way and a lot of our farmers, or a lot of our farmers on the islands have this big problem that they can't do in any way, in a way that this savage is finally not going to live on the island, and let's do this in some law because it keeps going on, there are always the challenges between hunters who are, who are in charge of both hunting societies and national and local and local as regards to local self-government in relation to local self-government and regional self-government to solve this problem. Those who deal with the island’s economy suffer in this tension. So I think that in such reports there should be a place or that a particular body should be entrusted to probably the Ministry of Agriculture, or perhaps even a re-established island administration to finally solve this problem. This problem is not only the problem of the island, but this is the only problem that there are unfortunately such problems in Slavonia, or great damages from that not-original game on agricultural crops, and in this case here and on cattle grown in one traditional way in the islands and in which we are all very proud, but we do not do enough to protect it, or first of all, to protect the producers. And the other thing that health care related to tourism has not been adequately addressed is the issue of emergency medical assistance on islands or the introduction of helicopter emergency assistance, all of these ideas and proposals have been elaborated several times, but it is also the day that the emergency helicopter service is performed by the military and military helicopters that are absolutely not suitable and are not adequate they exist, fortunately we have them and should help them at the time when it is most necessary and should be thanked for it, but these are not adequate helicopters for providing such assistance and in Croatia, which is the tourist country should establish this service at a minimum of 4 central locations in Croatia. Without such certainty, without such a possibility that in some situation that happens, unforeseen life-threatening situations, that we as a tourist country are unable to react without spotting with helicopter health care, I think it's something that belongs to this island's problem, or perhaps above all in the island's problem, because we can only imagine some tourist on some beach. I'll talk about places where in my county, so let's say in Lopar or Baška, where at one point more than 10,000 people are around a beach and when something happens on a beach like that. So you can't even imagine this doctor who has to intervene at this point, who has to put a patient in the ambulance and lead to the first center where adequate emergency care can be provided. So helicopters, along with ships capable of transporting such patients, that's necessary for our tourism, I'm surprised we didn't have any bigger problems and bigger anti-ads that could have happened because we didn't do it. Here, I won't anymore, you could talk a lot about this, 20 here is obvious that I'm not enough these minutes 15 as many as I have, but in any case, we think that the effects of these investments have been good so far and should continue to encourage them, but that they should also be adequately evaluated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130170	Thank you, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, now will speak the esteemed representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130171	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President, dear state secretary, respected ministerial assistants, respected colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Representatives' Club supports the 2017 report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act. What I would like to say at the beginning that we at the HDZ Representatives Club particularly support the fact that this government has re-organised or re-organized a private administration in the system of state administration precisely for the islands which represent the specific establishment of the island units of local self-government in Zagreb because in this place, all those requirements, proposals, suggestions, suggestions, suggestions, islanders, and thus implements island policies towards Croatian islands, according to the islanders. The second thing I'd like to point out in the opening is the fact that it's after 20 years. At the end of last year, HS adopted a new Law on Islands which came into force and which legislation had to be passed in view of the fact that until then, the law adopted in 1999 was in force. based on the national programme of sustainable development of Croatian islands from 1997. and that in large part he was, in large consumption and those problems, the demands of the islanders who, and dating back to the early 1990s, were no longer at that level because much of these problems with the law that came into force in 99 years. In fact, it has been consumed, or solved, by the majority of those needs for life in the Croatian islands. The new law we passed last year took over all those subsidies, support, solutions from the 1999 law, but it went one step forward and certainly was updated in view of the fact that the Republic of Croatia, meanwhile, became an EU member, and then it was necessary to do so, I would say, more sophisticated measures that are in line with the EU acquis. But what is important to say is that those basic support and subsidies that we have dealt with by law in 1999, which relate to the promotion of maritime transport, road transport, the incentives of island employers, the subsidies in water supply, the introduction of hops and the promotion of the economy, the fact that we founded an island council as one representative body of the island and the state government, the state administration could best listen to the needs of the islanders through its work and, in a certain way, through numerous sublaws that came after 1999. when the law was passed, to implement all the things that the islanders had proposed during that time so that the island law itself could be better implemented. The new Law on Islands brings several important changes, good ones, and would particularly highlight the national plan for the development of Croatian islands, which the government should bring by the end of next year and I call on, here, and the representatives of the ministry to include, in the adoption and the specific strategy that has been adopted over 7 years, the units of local self-government and islanded in full so that this national programme could indeed be not only at the level of the one from 1997, but which should still be made a new step. Another important thing to bring, in addition to this national island development programme, is the development plan that the island brings to the entire unit, for all units of local self-government on the island, which is also good because it clearly leads to one agreement, an inter-island agreement that accepts these solutions, and now that the new annual programme that the minister would adopt, and which should already presuppose in advance all those projects that are located, which are important for the life of the island, and which could, unlike now, be possible if, after the adoption of the budget, practically the island units of local self-government deliver their proposals, could be presupposed by this island's annual programme in advance, and likely, it would be easier to implement projects that would not be so much related to the fiscal capacity of the island administration and other ministries, we could already assume in advance what and how to finance in the Croatian islands. What this report specifically sets out is the fact that with a billion and 700 million kuna allocated to islands through grants, about a billion and 450 million and 250 million credits with stimulating interest, subsidized interest by HABOR. According to the head of the island’s inhabitants, or one island, some 13,000 kn per year stands out for these measures. So that's one amount that's been going on for many years, it seems to me since 2004, 2003 or 2004. established at the level of the Republic of Croatia and which, with fewer deviations, is, as a rule, adopted at that level each year. This fact that we invest about a billion and 800, 700, 800 million annually in Croatian islands should be put to the end to this and say that we have solved very large projects of transport, municipal, social infrastructure on Croatian islands, from the construction of numerous ports and ports, both those on the islands and those in the function of transporting the island, which is located on the land side, numerous investments in the restoration of the Adriatic fleet, as well as other shipowners carrying out maritime traffic, then the construction of numerous water supply systems, draining, kindergartens, homes of health, schools, halls, firehouses, homes of pensioners, etc. etc. So, in these 20 years, how much of the Island Act has indeed been done, we have realised large and significant projects on Croatian islands. When mentioning the fact that 13,000 kn is allocated from the state budget annually to one Croatian island resident, it may sound a lot at first glance, but the fact is that somewhere around 25% of all tourism traffic is taking place on Croatian islands, of 106 million tourists, as many as last year's 20 million tourists were about 4 million, more than 4 million tourists were on islands and around, over 20 million overnights happened on Croatian islands, and knowing that tourism is about 20% of GDP, then it can be seen what is the practical contribution of these 1444 Croatian pearls and 50 inhabited islands in the overall economic development of the Republic, and that fact in a certain way requires that the infrastructure on the islands does not adapt to the life of 130 000 islands rather than to the fact that these 50 inhabited islands, practically know more than 4,5 times more than in the blue period. For God's sake, it is necessary to build a infrastructure that not only provides life for islanders but also ensures that tourists can have all those requirements for infrastructure during the season, I say, any traffic, social, any communal, any economic infrastructure on Croatian islands, and for this reason this investment in Croatian islands, which is about a billion and 700 million kuna, is absolutely justified. The second thing, I would like to say, I am sorry that there are no colleagues in Bauk, he left, in the name of the club of the SDP who proposed that the Croatian island unit of local self-government should be corrected in a way that because of the fact that a new law on the financing of local self-government units has been passed and that a redistribution of income tax was made to local self-government units has been damaged by the island units of local self-government for 37 million kuna, I do not know where that data from colleague Bauku if we are, which is the data of the Ministry of Finance, so in 2017 the basis of the tax on the income of the island unit of local self-government as their income from the income tax base of income has been income from 180 million kuna and in the year for which my colleague Bauk says that it should be compensated to local self-government units, 37 million kuna growth was the income tax base of the local income, I think of the local government. So, not that there is less than 37 to compensate for but is an excess of 33 compared to 2017, and not all units of local self-government have increased equally, there are those that grew to 80% compared to 2017, there are some that are slightly below 2017. the compensation fund so that no units of local self-government in the Croatian islands in 2018 did not receive a drop of less funds based on income tax compared to 2017. I have here even a list of units of local self-government on Croatian islands, 50 of which it is seen that some units of local self-government even 90% higher, 99%, 100% income tax-based income from 2017. Therefore, this fiscal decentralisation which was made by the Law on the financing of local self-government units otherwise to tax reforms has contributed to all units of local self-government and has not damaged the unit of local self-government on islands which before this tax reform already had a large part, a large share in income tax, however, this fear that this new tax reform would damage local self-government units is available to the Ministry of Finance. What I didn't mention when I spoke about the Island Act earlier is also an important fact that given the new waste management policy in the Republic of Croatia, we will provide units of local self-government with additional subsidies from the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency. In fact, we need to be aware of the fact that if we want ecologically clean islands, that waste is then no place on Croatian islands, but that fact on the other hand, and given the price of shipping or maritime transport where the trucks that take biodegradable waste from the island is indeed a major item in the financing of municipal companies or units of local self-government, the new Law on Islands will allow municipal enterprises or local self-government units to subsidise that transport from the island, which is a very, very important item in a number of local self-government units, especially when I know, I said that it is not an island in 4 or 5 months. tourist seasons only those domestic island residents but also many tourists, this is an enormous amount during the summer period, which would almost prevent normal economic behaviour and behaviour and the work of municipal companies, and thus the new Law on Islands has reached and this will be co-financed by the Environmental Protection Fund. So we at the club of representatives will support this report by repeating once again that the first important real project, the strategic project is the development of the National Plan for the Development of Croatian Islands. This national plan, which will be a kind of strategy of life on the islands for the next 7 years, should indeed be determined according to all aspects of the economy. I think that through a number of investments we have solved the most important infrastructure points, whether by sea, and by thinking about ports, whether they are transportable, by thinking about roads and other infrastructure, it is now time to find ways in the new frameworks defined by European policy, to find ways to encourage the legal financing of the economy that is indigenous, traditionally on Croatian islands and that would help create new jobs. In that sense, we will actively engage in the adoption of this National Plan for the Development of Croatian Islands, we will certainly support this Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130172	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130173	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here, today when I talk about the implementation of the impact of the Island Act for 2017, a lot of things could be said and talked about because really life on the island is difficult and has a lot of problems with those in transport, from organising health care, preschool education, food prices, construction works, postal services, waste transportation, etc., but I would just put a few, in a couple of things, accentuate. So here in the first row of 2017 we say that the islands were invested about a billion, 1.7 billion kuna, which is the amount often spoken of by colleagues who do not have much contact with the islands, and in some ways represent it as a good example because it does not invest so much in other parts, and then it was particularly interesting when we were making amendments and additions and new laws on mountain-mounted areas because how the instructions are and how it stands because only 117 million kuna per year will be allocated to the mountain-mounted area, and I would therefore return to this report in which it is seen. So out of the 1.7 billion kuna, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has singled out a little more than 1 comma, 181 million kuna, which means that we are all obliged to invest in these islands together, not to see that this is exclusively the obligation of the Ministry of Regional Development where the Board of the Islands belongs. Today, as I come from Sibenik-Knin County, it would be necessary to say and appeal to the Department of the Islands to support the problems of our islanders in Capri and Žirje. In fact, when we know and yesterday we talked about the aid that we have, which is received by maritime transport in 2017, the support for maritime transport amounting to 271,3 million kuna, and the Agency for Coastal, Lined Maritime Transport, which is responsible for the functioning and award of concessions to the same, has granted 259.4 million kuna while the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has granted support worth 11.9 million kuna through tax forgiveness, tax exemptions, exemptions and reliefs. Namely, as I said, the big problem is with our locals Capri and Žirje and insist that the concession for the fast-ship line of Catamaran Line from Split be taken away. Namely, it often breaks down and has major problems and cannot reach its islands or land, according to the proposed shipping order. Minister Butkovic also called today, and here I am at this opportunity to include you and to ask for an urgent solution to this problem, because the call for tenders and concessions is on the Agency's authority, but surely since it is the Department of the Islands and the Ministry of the Regions that passed the Law on Islands and we know what we said would be promised to the islanders, then it is our duty to react to the same. It is precisely in the development of a national plan for the development of coastal line maritime transport, which is entrusted to the Faculty of Marines in Rijeka and should provide guidelines and guidelines for the development of coastal maritime transport by 2030. In the area of Sibenik-Knin County we have islands that are already connected by line transport. Of course, all islanders would like that line to be more frequent, if ships as we can see were both bigger and safer, but that requires both the infrastructure and the ports open to public transport. Our Kornati National Park is a national park which has numerous facilities in its composition, there are also settlements, and there are residents who are registered there. The Kornatara Association also made an appeal, so here I am, to consider the possibility and not to happen that the national plan for the development of coastal line maritime transport, which provides for even a period of 2030, not to be considered at all, but to see the possibilities of course, as I said with the construction of certain ports, would not be possible on every island in each bay, but since the growing needs are growing and the park itself and its inhabitants, as well as the residents of Murter, who have their own and economic activities in that area, are interested in such a new line. When it comes to the lines here, it would also provide a positive example of the town of Vodice and the town of Sibenik, which are at the request of its islanders, the inhabitants of the island of Prvic port, Šepurina and Zlarina are financing a new boat line that will go on Sunday afternoons only in the winter months from 26 August to 16 June, and from their budgets there are the town of Vodice 55,000 kunas as well as the town of Sibenik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130174	Thank you very much. The next club, the next individual debate, will be a respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130175	I thank Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable State Secretary and Assistant Minister, while speaking on behalf of the club in general about implementation, the report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands, would now refer to the problem of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and mention two very important events that marked the government's behaviour towards islands and Croatia, especially in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. First of all, he would single out last year's meeting of the government in Hvar, so this is the first session on the Croatian island of the government of Croatia after 20 years where numerous projects that should be implemented in the medium, medium-term period are planned and from, estimated somewhere around 5.5 billion kuna investments in projects, projects on Croatian islands and others... The most reported is the event, which was a meeting of the government in Dubrovnik on 1 February, so 20 days ago, where projects for the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County amounted to 4.5 billion kuna were approved by the government. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is important, a large part of these funds are planned for the islands of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, therefore, for my Korčula, where I come from, for Lastovo, for Mljet, for Elafite and for Pelješac peninsula. This point is practically, the report on the effects of the implementation of the Islands Act continues to take place at a small point in the report on the use of the European Funds, and here it can be seen from this data that the Dubrovnik-Neretva County is ahead of all other counties when it comes to the withdrawal from the European Funds, though, thanks great credit, the work of state bodies, primarily due to the construction of the Pelješki bridge, but also because of the construction of air construction and reconstruction of Dubrovnik Airport. But what I would like to point out in particular is the project carried out by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which is the construction of the Adriatic ports, which are in the function of transporting the Croatian islands. Among these projects I would like to highlight 9 ports in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just supported, to strengthen its conclusions at the meeting of the Government in Dubrovnik, which refers to the reconstruction of the port... at Lastovo, a new passenger terminal, ferry port in Veli Luka, the new port of Polačište in Korčula, the new port of Perna in Orebić, the construction of the port in Trpnje, the new port of Donje Celo on Koločep, the new fishing port Sustjepan in Dubrovnik and the construction of the port of the state importance of Ploče, so these are enormous investments in, above all, the transport of the island of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the way, speaking of these ports, it is necessary to say that not only are ports necessary for better transport connections, it is very important, that the vessels, any catamarans, any ferry numbers, which were mentioned earlier and by counterpart Branko Jurič Martinchev, which is why it seems to me today and has been in a certain way expressed the dissatisfaction of the people or the island of Sibenik-Knin County who are asking for a more quality boat for maritime integration, I think, in that sense today, the shipmaster should respond with a better quality vessel, but when I am already talking about that vessel, then here on my initiative is a meeting with the mayor of Dubrovnik and all the mayors, the mayors of the island municipalities in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, to find a new, yet another one, even more promising road to the island and to be able to connect the island-to-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Land-Line-Line-Line-L-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-Line-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-Line-L-Line-L-L-Line-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-Line-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L- And in that sense, I will once again support this report on the trail of those solutions that have been given by the Law on Islands, which apparently government with this report fully supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130176	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will end the work today, and we will continue tomorrow, on Friday 22 February at 9.30 and the first point will be the report on the state and management of the stock for 2017. with financial indicators. Have a good afternoon and evening. The session was interrupted at 17.18 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-21-0.u130177	The report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2017 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2017, please vote. I find that the majority of votes are 95 for and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Representative Arsen Bauk, proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion, firstly a report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2017 and secondly, the Croatian Parliament expressed concern that the new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government units of local self-government, reduces participation in the share of income tax from 80% to 60%, creating a lack of income of 37 million kuna. The conclusion under number 1 has just been made, and there is no point in voting on it, but I am therefore voting on the proposal of Advocate Arsen Bauk, under number 2. Please, let's vote. I find the conclusion was that he got 20 votes for, 4 against and 4 abstentions and 74 against, so he didn't get enough votes.
