ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126252	The President-in-Office of HS, respected parliamentary representatives and respected parliamentary representatives, is ahead of us with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Accessibility of Networks and Program Solutions for Movement Devices of the Public Sector Body. This Law adopts Directive 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies with a view to harmonising national legislation of Member States with a fundamental principle of inclusion and accessibility ensuring the availability of websites and software solutions for mobile devices by public sector bodies to persons with disabilities, older persons and other vulnerable groups at the level at which these services are available to other citizens. Public sector bodies are increasingly using different forms of electronic communication to provide public with information and services in the field of their activities. It is therefore important that this content is available to all users, in particular to vulnerable groups who, due to different forms of disability, often remain withheld in access to digital content. The purpose of the adoption of this Act is to make web pages and software solutions for public sector mobile devices more accessible, not only to disabled persons, but to all users who, for example, will have better access to content under difficult conditions of visibility. It will also enable older people to play an active role in society to a greater extent, including the extension of their working life if they so wish. As a signator of all key Conventions and standards in the field of social and economic security of citizens, the Republic of Croatia has assumed the obligation to protect and promote human rights of persons with disabilities with the aim of their equal participation in civil, economic, political, cultural and social areas of life. The national strategy for equating opportunities for disabled persons from 2017 until 2020 stresses, among other things, the obligation of the State to enable persons with disabilities to search, receive and forward public information and information on public services and to provide them with access to personal data and electronic communications in the public sector on an equal footing with other members of society. This Law would ensure the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's obligations under Directive 2016/2102, and would achieve the objectives set out in the national strategy for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities and e-Croatian strategy 20/20. The law prescribes requirements on the accessibility of websites and software solutions for public sector mobile devices, in order to make them more accessible to all users, especially persons with disabilities. Accessibility shall be achieved by applying the principles and techniques to be taken into account when drawing up networks. Such standards foresee, for example, that there should be a text that describes them or that websites can be viewed without the use of mice, which facilitates the accessibility of content for some people with disabilities. The final proposal for the Law in relation to the proposal of the Law has been slightly amended in the light of the technical and editorial regulation of the text on the proposal of the Legislative Committee, and in accordance with the proposals and observations adopted by the competent authorities in order to improve the text of the Law. The differences between the text of the proposal of the Law and the text of the final proposal of the Law relate to the technical improvement of the introductory sentence. 5 and the corrections of certain articles mentioning the implementing decisions to be taken by the European Commission in such articles as to refer to concrete Commission implementing decisions taken and published on 12 October 2018 in the Official Journal of the EU. They shall provide for a proposal for a declaration of accessibility and shall establish a methodology for monitoring and reporting Member States on accessibility. It has been amended. 10th in a way that primarily the Central Authority of the State Administration is responsible for the development of a digital society, the holder of measures and training activities and the promotion of awareness of accessibility. Article 2 is amended as follows: 11th in a way that the Central Authority of the State Administration is responsible for the development of a digital society based on information provided to it by the Commissioner for Information, responsible for submitting the report to the European Commission. He's been wiped out. 13. as unnecessary since it is in Art. 12. Regulation and supervision of the implementation of the Law and inspection supervision. Finally, the adoption of this Act provides easier access to public services and information to all users with special emphasis on persons with disabilities and older people who will help them in their daily lives and enjoy their rights, provide a wide range of information and services on the Internet that are crucial to the public and ensure better quality of life, i.e. greater involvement of vulnerable social groups and their members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126253	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have three replicas. The first is a colleague of Grumo's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126254	Thank you, but I would like to mention the amendments that we are about to make to the bill we have already presented these complaints on the Committee of Information, some of which have been accepted, and in terms of the very punishment where we propose that if, within a certain period of time, corrections are made not to go through with monetary punishment, but to accept that the shortcomings have been removed. We will also have the meaning of the amendment that we consider to mean that before giving cash penalties for offences involving actions referred to in point (c), d and e means regular publication or non-scheduling, it means allowing users to remove these shortcomings by sending 3 amendments, we will see what you will see, which of which you will accept, and perhaps later in an individual debate Explain in more detail. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126255	You want something to say or don't you? All right, then, let's go to a colleague of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126256	Thank you very much, Mr. President, when we talk about this proposal, but also the full possibility of information and work and the availability of information to the public, I must point out that at this point we may have one of the most recent sales or privatisations that are under way in the Republic of Croatia. So at this point, the public doesn't know what's going on in Ulanik, what's going on on May 3rd, but it's hiding from the public who for how much money he's going to send the owner of that company. And then what are we even going to say about the availability of any information of anything when the most basic things the government of the Republic of Croatia hides from our fellow citizens. So that's what we need to talk about here very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126257	You want an answer? There you go, pal. Third line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126258	Oh, I apologize, Your Honor, Secretary of State, the directive itself and the law are definitely commendable and I don't see at all the possibility of finding a reason to be against it. Why did I answer the line, ask you further, since in many other laws, starting with the Law on Construction and all others, we have just those parts of helping disabled people adapt to everything and everything so that they can live together in the same conditions as the rest of us. However, sit in a wheelchair with disability and pass through Split, Zagreb, Rijeka and other cities and you will see that this is not the case at all in implementation. What I was going to ask you to really make sure that your office and you make sure that this law is really implemented and that when it comes into force, we make sure that the parties adapt. Well, at least in this aspect, in this segment we really adapt the internal sides to people with disabilities, as is not the case in construction and everyday life in Croatia, unfortunately even though we still have the law. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126259	There's no answer, so then I'm calling the committee reporter now if they want to take the floor, no. Then let's go to the debate, first in line on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ljubica Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126260	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleague and colleague, here I am pleased that today as the first item of the agenda is the point of accessibility. So allow me before I say a few words about the final proposal of this law to say just one, two sentences of accessibility that respects this high home. Mr. President, allow me to thank you personally and all the services in the Croatian Parliament for making this high home accessible to all persons with disabilities, so here I am when speaking on behalf of the club and our Ombudsman for persons with disabilities when she comes to this high house to present her report. At this point this was the best solution, I know that some of the colleagues were also talking about how this is not a solution, that they are not satisfied, but believe me this was the best solution about any possible new solutions we will talk about in the future, but it is important that accessibility is achieved. That's what we wanted and once again, Mr. President, thank you very much for understanding. So, before us, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Accessibility of Networks and Software Solutions for Public Sector Movement Devices, as you know, the Republic of Croatia signed as a 3 country in the world of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities even further in 2007. Furthermore, last year, the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities, and this law is exactly what I would say is a law that equalises opportunities. As the Secretary of State has said in this law in national legislation, Directive 2016/2102 and that Directive therefore, as well as the National Strategy and Convention, requires that persons with disabilities be given a specific adjustment, i.e. make a certain accessibility. Public sector bodies are increasingly using different forms of electronic communication to provide information. However, this information must be made available personally to all and to persons with disabilities and older people. Therefore, the purpose of adopting this law is to make web pages and software solutions available to all users with special emphasis on persons with disabilities and older people. The law prescribes requirements on the accessibility of websites and software solutions for public sector mobile devices in order to make them more accessible than I have already mentioned to persons with disabilities and older people. Accessibility shall be achieved by applying the principles and techniques to be taken into account when drawing up networks. Such standards provide for example. that there should be a text near the image describing the images or that the web pages can be viewed without using the mouse. So that's a relief of accessibility. There are people with disabilities you'll see today, for example. in a wheelchair and you won't notice that they can't use a mouse, but if it's progressive diagnosis they can do something today and the question of whether they can do it tomorrow. This final draft law has been slightly amended in relation to the draft law. I am now not going to say which articles have been amended because the Secretary of State has also spoken about this, but I would like to point out in particular that Article 10 has been amended in a way that primarily the Central Authority is responsible for the development of a digital society, the holder is taking measures and training and promoting awareness of accessibility. Therefore, in Article 10(2) of that Central State Authority, together with the roof organisation of the Community of Persons with Disabilities, will carry out training, will raise awareness of persons with disabilities and can indeed do so by the Central State Authority only and only by a roof organisation who will know when the training should be attended by a representative of which categories of persons with disabilities. The adoption of this law makes it easier to access public services and information to all users. And I'm going to mention once again with a special emphasis on people with disabilities and older people. In this way I will say even older people can stay longer in the world of work and that is what is extremely important. This law will help people with disabilities and older people in everyday life, to enjoy their rights, to provide them with a spectrum of information and services on the Internet, and what is most important we will equalise their opportunities. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126261	Thank you. We are now going to another Club of Representatives, it is the Living Wall and the SNAG, but there is no representative of their Ivan Vilibor Sincic and they lose their right to speak. It is now up to the SDP representative club and representative Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126262	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I will at the beginning of the debate on behalf of the SDP Club repeat what I said in the replica. This law is actually very difficult to find any reason to be against such a law because it is essentially all the positive things that a law should bring into a country. However, what I have asked and what I would like to ask your secretary of state primarily and personally to make sure that this law is fully implemented because the problem of our country is most often that many of the laws we have very bad or almost nothing at all, let's just say, when it comes to the rights and adjustments of the whole country and society to persons with disabilities, frankly speaking, the Republic of Croatia is terribly bad, very bad or almost nothing. Here's the best example of this Parliament where we needed no less or more, almost 30 years to remember and put one customized... In doing so, do not understand it, please, personally, neither you nor the current government, because this House has been through a lot of authorities, so none has ever thought of it, I speak only as a criticism of any authority but as a criticism of the principle of the state of consciousness of all of us, that things that are perfectly simple, we need a very long, very long time to make them, and it is not at all a problem to make them, and precisely because when we talk about persons with disabilities, you have the Law on Construction, the Law on Urban Life, however, try to sit in a wheelchair disabled and try to pass through Split, try to pass through Zagreb and see how completely unadjusted our cities are, however, and how in fact persons with disabilities and especially persons in wheelchairs, very difficult they can live alone in our cities because they are completely unadjusted even though all the laws are required to be adapted, but we are here, although we are, although we are very weak, and we are very weak in keeping it and so we do not have to do so in our own situation, and we have done there, and we do something together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this is very important in this law, to really try to implement that word. Now, second thing, this law concerning the information and digitisation of society, and what I've been saying for a few years now is that actually informing or digitising the Republic of Croatia is a tool that can actually solve a lot of problems that we have in this country. Unfortunately, however, we have never recognized it properly and carried out certain actions to do so. I'm going to ask you one question, why do you think banks and stores invest so much money, budgets and resources to go online and put their services online, let's say so, on the Internet that customers and their customers can very easily get to it? Not because they are very good and want citizens, their customers and users to have better or I don't know what services, but simply because they realized that if they transferred their services to the Internet, they would make more money with less effort, that their services would be available from 0 to 24, that they would benefit much less from their spaces, their people, their employees, their employees, and everything else and money would earn because people and citizens would use all these services. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we recognize such a thing as evidence in principle is complete let's say the information that happens through the Ministry of Administration and through online services for citizens where we have the system of E-Citizens, but we still haven't all done enough together to make this big step so that this country becomes an equal society of Western European states in this respect. Recently, a few months ago, a re-examination of the famous Doing Business or the way we are in the world in regulatory business and the results for us were devastating, either if I'm not mistaken, there I am writing down, 58. Also, one day a survey took place on the corruption perception index where Croatia is located, so we concluded that we are very poor compared to the EU and that this is the same area that we have to work very hard on. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, it is a picture of Croatia today. In principle, it means that through these two researches it is perfectly clear that Croatian society and the Croatian administration are very disorganised, that all our processes are business or administrative, but as you will say they are very complicated, slow and difficult and precisely one of the great reasons why corruption is developing and developing. What I am saying and dare to say is that one information strong strategically set and truly rights in the Republic of Croatia is able to resolve the eradication of both of these problems because I argue that digitisation or informationisation is the best form of fighting corruption, and so that is the perfect way to reform public administration and I will back it up with two examples. The first example when we talk about the possibility of corruption, we have today in our country, or today for many years, online colleges and high school records, as well as recently. And what's fantastic about these systems is that in principle everything happens publicly, transparently, based on points through one information system and we can say that there is no form of creativity otherwise known in our Croats, which can change something to make someone in a better position in the whole process that is informed and someone in a worse position. Before there was such a system always at the time of college or anything, there were terrible pressures on many people working in different colleges to explain how their little or little genius was, but there was something that didn't work out, so it took a little help or how. Today it's impossible, impossible for the reason why we've actually removed the link that can most often be the weakest, we've removed the man. And the complete process we've informed and made it transparent and unambiguous and there's no way anyone can change it in any way. It's a perfect example of how you can fight corruption from the smallest things to the greatest things. If in other segments of society we apply these processes, such processes, in principle what we will get, which we will achieve to remove people from some complicated processes, we will get efficiency, we will get speed, we will get transparency and we will call it creativity under quotes, which is why we are in principle at the bottom of a scale of corruption in the EU. Another example is what I also want to say that information is a fantastic tool for public administration reform. I don't belong to those who think the public administration will reform so if you fire 30% of people or if you transfer 100 kg of people from the left to the right or change 5 administrations. I think it's all spilling from hollow to empty. I am personally deeply convinced that the rights and reforms of the public administration are, in principle, the changes in outdated and no business and administrative processes that we have in public administration today. When we change processes, when we modernise processes, that's what we inform ourselves, absolutely many things will immediately change. And for that, I have an example from the Department of Administration, an example of birth certificates, birth certificates, married, mortals, housewives, and everything else that goes on. I don't know if you know it, but on these jobs about five, six, seven years ago, it worked in the Republic of Croatia about 800, maybe more people. It's a database of all the people in the Republic of Croatia who live, who were born, married, who once died and already worked on by about 800 people. I dare say that the base of HT or T-mobiles that issue phone bills every month is more complicated and difficult than that base and that they are much less used for one such job, and we used all these powerful people because we did this job, as they say, on the hands, without too much input technology and everything. Today, thanks to several governments from today and back, the processes in this area are fully informed. Everything the Ministry of Administration does in this process is on the Internet or in e-Citizens, all the services they provide today can be done through e-Citizens. You know what that means? This means that all those who use e-Citizens no longer have to go to the Offices of State Administration to look for birth, marriage and all other similar lists. It also means that in all these offices they don't need people who have worked eight hours a day on it, sitting there waiting for all these big parties, they can do other things. It means perspective if the system of e-citizens as our central e-service system from today's 600,000 citizens using it comes tomorrow to 2,000 thousand. This means that there is a question at all about the needs of these 800 or how many people to work on a job that is fully informed. I absolutely don't think these people should be fired or done anything. There are things called requalifications, there are natural effusions of people and everything else. And what I'm saying is actually, it's public administration reform. With one such thing you have completely changed one complete business sector, it has changed completely. And I think that's the way in which all the other sectors in the country that provide any form of service, simply sooner or later, have to go because it's the only way to change something in this famous dujing business scale and no matter how complicated it seems today, the thing is perfectly technical and engineeringly simple. A government should sit down, bring strategic goals, define where we are weak and prepare resources and people to change it and do it. Simply, I'm definitely saying that systems such as on-line services, our e-citizens, birth certificates and everything else, can bring revolution very quickly in this country. I don't know if you're aware, but today in the RH passport you can get from the living room, from the chair, completely online, definitely. I don't know if you're aware, but there are e-born services that allow you to have anyone who has a new child not to go anywhere to report that child, to do it through the system of e-citizens. Before that, parents had to walk on, I don't know how many places and spend how many days doing it. What I'm saying is that IT is brilliantly simplifying the lives of our citizens and people, and we are here and our mission is in principle to do so. And we in the state administration system definitely have people who are perfectly able to bring out all these things. What we need is to organize ourselves and move in that direction. The last 10 years have passed several governments through this country and I have to admit that all the governments that have been there for the last 10 years have worked very hard on this issue and today are working very hard and I know that in principle we are waiting for some larger funds from the European funds that should basically support all these things, but what I want to say we have to do, we have to work a lot more on this because, I am deeply convinced that the Republic of Croatia through this year as we are, we have given a lot of money for a lot of things, we have given billions and billions in various incentives, in particular, we give a lot of incentives, we have never controlled them at all what happened to them. If by some miracle one government decided that in the IT sector in this country, or that in informing this country literally succeeds in a positive aspect of three, four billion kunas that we have been giving without a problem all these years for all and all, I dare guarantee with the right leadership and in the right way we are dealing with a bunch of problems with today, we can solve in the perspective of 3 to 4 years, because information is a genius thing because it doesn't lead us to any division in society, no ideological, no historical, information is a thing that can only bring good to all of us, information is a thing that will turn the country's defacto into their home, on their computers and the state will be what needs to be, at the service of citizens, fast, efficient and cheap. And I insist that information is not a project, it's not a process, the information of a country is a path that goes on and the Republic of Croatia is going that way, but I think we can all go together, I always say that because this must be a national consensus, we can go a lot faster along the way if we all agree that it's a priority and what I keep saying, that a bunch of problems we have today, such as corruption, such as the need for reforms, with one good efficient information and not so much money, we can solve it without a problem within very few years. Thank you and eventually the SDP will support this law, as we supported it in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126263	We are now going to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Nada Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126264	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Accessibility of Networks and Program Solutions for Mobile Devices and Public Sector Bodies in the Second Reading, and I will start by saying, we as the Club did not participate in the debate in the first reading, we had no particular objection to the bill, but in the second reading we will support the law and that... We'll back him up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that the colleague Paric, who spoke before me, said almost everything, that is, the topic has spread exactly the right way, which is that the digitization of society, and in particular the public sector, is something that is a condition, in general, for the functioning of the state in a modern way, and in the way that we want to, and that is that the public sector is a service to our citizens. So, in principle, the law is not only good because it deals here specifically with people who have a certain kind of disability or certain difficulties, so it's very important for them to use information technology, something that their window in the world is in some way and that they can keep up with the information they need for everyday life, but also, of course, for every citizen, every citizen, is extremely important, for the public sector to be informed, to be transparent, to be up-to-date, to be true at all times, available, timely, etc. All the things of course we'd like. What I'm just going to draw attention to, because I say colleague Paric, I think he said almost everything, is that the state has to insist on, to keep the public sector in step with time, so I know that I've been doing a lot of work in local and regional self-government, the third ball's too long and it's been too long, while there are units of local self-government, all going to make their own websites. Today, it seems to me that these sites are not all units of local self-government, so I will not call anyone individually, but they are not sufficiently up-to-date, and I would even say they are not true and are not service to our citizens, they often lead them unfortunately and into error, and that is unfortunately the case of our competent insinuations within the ministries, so let's say some instructions that you can read about the outcome of certain certificates or certain papers have already become obsolete, so when you come to the counter ready, with certain data, it turns out that something has changed, ad and on the web pages it hasn't been recorded, or that it hasn't changed. Such things, I think, should even be punished, I mean, of course in some first step, is always a warning to correct themselves. However, such a thing cannot stand on the pages of either the ministry or any public institutions, such as all that truth, so that by appearing on the counter of some of these institutions, you can find out and what it says is not true, and in particular it applies to people and persons who have difficulty moving or in some other way are cut off for function as all others also say normal people. So I think that according to those who don't stick to the truthfulness of the information on their websites, who don't update them in time, I think that after that first step, some kind of warning should really go with drastic penalties. I think, too, that we still have a fat cough in this information and digitisation for the private sector, for companies, we know how much money is going on on the Internet, in the ability to provide certain information relating to trade, banking, I don't know, various services, which are either sold or offered via the Internet. I think the thick late public sector in this sense gives real information to its citizens on certain possibilities of competitions, I don't know, all sorts of other information that comes up. This timelyness of this availability of information via web sites or via the Internet, through these mobile devices, we already have those dozens of species in which we can access these information, it is extremely important that especially persons with disabilities, older people, who may not have had the opportunity in time through the school system, to be trained to use such devices, to give the opportunity to see through the competent ministries, in which way, to give these people a specific education on the use of the Internet, regardless of what it is to us all or bigger people, the thing that is considered normal and as something that we all do not, however, is not so, and in particular it is not so for those specific threatened I would say groups, which simply or do not have financial opportunities, or simply did not find themselves in a certain situation to acquire these knowledge and opportunities to use it. So that's definitely what I need to do, it's much cheaper for me, for us much cheaper than to invest in some things that are much more expensive, here's my colleague Paric, which seems to me just last time in the debate in the first reading, talking about building procedures, or about removing those barriers which, of course, are a big problem for the disabled, and of course we haven't completely solved or, unfortunately, perhaps in most cases we haven't solved. Here I welcome that we have taken a small step here in the Croatian Parliament and provided at least this is the equality of our colleagues who are disabled in terms of public appearance in the Croatian Parliament in such a way that we have put one custom speaker next to the one everyone knows. So we have to take these steps to the father's point I've drawn attention to these construction procedures which are often very expensive and the question in fact is that this relationship of some number of users of our disabled people, or the will of our disabled people, that they come into some kind of institutions, because 1,000 times already kissed the door and saw that they couldn't get into certain institutions in an adequate way, that with those money that might even be invested somewhere, and they should invest, to facilitate access, that investment means proportional investment in equipment, knowledge, education for access to such information through the Internet, this was multiple even I would say cheaper, and that's what I say to my colleague Paric earlier, one government will probably one day decide that not only because of the disabled but because of all of its citizens's investments, but rather spends money in the right way of digitalisation and information. We will have much less problems with false news, passing false news, fabricating and prefabricating certain news that are particularly relevant to political decisions and decisions relating to the public sector and public service. Here it is, of course, a lot could happen and more colleagues would probably draw attention to some more things that appear in this sector, of course insist on it almost every day to digitize the public sector, it would be much less what I said to false news, factory news, would be ultimately and less corruption because citizens could be informed in due time about things that should be transparent and which I could see somewhere, simply read them, not to say about public competitions for various things, about competitions for work etc., etc. Here, so we welcome this, I hope that the disabled will feel very quickly the benefits of applying this law or insisting on the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126265	Now it's the club of independent representatives and respected colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126266	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker, right at the beginning of the word that this legislative proposal should certainly be supported. My colleague Ljubica Lukačić spoke on behalf of the club about the advantages of this law and here we agree and of course I know and I am convinced how many colleagues Ljubica Lukačić advocates the rights of persons with disabilities. However, this is not all about Ljubica Lukačić, of course the rest of us need to do more and more, and society as a whole, especially to make life easier, easier and more accessible for people with disabilities, which ultimately brings this law. Careful technology is rapidly developing about it are my predecessors saying, technological solutions are coming, and as a society, we're still developing a little bit slower. And if there is any way to see the relationship of society with minorities is seen in relation to people with disabilities, as we treat people with disabilities, we don't have to act like we treat other minorities differently. And that's why we need to make more effort, more, more of this good solution in that direction to make life easier for these people, here I'm going to mention this pay phone, of course it's good that she's here but to try to figure out the difference between certain approaches, I'm supposed to talk about this speaker now and see how we, to make it difficult for me, because it's simply about accessibility. But let's go back to the essence of this law, so this law is a good step, but we don't think it's enough yet. It contains certain solutions that will help, but will not be clear enough for the right implementation in its application. Well, before I begin to explain these articles myself, I would like to point out that the Law on Electronic Communications in its articles also lists a certain, certain direction towards people with disabilities. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. And Article 35 defines that universal services must be accessible equally, available to all citizens. It's kind of weird to me that in this law they didn't, there's no connection to the Law on Electronic Communications, I don't know, I'm not saying it's bad, but it seemed a little weird, especially what. 35 Here's the story of St. 5, these are special measures, emergency services, information information because the truth, these art. e-communications concern everything, all stakeholders of society, but here we are talking about the public sector and this Law refers to the public sector. HAKOM has otherwise developed an application, I was just looking at it today, it's called Quiz, where people with disabilities can use this Quiz, and other citizens see all the difficulties that arise when using applications of disabled people, so you can choose motor problems, tremor hands, tremor heads, distraction, then visual, lack of visibility, I don't know what these names of protanopies, tritanopia, deuteranopia and cognitive, movement of text, jumping letters, therefore, it's a very good application in which we can see how individual technical solutions are used to allow people with disabilities to use them better. And one more thing before I go on specific provisions, each of us, believe each and every one of us can be or become a person with disabilities, we don't know what life holds. In this sense, individual ones, when it comes to auto-industry, individual houses, so I think one of the applications is called Travel Angel, let's say, developed an application at the time of the car accident that your mobile device connects to the 112 system and automatically informs about it, if you are immobilized at that point or if you cannot otherwise indicate that you are in danger, that this application allows you to do so, it is one of the examples of good technical or technological solutions. Now let's go to concrete remarks. So, my colleague Ljubica Lukanović pointed to art in her first reading. 3 where this law does not apply to kindergartens, primary and secondary schools and dormitories, except for the contents relating to key internet and administrative functions. And here we are explained that this would require significant financial resources, resources that may not be achieved, and in that part we understand, but you can see, it would be good that this law, apart from the infringement provisions, also has incentive provisions, because it is precisely education of young people, not only for the use of those who need special conditions or special accessibility of certain new technologies, but also for those who make them because making such applications necessary for people with disabilities requires certain skills that are specific knowledge. In this sense, educational institutions could be involved, so it could be encouraged to create whole projects where young people, of course, when we talk about elementary school, it's already some level where high school could be, especially, and not to talk about scientific really university institutions, where students could get involved in making such applications, which would be rewarded. Art. 10 Here it is mentioned, here it is defined in Article 2 that cooperation with the public administration school, the Commissioner for Information and the roof national organisation of disabled persons organises and implements training programmes for public sector staff and other.../incomprehensible/... for the development, management, maintenance of network content and software solutions for mobile devices in accordance with this law. So, talk about education of public sector employees, it won't be enough in my humble opinion, so we'll have to involve people who have specialized knowledge, we can't train exactly, unless in the public sector the programmers themselves, so informers, we'll have a hard time training all the employees to do it, and in particular here we'll look back at local self-government units, fellow Hope Turin Đurić mentioned that many of them don't actually have their own websites, if there are, then they're zombie sites, they don't, and you know why they don't have them because they don't have the maintenance and making costs, it's money, and the employees of these municipalities and cities, the municipalities, let's just hang around, I guess that the cities still have this kind of resources, the municipalities can't finance it themselves. So in this direction the law goes towards it, but we're not going to get enough results because here's the most controversial thing in the law for me is, when I speak questionably in the law, I don't criticise the law because the law, somewhere it has to go, but I'm afraid it's going to be an exercise. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8 it is said: The public sector body shall carry out an initial assessment to the extent that compliance with the accessibility requirements set out in Article 2 is achieved. 6 of this law imposes a disproportionate burden. The public sector body will take into account in particular the size and nature of the public sector body and the estimated costs and benefits for the body in relation to the benefit assessments for persons with disabilities, taking into account the frequency and duration of use of the individual network site or the software solutions for mobile devices. And then it is bound of course to the Declaration of Accessibility and Feedback Information. Now it's just a question of who's making this initial assessment? Who's going to make that assessment? The law doesn't make it clear to me. Will it be some authorized person or body who will be able to because if we leave the units of local self-government to make these assessments themselves, then they actually turn us into bread as a dog when they chase their tail because we have a lot of rigorous ones, I see that a colleague of Grumoja has announced an amendment, a lot of rigorous violation provisions where they are punished, where units of local self-government and, of course, the responsible person of the unit and not just units of local self-government, bodies of public authority, of 250,000 kuna, and a person of 500-5 thousand kuna. I have no particular objection to whether this amount is too high, but the observation is whether or not we are going to achieve the goal, what the report will say and who will make the assessment. This is what I think if you can explain to me the representatives of the Ministry or the Central State Office, and as far as other provisions are concerned, I think that this is okay and that this is in line with these guidelines or directives that we have taken from the EU and that this law in this sense of progress, and in the end, once again, this is not enough, let it be a start for a more intensive action that the Central State Office, as well as the government as a whole, and we in this House, in the future, will make the lives of persons with disabilities more accessible and quality. We'll look into the law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126267	Now let's go to the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126268	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, and we will most likely support the law, regardless of how these amendments of ours are going to go, because the law must be one step forward. What I would agree with colleagues who spoke before me is, of course, information, digitisation, but we only talk about it, unfortunately, very little, and when it comes to these shifts is not enough, especially if we are talking about what our colleague Paric was talking about, and it is about public administration reform. We have an action plan left in the Ministry of Administration, provided by the European funds 880 million kn, however, this crucial reform is not happening, it is important not only for transparency, it is also important because of the more efficient public administration, the cheaper public administration, ultimately the cheaper state administration, however, we know that this would ultimately lead to those who in this public administration, or those who use this public administration as a polygon for party arrest losing a large part of their political power, then of course there is no political will to move in that direction. It's a key reform, because we're spending 27.8 billion kuna on employees' salaries and 13 billion kuna on material expenditures. So the public administration must be effective, it must be depolitical, it must be optimised, and of course, the key is digitisation. But we see that those projects that have been left behind, which are almost, for which the funds are not even being implemented, Minister Kuscevic, only goes partly into the implementation of certain projects, only one of the four that makes up the reform action plan and public administration, but what we can expect from man, who says he uses private or official mail depending on what the signal of the internet network is. It speaks of his knowledge, meaning the digitalization itself and these processes. As for the very law on the accessibility of websites and software solutions for public-sector mobile devices, I said we'd support it, we'd give three amendments. So 1 amendment is to Article 10(2) where we apply to change and read, the body referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, in cooperation with the Public Administration School, the Commissioner for Information and the representative of the Civil Society Organisation, on a proposal for a Council for Civil Society Development of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, draws up a plan and a training programme for public sector bodies and other relevant stakeholders for the production, management and maintenance of network cells and software solutions for mobile devices in accordance with this law. In the current paragraph, the applicant highlights the roof national organisation of people with disabilities, without indicating the criteria of choice. One of the tasks of the Council for Civil Society Development, as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on the development and cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the organisation of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, is also to run for the selection of representatives of civil society organisations in the commission, advisory or working bodies at the request of the state administration, government offices and other public authorities. This would lead the Council to develop civil society, assume the obligation to collect bids, elect a roof national organisation of persons with disabilities, which will participate in the organisation, implement the training programme. The amendment also provides for the creation of a flax and training programme developed by the central authority of the state administration, responsible for the development of a digital society in cooperation with the State School for Public Administration, the Commissioner for Information and the Council for the Development of the Civil Society of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The second amendment proposed in Article 11 means that Article 11(2) is amended and said, the Commissioner for Information, in addition to the data and opinions delivered by the central authority of the state administration, responsible for the development of the digital society to be supplied as a contribution to the report, shall submit a report to the European Commission on the results of the monitoring including the measured data, as well as on the monitoring information. The reason is that since this final draft law provides for the powers of the Commissioner for Information to monitor the compliance of network sites and software solutions for public sector mobile devices, with accessibility requirements, and to monitor the implementation of this law, and the central authority of the state administration responsible for the development of the digital society takes steps to facilitate the application of accessibility requirements to other types of networks and software solutions for mobile devices, it is necessary to maintain the independence of reporting to the Commissioner for Information to give the report to the European Commission, in addition to opinions and data from the central authority of the state administration, responsible for the development of a digital society which is an integral part of the European Commission. And the third amendment that I mentioned here in the replica, means in Art. Article 14 14 is added to paragraph 3 which reads as a fine for infringement of point 1 of point C, D, and E shall not be imposed if, after written warning of the authority responsible for the infringement of the public sector body, it executes the orders and removes the identified deficiencies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If the authorities do not comply with the control authority’s orders within the time limit and do not remove the identified deficiencies, then the imposition of fines remains as a legal possibility to ensure the enforcement of the obligation of the body. So the proposal is to go educationally, to remove shortcomings, then if it's not done within a certain time limit to then go with fines. Here's the short part, I think these amendments would improve this bill, but we will definitely support this bill regardless of the attitude and these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126269	We are now going to two individual debates, first in line is respected colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126270	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Gršić, with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. In previous discussions, we have heard that it is difficult to find reasons why anyone would be against this law, I can only say that there is no reason why anyone would be against this human and anti-discrimination law and what is important to say so public sector bodies, all the provisions have a network site and a certain kind of Internet interactiveity and it would really be discriminating that older people, persons with disabilities, persons with low-sightedness, or persons who are already in real life in some way discriminated, do not have access to content, internet bodies of public administration and all other bodies defined by this law and on us to enable them to do what will and enable them to do with this law, equal conditions and business and actually access to information from public sector bodies. What is important to say is that in the past year, research has shown that in the Republic of Croatia 94% of people use smartphones and this applies to persons between 18 and 30 years of age. And now you can imagine what it would be like to make it impossible for people with disabilities to have equal access to public administration bodies and all bodies regulated by this law. What my colleague from MOST said to the previous debate, we had one debate on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, where I explained why amendments proposed by colleagues from MOST, one amendment can pass, it is actually completely benign in the sense that it does not affect other laws, the other amendments that colleagues propose from MOST, show a lack of understanding of this law in the sense of getting into the business of the law or the measure of another law which actually regulates the work of the Commissioners for Information. If we have carefully read this law, then we see that in Article 12, we actually have the role of the Commissioner for Information who oversees the implementation of this law, and that there are inspectors of the Office of the Commissioner for Information and also Article 11 on which a colleague from the Most was referred in the previous debate on the request for an amendment can also not be something that is justified because this article is once again in the other two laws, the law under which the Central State Office for Digital Society and, on the other hand, the Commissioner for Information is working, so we cannot expect that something that would be completely unnatural to be brought into this law, so that it would be expected that the amendments would not actually be submitted in such a way simply to be filed. E-Croatia was mentioned in a previous debate by MP Paric, e-Croatia is a very strategic strategy, I would be very happy if it really were to be conducted in full. We ourselves have a situation in the public administration that we have heard from previous discussions, that our digitisation or information if you want public administrations has been partially implemented. That means, I'm looking at it if we want metaphorically, as if we have cheese with holes, so where the holes are, there's no interlink between the body of the public administration and the rest is compact. In order to achieve that everything is compact, it is necessary to unify public administration bodies at the level of information because that level is flowable to some level and then all stops there, so if you want to use e-Citizens service, then you will get to a certain level, you will go to the depth horizontally and vertically, in width, and then you will stop because you will get to one body of public administration that does not support that level that is expected to be networked within the entire project. So we have a number of partial projects but we do not have a systematic coverage of all public administration bodies because simply these public administration bodies are not able to give that level that is expected to be an integral part of this whole package. This is unfortunately so, but I believe that in the next period with the help of the central state office and all of us here and all relevant achieves this level of passivity, passivity and in fact the searchability and services of our citizens because the research has also shown that the most citizens expect these services in health and public administration, we all want to get to a document as easily as possible, that it is easier for us to search and that the shortest way to get to this document, in that I do not, certainly this Law is something to be commended and that goes, therefore, towards improving public administration, and especially anti-discrimination of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126271	We have three replicas, first mate Paric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126272	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Vuksanovic, one, perhaps a non-typical replica to defend fellow MOST colleagues who are not there. They gave a few amendments to the truth, but in the end, if I heard correctly, my colleague Grumoja said that he would either accept or not these amendments, they support this Law, which is actually very nice to me because it shows that they understand the absolute importance and all this law needs to be passed, and it is in this present assembly's session of what it is, progress, believe me. And the other thing, you have a great analogy around cheese and holes, I'd just like to change that analogy a little bit in a way that, because there's a lot less holes than cheese, those holes are the informed parts of our country, and what we need to do is that cheese around, but analogy is really great for you, every honor, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126273	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126274	Thank you very much. Dear Paric, there are different kinds of cheeses, and then some of them have more holes, some have fewer, and as far as the defence needs of MOST colleagues are concerned, there's no need to defend, nor have they been attacked. It is only that they tried to solve some of the shortcomings of some other laws through this Law, which is not rare and I am happy that they will support this Law, as we all are, and I am glad that we show this level of consent when these issues are indeed of general interest and anti-discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126275	Second replica, Comrade Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126276	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Petriyevcan, I've been invited to the replica by your debate, and you're talking about the connection between the state administration. One Law that was passed there in 2008-2009, the Law on Personal Identification Number (OIB) meant that the complete state administration would be informed, that in the central register that would be, whether in the Tax Administration or in the APIS or in the FINA at all, all data would be collected precisely on the basis of this OIB, and that in such a way Croatian citizens, all of them and those who, and those who are not, power practically with, come to information and to a solution without visiting the Office of the State Administration. However, this OIB was supposed to be a blood count for both individuals and businesses, and then it got stuck there in the last few years, and in 2010 the Protocol on Interchanges was signed. The data, therefore, was already said that [[Intruder: Thank you]] State administration needs to be informed. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126277	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126278	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Shuker, I know this Law because at the time I had little to do with it and studied these Laws, and otherwise since 2005 I have been following that information. So we're looking for a kind of cheese that has less holes, now I don't know if it's an edamac, an emmenter or an emmenter has a lot of holes, probably, I don't know, I don't understand so much about cheeses, but this law was as good as I said to fellow Parisic, you, for example, have a cybersecurity law where 19 or 20 bodies of public administration and the Central State Office are both at the same level and have equal levels of protection, say, information systems. It's practically impossible because one Ministry, for example, is on one level, the other Ministry is on the other. Once we achieve the greatest uniformity of these public administration bodies in the sense that their information system is the same, then there will be that flow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126279	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Paric here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126280	Dear President HS, I apologize in advance, and feel free to give me a warning as to what I will use to lead the Rules of Procedure, but... No, I, I, I just, here, I'll just say one sentence, I have to, I have to, I have to say it [[Intruder: No, no, it can't, we can't do that, no, so you consciously, so you deliberately announce that you're going to violate the Rules of Procedure and that you're abusing this institute, it's not right]] All the OIB system is the cornerstone of the information of the Republic of Croatia, there has been a lot of wandering around it, but without it today there would be no possible information [[Intruder: And you can't, you can't]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I'm sorry. [[Agreement: Colon Paric]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126281	I have to give you a warning, but let's not do that. Yeah, but it's like a player says, I'm gonna slip into an opponent now, give me a red card, I'm gonna break his leg, so it's not like that right now. My colleagues, Ljubica Lukačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126282	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, in your debate, you have referred to the amendments that my colleague Grumoja has explained in detail on behalf of the Most. You've already said one part, and here you have said why they're not founded, I'll just, I just want to say one more time, it's important to point out that in Art. In the 10th century, we are not talking about any, but not about any commission, but we are talking about counselling that really cannot be provided by anyone, no one else in civil society, but by the roof organization of the community to the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126283	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126284	Dear colleagues Lukačić, we also spoke on the Committee on Information and Information and Media, and on these previous articles. 11 and 8 and 11 respectively. 8th and 12th, we've had the same problem in this way, so we're okay with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126285	Thank you. Let's go to the next individual debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126286	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about laws that will help our citizens have better quality information, public service and therefore, I would say more transparent management of state and public authorities, it should, of course, be supported immediately and it should be openly said that, for some time, the less, the more successful, the more the work is done to improve certain solutions in the area of network sites and software solutions for citizens. They can also highlight the solutions that have received some awards, as was the case for an e-Citizen four, five years ago and a world prize where we have made one step towards citizens where what should be normal and unfortunately did not continue at such a pace in the next governments is possible. So that certain services can be done through a program without coming with less paperwork, for example here and the opening of the crafts, before here I now remember for four years or so, and for three and a few years, it will now be four years, when we have released the service, and on this side we would like this government to continue with this kind of transparency and the amount of services that they offer to its citizens in order for them to have a more efficient public administration. Unfortunately, what we have now in a position or situation means citizens have less and less information and unfortunately these services are not offered in, I would say fast enough and not develop in a way that should be developed in some perhaps other EU countries or other globally advanced technological countries. So on this side I can say, here's what I said and in the opening statement, our transparency of our government is a step back at this point one big industry decides about it, nobody knows anything, behind closed doors is being analysed offers related to shipbuilding and it's almost amazing that a colleague Horvat, a minister of economy refuses to give public information at all who has submitted what money, how many workers will work, which is at all the perspective of these companies in the future. And on the other hand, I have to say that I am not satisfied with how our government treats this transparency. Or, for example, why we would not have developed a health care service, in public health to make people aware of whether they can perform a general medical examination, get a vaccine or not. I must warn you, ladies and gentlemen, this information is very important to all of our citizens that at this point in Croatia as if we are in the Middle Ages, there is a shortage of tetanus vaccines. You can't get that vaccine almost at any doctor's general practice because the minister didn't approve of the import, and the immunological institution that produced it was destroyed. Here is where Croatia is today, where our health care is, where information is Mrs Lukačić it would be normal to have information, a network program that will inform you you cannot get a tetanus vaccine because it is not available in Croatia. As if Croatia were in the 3rd century, here is a fellow citizen, following today's meeting of the assembly, sent me an e-mail and warned of this alarming situation that the tetanus vaccine in Croatia is gone, that there is a shortage. What about our citizens who don't have that information, who might want to leave today to get a vaccine, get hurt, go to their doctor and can't be vaccinated. Or in 6 months after he has to repeat the vaccine, he cannot be vaccinated. And which is why ours, let's say, it would be normal for the Department of Health to have such programs that would inform citizens about regular vaccinations, about the situation of supply, if you could, if you couldn't, etc. Do a certain service that the ministry, the doctor of general practice, should give you. So these solutions do not exist with us, there is a principle in us, I would say that a step backwards, that it does not allow people to get full timely information, but through the media as Minister Kujundzic does quite often talk about the idyllic situation in health, and we do not have the most basic vaccines that we should have. Imagine today in Croatia there are no tetanus vaccines available to doctors of general practice, if you get hurt so that some of our citizens may normally be vaccinated or possibly have some, but generally the government of the shortages because the minister did not approve of imports, and around the Immunological Institute is unable for 3 years this government almost and Oreshkovic's government is unable to do any work so that this company that can do so is functional and that our citizens have certain protection that every normal citizen should have. And on this side, when you see all these examples, you ask yourself what kind of solutions, what programs will be done in general, you make, so we will adopt a law here that can be good, we will all support it, and we want to get as much of our management and information as possible, and that solutions are done, that our citizens have full information, that for example today we know that we click here on, on the City of Zagreb pages, that I immediately see the quality of air on Jakushevec, what the quality of air quality at the waste dump site that the City of Zagreb does not solve for more than 10 years, so I should have already closed it at the announcements of Mayor Jakushevec last year, but now it will work until 2029. I want to have 3 measurement stations there that work to tell me what air quality is. These are the solutions that our citizens need, which our bodies are public authorities, means whether the local level, whether the state government is not working. I want to know how the process of assessing offers in Uljanic and in May 3rd is going, but it can't be obtained on the hood because of what is worth the rule of bringing the problem to escalation, the destruction of shipbuilding, Agrokor in problems, the garbage on Jakushevec, and then in the last 100th century we offer solutions take or leave and usually some interesting lobbys earning 10 million euros and more money in order to, in fact, make private interests the most important, not our citizens who possibly use these services. And so I support this law, and I want more programs, certain solutions for both pills and cell phones to work, that we have as little opportunity as possible to incodise the citizens, and that we give them as much information as possible, but I'm skeptical, I'm skeptical of whether it's going to be a government that's in a position to do it because it's usually angry when e-mails leak like the Borg affair from Agrokor, so it's a problem for them, so it's not to know what's behind the grains being solved, not to get any more complete information. I want once again, for the third time, to deliberately highlight this topic that the media hear it in Croatia is not on the market for tetanus vaccines, the minister did not provide elementary health care for our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126287	We have four replicas. First is colleague Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126288	Thank you, President HS. Comrade Maras, you said that this law is a good tool for citizens to have quality and publicly available information and quality public administration, but according to one project that has been done by research still over 80% of state bodies, bodies in regional and local self-government are asking our citizens to bring the document physically, means to me still, with all these efforts and with this law that is good and good tools, we ask our citizens to bring documents, to spend their money and time, and what is also bad for Croatia, that 47% of citizens face false news daily. While in the EU, the average is about 37% and the government is not behind it, it is even leaking information from state bodies, and it is the journalists and editors who blame it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126289	Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126290	Thank you, dear colleague Vlaovic. You said something that's known to everyone, so we can, we adopt these laws of various kinds, we have colleagues who have passed the world, lived in developed democracies, here's Ambassador Kovac who was in Berlin, knows how things work, but if we adopt laws, that doesn't mean that they will live in practice, there must be political will. There must be a desire for our citizens to get information, not to entertain citizens with fake news, and that every time there's a scandal, it parallels a certain fake news to cover it. As we have now had the case at the plane, in Agrokor, it is constantly being produced and I have the feeling that there is even some advice for fake news that works in Prime Minister Plenkovic's office, meaning that it is only doing so to place certain topics in the public, to cover the affairs that are happening in the government of HSZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126291	Another replica, a colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126292	Thank you. Comrade Maras, again you had a need to cast gray-black colors. The situation in the public administration is not as bad as it shows, so our e-Citizen project, you probably don't know, was declared the best public administration digitisation project in Europe, and international experts from 19 countries, 25 independent experts named it the best public administration digitalisation project in Europe. It's cheese with a few holes and it's a fact, but it's not as black or as black as you said. It's not good to generalize because this much ink isn't really a real situation. The real situation that we have good things, that we have bad things that we're working on to make them better, so it's not this black. And as for tetanus, yesterday my six-year-old girl received a DTP vaccine. Diphtheria, tetanus, polymilitis, which is clearly what he has.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126293	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126294	Then it's a happy circumstance that your doctor's so, ask some of the other municipalities, yeah, well, I didn't make it up, I checked out 3, 4 places there's no such thing, there's a shortage on the market, so who's getting along, I don't know where your little girl's going, but that's not the point of one getting along, but that's the point. And I thank you for your commendation because what you said is not a new thing, it happened during the government of Zoran Milanovic, that award, is, is, is, so thank you very much for following and for noticing that award, probably your colleague Pavić can especially thank you because he was in charge of it at the time, so I am glad that you note that at the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic there were good things and I can of course only agree with you there, right? I'm sorry that only the pace did not continue in that direction as it was then but slowed significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126295	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126296	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I am very glad that you will support this law, but I am extremely sorry that you turned your debate in a completely different direction into something that has nothing to do with this law, so you used it to collect cheap political points. As for these governments and persons with disabilities, don't worry, I would be extremely happy if the movement of persons with disabilities had such cooperation with the government in which you were minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126297	Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126298	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Lukacic, for you cheap political points, for me to solve the problem of fellow citizens, so it's very important for me to tell you here. Well, I can't keep my mouth shut if a citizen talks to me and says he can't get a tetanus vaccine. So how can I not say it? I mean, let's try to understand me, so I can't do it because I need to have consideration for HDZ right now, it's more important to me that this problem is solved than whether HDZ will be commended or not. It may not be for you, but it's for me. And as the relationship with the disabled is mentioned, it is seen from the accompanying, here is the President of the Parliament's success in making another pay phone here, which is a temporary solution, if we're going to show the HDZ relationship on this example, then we'd better not show it at all. We have a lot of our people who unfortunately can't solve their problems, it's a shame we have two speakers, here's the next time there's a debate on behalf of the club, I'm going to talk to a pay phone that's meant for you because I don't want to share it that way in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126299	Come on, please, let's not. Let's move on and hold on, move on to something else and stick to the subject. Mr. Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126300	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you are in your presentation, as Mrs. Marass said. Lukačić, a lot of things were said at least about the Law itself, so you also mentioned the Oil and the transparency of these negotiations that are now being held with potential investors in Uljanik. Well, you were the minister in the government who was in charge of crafts and the economy and surely that part of those problems occurred at the time, but you were as the minister who was in charge of such a sensitive issue in the economy, you should have known that these negotiations certainly cannot be conducted in front of the public if we wanted them to succeed. Therefore, these are potential private investors and we need to take care of both their interests and those negotiations that are sensitive we want to achieve, this government and the minister want to achieve this by choosing the best investor to solve the problems of the oilers that have been emerging for many years, and I say 4 years in the creation of these problems you have participated as Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126301	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126302	Thank you very much. You were unconscious, basically, saying what the problem was, no. So we have to lead, you said, we have to take care of their interests, the interests of those who now secretly want to buy these companies, and we don't even know who they are or what their intentions are. Well, the problem with this HDZ government is that they're only taking interest in teams that are now undercover in the negotiations, as they were taking care of the coverts in Agrokor yesterday, as they were taking care of the 90's secrets the day before yesterday. So that's your problem, you don't realize that citizens have the right to know what's going to happen, that workers have the right to know who's buying, what's going to be their perspective and what are the plans. As for that, it's your basic problem and be conscious. So I don't want you bad now, I tell you to wake up, it's not yours to take care of and protect the interests of those who want to earn, but you protect the interests of those who want to work, that's the point, that's the whole point of the story. Otherwise, don't attack your colleague. coalition partner Vrdoljak, he was directly [[Intruder: Time]] responsible, responsible for [[You're out of time.]] Don't attack him [[/Intruder: Your time is up.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably, probably... [[/Intruder: Third time, there's a reminder.]] You said five seconds, it hasn't been five seconds yet. [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Mr. Maras' warning, note, write down the warning and sit down]] You said five more seconds [[Intruder: Please sit down]] No, I don't. [[/Intruder: Would you like another reminder?]] But don't act like it for five seconds and so be it. [[Then sit down, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126303	It is now up to the Secretary of State of the Central State for the Development of the Digital Society, Mr Bernard Gršić, who will have the final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126304	Dear Vice-President, honourable parliamentary deputies and respected parliamentary deputies, only briefly at the end of the presentation of this final draft of the law. So, the wish of this Law is that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be involved in digital society, that the contents provided by the public administration should be adapted to persons with disabilities and to all persons benefiting from the use, information, information provided by public sector bodies. I must stress that during the construction of this Act, the Central State Office as the holder of this Act, the expert working group and the professional adoption of this Law has also spent several educations or participated in several educations, even though we have organised a round table on accessibility and I must say that, therefore, I, as a person with no disability or at least not aware of that, when you come into contact with persons who have difficulty in using digital technologies, then you can only safely and with reality see what the problems they are facing. So this Law aims to remove such problems and challenges that digital society today puts before all citizens for such users of digital society. And of course, cooperation requires all institutions, especially those that have the greatest knowledge and best in their life experience, which are disabled, can articulate those obstacles that exist in digital society. Here, that would be all of me in the closing statement, thank you all for the debate and a warm welcome, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126305	Thank you, too. No, Maras had it first, Mr. Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126306	Thank you very much. Here's a question for the secretary of state, he said here, which I agree with, that he wants more and more citizens involved. I want to know why and whether he thinks it's a problem that in one system which, in my opinion, is one of the key to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is health, that there are more, I would say, applications that would inform citizens and in this way certain availability, for example, that people know when there is a shortage of tetanus vaccine, as it is now in the Republic of Croatia, that this problem is being solved. So, is it possible to do such a thing and whether the minister to whom the public health system works as efficiently as possible should go in that direction, try to make applications that would give citizens a more accessible service when they do something, not go to a doctor, and that the tetanus vaccine is gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126307	Thank you, too. Mr. Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126308	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, I must say that this was a very good and constructive debate all along, unfortunately, until my colleague Maras came forward, so he took the construction out of it. But why I answered, to repeat again, digitization is, colleagues and colleagues, a path that we all need to go together, and we all go together, and that's the way to the success of this country and this society. And we'll be successful if we're really honest together on that trip. And to repeat once again, to say what I received and the warning today, all the preconditions to be successful on that path we have, the technical preconditions and everything else is still just a matter for us to agree on properly, as far as the techniques are concerned by the famous system that is mentioned here and many times mentioned and a really perfectly enough tool to be able to endure and drive everything that needs to be done in that fundamental space, and everything else is still on us and it's up to us to agree, agree and go together. We've had in this country [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's a sentence I apologize, had one consensus [[Thank you, thank you.]] which was the road to the EU this is an opportunity for another. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126309	Okay, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126310	The following will be a statement on the amendments Final proposal of the Act on the Accessibility of Networks and Program Solutions for the launch of public sector body arrangements, second reading, P.Z.E. No. The 409th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's debate is closed, amendments have been submitted by the Committee on Information and Media and the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. I would ask the proposing's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, it will be the Secretary of State of the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, the respected Bernard Gršić. I'm asking you a little silence to hear what's said. First amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126311	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs. We believe that the best results in terms of the application of this law to target groups, i.e. persons with various forms of disability, can be achieved in a direct relationship, i.e. partnership with these joint groups, not some other groups. The proposed amendment opens up the possibility of a partner being someone else, for example another organisation, civil society, which does not necessarily need to gather groups targeted by this law, so I remain in the law to state that it is a blood national organisation of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126312	So you don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126313	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126314	On behalf of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the respected representative Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126315	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126316	Thank you. The next amendment is the amendment of the Alliance of Independent Lists, first amendment to the number 1 of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126317	The amendment is not accepted. So the amendment is the same content as before, I can repeat the argument, if necessary, is the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126318	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126319	Since the committee has agreed to this amendment, I do not know why an amendment has been withdrawn, which the entire committee stands for if the government does not accept. I think it was a correct colleague, that you allowed the others to make that amendment and then the parliamentary representatives to vote on that amendment. Is the government in charge of the Croatian Parliament here and if the Government refuses anything, the board has proposed, you withdraw it on behalf of the board. So the entire board agreed that this amendment and the proposal was good, and you only once again showed that you're a simple handlifter, to come here on Fridays and raise your hands as Andrej Plenkovic tells you, hoping for some function you might get, and that's that. For me, it's totally unacceptable. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Gmroe, you are reading about the amendment.]] The amendment was explained, i.e., by a representative of the Government, why we do not accept the amendment. And we've put in the amendment, why we're looking for this, and besides, the entire board has agreed to that. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126320	Thank you. Amendment number two of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126321	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, taking into account the regulatory practices of the EU Member States, which implement the provisions of the Directive in national legislation, it has been observed in relation to the European Commission's reporting, that it is common practice, that reports are submitted by the central authorities of the state administration rather than by independent supervisory authorities, and in this respect it is proposed that the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society be entrusted with information provided by the Commissioner for Information and is in line with the Commissioner for Information.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126322	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126323	Therefore, since this final draft of the law provides for the powers of the Commissioner for Information, to monitor the coherence of the networks and software solutions for public sector mobile devices, with accessibility requirements, and to monitor the implementation of this law, and the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the development of the digital society takes steps to facilitate the application of accessibility requirements to other types of networks and software solutions for mobile devices, we consider it necessary to maintain the independence of reporting to the Commissioner for Information, to give the European Commission, with the opinion and data of the central authority responsible for the development of the digital society, which is an integral part of the report to the European Commission, so we reject this position of the Government and ask for a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126324	And the third amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126325	The third amendment is not accepted. The final proposal for a law states that the supervision is carried out by the Commissioner for Information and that the provisions of a specific law governing the right to access information are properly applied to supervision. The provisions of the Law on the right to access information shall elaborate on a detailed manner of work of the inspector and his or her rights and duties, which make it clear that the inspector may order certain measures to be taken to remove irregularities or deficiencies and to order the supervised body to correct them within a certain period of time. It follows that this proposal already covers the possibility of such behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126326	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126327	So we don't agree with this argument at all. This possibility of preventive action should be more clearly formulated so that it could be preventively and educationally acted on by the authorities that the corrections mean perceived deficiencies and that they do not go immediately with monetary penalty. So here we are looking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126328	Final proposal of the Act on the Accessibility of Networks and Program Solutions for Public Sector Movement Devices, second reading, P.Z. No. 409. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists. We have agreed on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, so the amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media has been accepted, the other is not accepted, or pardoned, is not accepted, but has not been withdrawn, the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and we must vote on it, so please let us vote. I find that it has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for a law on the accessibility of network sites and software solutions for mobile devices of the public sector body, please vote. I find that most of the votes 108 FOR and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Accessibility of Networks and Software Solutions for Public Sector Movement Devices.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126329	We move to the second item of the agenda: The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Does the representative or the representative of the applicant wish to give an additional explanation? We have the Secretary of State here at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of Ms. Nikola Brnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126330	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives, and allow me to introduce you to the draft of the Law on Railways, which is here today in the first reading. The relevant Law on Railways regulates, inter alia, the conditions for the provision of rail transport, railway services markets, rail infrastructure management and access conditions to infrastructure, the principles and procedures applicable to the determination of rail service compensation and the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity. The European rail policy aims at the sustainable development of the European economy through the establishment of a single European railway space and the opening of the rail market. So it's about harmonising with the 4th railway package, harmonising with the technical and steering column. Directive 2370/2016 and one Regulation 2338/2016 shall be transposed under the steering column. The Directive concerns the opening of a market for domestic rail transport services of passengers and rail infrastructure management, and the Regulation concerning the opening of a market for domestic rail transport services of passengers which prescribes the conditions for the liberalisation of passenger rail transport. Achieving the objective of opening the rail market or opening the domestic rail transport market of passengers is achieved through only amendments to the legislative framework for the management of railway infrastructure. First of all, the establishment of rules on the independence of the infrastructure manager. The infrastructure manager is now free to choose. The rule of independence means between different organisational models, today we are in horizontal integration, allowing fully vertical integration by making it clear how and under what conditions any different way of organization can occur. In this way, to ensure the impartiality of the infrastructure manager in its capacity to perform its own and basic, basic functions, traffic management and maintenance planning. The allocation of rights also open access to rail infrastructure, to all railway undertakings in all EU Member States for the purpose of providing rail transport services again under fair, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions. Introducing a public tender for the award of public service contracts in railways, rail contracts. Therefore, it is important to note that, under Regulation 2338/2016, it is prescribed that the competent authority of a Member State in this case I am talking about the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure may decide directly and award public service contracts for public rail services. Of course, under certain conditions, if the direct allocation is considered justified by the relevant structural and geographical features of the relevant market and network, which means that if the annual range of the network is less than 23 million train km, we can assign a direct PSO contract, each Member State shall be left with its choice. The Republic of Croatia, of course, fulfils the mentioned condition, we have about 15 million train kilometers and we must say that the Republic of Croatia has just signed a public service contract for services of general economic interest for public rail transport and thus limited the right to access passenger services. We do not have to mention further that this way is protected by our national transport operator HZ Passenger transport and the entire network is covered for the next 10 years. In addition, in order to allow passengers to access the information needed to plan travel and purchase tickets within the Union, the railway undertaking providing domestic transport services will participate in the common information system and the system for issuing single tickets to be established by the competent authority. So, the fact that our network is covered, means PSO services, does not mean that if someone else sees a legitimate interest, they cannot report on any other part of the network which, for which HH passenger transport has shown no interest and therefore means all passengers must be provided with travel planning, meaning independently, means the information system and our carriers or other carriers that are on, operated on, means in the area, the territory of the Republic of Croatia, must be harmonised. The common information system and single card system should, of course, be interoperable and not discriminatory. Railway undertakings should contribute to such development of systems that allow for multi-modal and cross-border opportunities by making available, in a non-discriminatory manner and in an interoperable form of all relevant information. It will ensure that such a system does not discriminate between railway undertakings themselves. The bill proposes that the government of the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of long-term planning for the development of the railway system, for the first time, adopt a sectoral strategy for 10 years. As you have met me so far from the rail sectoral strategy as visible in the very state of rail transport we did not have, so it did not exist, it sets out clear objectives and measures in which way and how performance indicators will be implemented and programmes and development of rail transport services, the development of railway infrastructure as well as the management of rail infrastructure itself. Also, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry with the aim of medium-term planning for the development of the railway system, brings for the first time, so far we have had the National Roadmap for the development of railway infrastructure, we also bring the National Roadmap for the management of railway infrastructure and service facilities and the development of rail transport services. Therefore, national plans, unlike the sectoral strategy, are adopted for at least a 5-year period. On the basis of national plans, infrastructure managers, with the agreement of the Ministry and the central body responsible for finance, I am talking about the Ministry of Finance, shall draw up an annual plan for the construction, modernisation, restoration and maintenance of railway infrastructure which must be an integral part of the business plan of the infrastructure manager from art. 20 of this law. Later, the owner of the railway infrastructure concludes for a period of at least 5 years with the infrastructure manager a contract on the management of rail infrastructure on mutual rules and obligations in accordance with the basic principles and parameters set out in Annex 4 to the proposed law. The contract will define performance indicators and improve business monitoring and the realisation of HH Infrastructure plans themselves. It must guarantee financial stability and maintain the business of HZ Infrastructure as infrastructure manager. The infrastructure manager is also obliged to establish an information system that will enable the monitoring of the implementation of projects based on national plans and annual modernisation plan, renovation and maintenance of railway infrastructure and the realisation of investment in railway infrastructure containing all data and documentation on all projects and investments and their final status. Infrastructure managers must allow the ministry continuous access to the IT system to see the state of projects and investments. And what is particularly important is that the legal provisions of the article itself, or the inspection supervision of law enforcement, have been increased by the Hakom regulatory authority, and the inspection tasks are carried out by inspectors who are authorised officers of the regulatory authority. What is important to note is that, through the amendments to this Law on Railways, we want to finally turn the railway to serve our purpose, to serve the development of the Croatian economy and to the benefit of the Croatian society itself and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126331	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Tomislav Lipošchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126332	Thank you, Vice President. Respected State Secretary.../incomprehensible/... with associates. Well, I'm particularly glad that, in fact, through this legislative proposal, the importance of sustainable development is emphasized, in fact, by the rail system and its, we can say, survival in the future, and I think that there is this great role, as you have highlighted exactly the sectoral strategy, and I think that its adoption should be as soon as possible. I would stress here that such a sectoral strategy should be independent of policy, i.e. that it should not be changed with the change in the relationship on the political scene, since it usually leads to a loss of time and money that we unfortunately do not have, and therefore I will also appeal that the deadlines that are related to the making of the rules that define the way we make the design, content and methodology of this sectoral strategy are as short as possible and that we would have a clearly defined strategy as possible and in fact the direction we want to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126333	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126334	So, we've just run for that and the account for the first time, by introducing.../incomprehensible/... a 10-year sectoral strategy, regardless of any changes, changes in the political scene, so we have to have specific sectoral strategies that will be, giving us clear goals. If we know where we are going, then we know how and we will get there, so we have made sure that exactly within a minimum period of time from the entry into force of this law, a sectoral strategy is adopted as quickly as possible within up to about 12 months, then national plans that must be followed and thereafter by a five-year, multi-annual contract with the railway infrastructure manager.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126335	Thank you. I will take the opportunity to welcome all of us together to foreign students and students of the Croaticum study programme at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb, please welcome them with a round of applause. ... We're glad you're with us. [[Applause.]] Let's move on with the replicas. Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126336	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Whether rail infrastructure in the area of corridor 5B, and we know which corridor it is and how significant it was otherwise in the development of the former state economy, especially Croatia should be significant and we know that this railway was put into circulation in 1863. Does this infrastructure satisfy increased transport through the Rijeka port and is it particularly satisfying the transport of fast and efficient goods from the container terminal? We know that reconstruction is done on a partial basis, by shares, which should be completed in 2022, and plans are being made to build a railway line around 2030. Whether construction of the track is related to a plan increase transport of goods or whether or not [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Rijeka port to become port of origin [[Thank you, Mr. Kirin.]] Some big boatman. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] We've heard from each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126337	We're not masters of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126338	Here's me thanking you for this question. So what you are now mentioning are the former pan-European corridors, 5B, by entering the EU, they become an integral part of the TNT network and are talking about the Mediterranean Corridor. The Mediterranean corridor for the Republic of Croatia is the most important, if I may say, corridor and most important direction. Of course, of the strategic interest of all governments should be from different, so this is not the first study that has been done now, studies began 10 and more years ago to work on the justification of building a low-level railway. And it should be a strategic measurement of all of us. So when you look at the existing capacities, the existing performances of the railway, when you put into account how much it costs you and why our Rijeka direction is not competitive, it is precisely, among other things, about the characteristics of our existing route. That is why this government is the goal and is put into the transport strategy of development, the transport strategy of our 2017 to 2030 emphasis on the development of the Mediterranean direction, which includes with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126339	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126340	I thank the esteemed vice president, distinguished colleagues of Brnjak, the Republic of Croatia has been wandering through the rail system ever since the application of the EU directives, and is not doing very well in all of this. From the division of railways in 2005 to today, what was to be done was not done. At first, it was not understood how the railways should be divided, so the concepts were mixed, said that we were a corporation, we were never a corporation, from the beginning it was the maintenance method of the organisation, the management of the railway system, today, we have separated completely railway companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, HZ infrastructure, passenger transport... Tow trains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm wondering, is there any way we can think about, maybe going back in the way of the organization, of this whole system in the form of some kind of vertical integrated society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126341	State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126342	I couldn't agree more than once, and I said it publicly, in 2005, a disastrous decision was made in the division of companies, in 2012, an even worse decision to shut down HZ holding, so you removed the head that manages the hands and feet of our companies. You left the company to think for themselves, without any coordination between them. What is now through this proposal of this law, right through the sectoral strategy, we need to come up with this solution, in which way and how it is now through the law, means it is possible, whether to go in vertical and in what form of vertical integration. This should be done on the basis of professional bases, i.e. through the sectoral strategy itself, to come up with this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126343	Thank you. Mr. Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126344	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, the last sentence in your presentation was that your wish for the railway to improve and benefit Croatian citizens, I absolutely agree with you and it really should be. My question is, will we, by privatizing the infrastructure, allow it to benefit our citizens. For example. in the EU, and especially in the UK, where this is exactly how privatisation of infrastructure management was extremely bad, because the private investor did not invest anymore and maintained good enough infrastructure. And when we talk about it, can you answer me, what part of the infrastructure, will be given to the privates, are those positions, are those stations, is that a railroad? I say, I agree with you in the part where I said, it should benefit the Croatian citizens, and whether it will be. Well, here, if you can answer me specifically this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126346	So there's absolutely no talk of HZ infrastructure going into privatisation, so it wasn't said anywhere, or going in that direction. What you could conclude from those speeches, that you should be and serve your citizens. In this way, unfortunately, the former government has just adopted a disastrously bad plan in 2015, a national investment plan in rail infrastructure, a printer of 17.2 billion, that will be investment in infrastructure and without a financial budget, which will support it. So we didn't have any funds in the budget secured. We have just launched a revision of the national programme, on realistic grounds, to make planning, how we need what is realistic in our goals, which is in our plans, and when we know how much our plans will cost, then we can also know how much it will cost. It's being launched right now, but in no way are we talking about privatising HZ infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126347	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary and Associates, here is another law, which has only come here, that we may bless it, because we must comply with EU gains and what does that mean? You Croats must liberalize, it is the most wanted word in recent years, which all Croatian governments loved, liberalise this railway transport, as you have liberalised banks, telecoms, and everything else, it will be better immediately. And what the Croatian railway looks like, it's driving slower and slower, less and less knows where it's going, more and more creating losses, and that's a picture of the Croatian government, and it's working as well. Therefore, the railway was never important to past governments, while 85% were invested in roads, the railway was thrown into nowhere. We change Croatia, when it participates in the government, we will turn the story completely, but we will modernly organize our railway network and we will know what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126349	Mr. Lovrinović's time, time. Here you go, Mrs. President. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126350	As far as the strategies are concerned, the first strategy was adopted in 1995 as regards the railway sector. It is clearly stated in that strategy that 40% should go investment in the road sector, 25% in the railway, 25% also in the maritime and internal navigation, 5% in air traffic, I can refer it all to you. But what happened? Since '95. By 2015 it was very simple to invest in road infrastructure, and it happened that we had invested in the road in 85%. Following that maintenance in the railway infrastructure, it also took about 82km per year of maintenance of the railway infrastructure, and it happened that we were 42, and now we burned at 20km of annual maintenance in the railway infrastructure. That is why, that is why, through this law, through these solutions, through the strategy itself, through the two national compliance plans with the Ministry of Finance, the budgetary means, we are avoiding, that is, we are doing guidelines for the development of the railway system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126351	Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Goddess Macar, no throwing, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126352	Thank you very much. You stated, among other things, that this law was passed in order to comply with EU rules. In particular, you pointed out a part of the investment in the information system where if anyone else reports from the carrier that they are transporting in the Republic of Croatia, they will also be able to sell tickets for them. That's what I'm saying for reasons because there have been shifts in ticket sales with us in the Republic of Croatia since the annual, monthly application cards. However, if you plan on developing and improving yourself because we do now, you can buy but without discount, without anything and as it was introduced 2.5, 3 years ago, such... There's no upgrade to that system or anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126353	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126354	Well, thank you. This is why the reform of the railway sector didn't start today, it didn't start yesterday, it started since the 1990s, when the ZTP society of Zagreb was with 40,000 workers and now the reform of the railway sector now refers to 3 laws, the Law on Railways, the Law on Security and Interoperability and the Law on Integrated Transport of Passengers. And right through this last law that's about integrated transport, the passenger should make this possible exactly as you're saying right now, means that we choose, that we have one card, one tactful timetable, that we allow users to benefit from the rail system, or that the railway is the backbone of a land transport based on a bus transport system. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126355	Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126356	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it is a shame for Croatia not to implement the national construction and investment programme in the railways, it is a shame that we do not have a sectoral strategy and it is good that you said that you will finally go that way. The result of such policies is that we have state railways that are in poor condition, that the number of passengers falls, that traffic on them falls, that we have as a result of that and a decline in industrial production, over 6%. So my question and my proposal for a future national investment plan is to consult the HUP, craft chamber, HGK because we can only build industrial growth and development with them and the railways must be there in a lever and it must not be allowed to close the Pleternica-Pozega-Capela railway or a sub-level railway that should give leverage to the development of industry in Slavonia and not to record the decline in production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126357	I'd just...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126358	Please, please, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126359	Thank you. I would just like to say that according to the current plan adopted in 2015, unfortunately it was not possible to implement it because the funds were not secured in the Ministry of Finance. When you don't have the funds set up at the Ministry of Finance, you can't even implement anything from that plan. That's why we've been involved in this audit for the first time in the Ministry of Finance and this national plan was adopted in 2015, don't forget [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126360	... No throwing, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Young Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126361	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I hope that a really new law will bring investment in infrastructure and in rail transport directly to the Koprivnica-Osjek railway line, as far as the crossings are closed, as close as they are... The railroad... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] how many other colossals have been abolished that the infrastructure at the abolished railway stations is in a catastrophic state and certainly passengers passing by here when they see which infrastructure is in a really bad state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said they invested in road traffic, unfortunately neither the Podravska highway which is the same and the road bad, means the northwestern part of Croatia with the eastern part of Croatia and the road and rail roads are much more logistic, and I hope this new law improves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126363	Thank you. So, you know that we share, you have core and compact network, the core network should be completed in 2030 completely when we talk about rail infrastructure and the compact network of railways by 2050. For this very reason the European Commission is going with a new proposal for a regulation,... The regulation on the stop shop that should help and facilitate all Member States is not the only one in Croatia and makes it easier for all EU Member States to implement infrastructure major projects themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126364	We're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Oh, yes, I'm sorry, my fault, Mr. Bull was looking for a word, probably looking for a break, please. ... I've seen it before, yeah, my bad. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go. And Mr. Bull let them be replicas first. ... What replica of him? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No more replicas. ... We'll allow it, Mr. Bull? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Come on, come on. ... We've noticed it, but we're all sinful, right, here you go. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126365	Well, I'd just like to say that on this opening presentation of the State Secretary, I hope that this Law on Railways will be the beginning of a restructuring programme for Croatian railways, why? Because Croatian railways, along with Croatian shipbuilding, were the largest consummation of state guarantees that were ultimately charged from the state budget and it would be good to see that it was close to 30 billion in the past 28 years. Also, in the last 4 years, 20 limes that were once issued for Croatian highways, are now being paid off the Croatian railway and at an annual level of about 500 million kuna. The second thing, the Ministry of Finance does not provide funding, the funds are provided by this High House because this House brings the budget and how the Government proposes, so this position will never be in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Finance are funds for the protested guarantees, just as I repeat, as we are talking today about the protested guarantees of shipbuilding, so tomorrow we will also talk to the protested guarantees of Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126366	Thank you. State Secretary, please, would you like to respond? ... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you. State Secretary, please, would you like to respond? ... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Now he's got the word, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126367	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to point out. to see and to send a public message that all these legal gains of the EU written in this law are simply copying and meeting some of the criteria that they have given us as an obligation to enter as a document. The current fact is respected secretaries and fellow Shucker, the current fact is that our railways are best represented here by the Minister of Tourism because they are as if at the time of the Wild West. In this way, we can present Croatia and not that you brought on paper without any measures, you passed this law, such as harmonising some directive with the EU. Well, you will come faster by bicycle from Split to Osijek than by rail. Every time there's a transport, any passenger transport, it literally shuts down. The only thing we have infrastructure preserved enough to make Western films because it wasn't even in the Wild West. It's a fact and a truth. And all of these nice-moved laws, lipo framed in Brussels or in the case of teleoperators now privatized by EVO TV, which is suitable for a foreign teleoperator. The same is true in this example. They need financial frameworks if we're going to have railroads. It's empty in this, there's nothing other than you copied what you signed and you're not going to get the secretaries through it. Every year it is slower and slower and it comes from Split to Zagreb. That's all we've gotten since we joined the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126368	Mr. Bull, thank you very much. And someone else is asking for a break? No, I don't. Break till 11.50. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I am opening a debate, first of all by clubs, Mr. Pero Ćosic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126370	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Madam Secretary of State with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a new draft law on railways in first reading with comprehensive solutions, the proposed legislation is in line with the EU acquis in order to ensure the achievement of a single European railway space, and solutions are proposed to improve quality in passenger transport to railways. The proposed law regulates rules relating to transport and infrastructure management services, to the independence of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, to the granting of the suspension of licences for rail services and compensation, to non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure and rail services, and to the legal status of railway infrastructure. It is also intended to remove remaining legal administrative and technical barriers, strengthen the competitiveness of rail transport, from other modes of transport. The growth of rail transport unfortunately did not move forward with the development of other modes of transport, both in the Republic of Croatia and in the EU area, we heard something about it before. By observing the historic or cross-section of the Croatian railway system during the period of work or transport of passengers and cargo. It is evident that in the early 1990s, the railways carried more than 40 million passengers, in 2010, that number grew to and reach 69.5 million and it has since recorded a continuous decline to that extent that less than 20 million passengers transported by rail were recorded in 2017. In the segment of freight transport in the early 1990s, the railways carried 39 million tonnes of goods and in 2010, the number fell to 12.2 million and the trend of stagnation continues to this day. Furthermore, 90% of railway networks form one-way railways, which largely restricts access and the transport power of individual railways with only 36% of the rails is electrified. The commercial speed of trains on our railways is 34 km per hour, while passenger trains travel somewhat faster, at a speed of 47.82km while freight trains travel 21.57km per hour. In the last 20 years, there has been a negative trend of speed on our railway while in Europe and worldwide this trend is vice versa, and in this segment of traffic speed is constantly growing and here are already serious competition and air transport on the intercity lines. All mentioned as an outdated traffic control and signalling system and the position of the Republic of Croatia in the network of European corridors indicates a problem in the railway sector. The situation on the railways in Croatia is the result of considerable damage suffered by the railway sector in the Homeland War and the fact that the same time has not been developed or updated in a good way for too long and because of our late entry into the EU and the possibility or better said inability to use EU funds. For these reasons, it is clear that an urgent modernisation of all rail transport and related infrastructure is needed. The development of rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is considered extremely important for economic social growth as well as for the interstate integration of the Republic of Croatia to achieve strategic objectives and positioning Croatia in a network of European corridors. In order to integrate the rail system into a competitive market, it is necessary to improve its efficiency taking into account the specific characteristics of the railway industry. The fourth railway package and, in particular, its steering or market pillar, the European Commission is seeking to achieve a single European railway space. The Republic of Croatia is taking over this proposed law which should contribute to the further development of rail transport as well as credible alternatives to other modes of transport. The main objectives are to establish a single European railway space to complete the internal rail market and simplify the European legislative framework for the provision of rail transport services. The steering column aims to open the domestic rail transport market of passengers, strengthen infrastructure management and increase the transparency of financial flows. I am convinced that the announced objectives will bring Croatian citizens back to trains and protect their rights throughout the EU because rail passenger transport services should benefit all citizens, both the Republic of Croatia and the EU. Europe wants smart policies to connect the East with the West so that the current fragmented transport network becomes truly European and the creation of a single railway space would allow social and territorial mobility. We know that the Adriatic ports are the deepest in the EU territory and are suitable for the shortest route for goods coming from the Middle and Far East and this depends on us whether these goods will be transported further to Europe by our or some other railways. In order to do so, the changes that must be achieved are set targets and are part of the proposed law. By proposed law, the granting of open access rights to all railway undertakings from EU Member States opens the market for domestic passenger transport services to railways. The legislative framework for the management of railway infrastructure is further amended through various organisational models. The legislative framework is amended above all, by establishing rules on the independence of the infrastructure manager by introducing the concept of basic functions, and by defining a vertically integrated company relating to the concept of control, not ownership, which means that the proposed changes allow the infrastructure manager to choose freely between different organisational models, meaning, from structural independence to vertical integration, by continuing their basic function, certainly, the decision-making on the allocation of common routes, and by fixing and charging fees for the use of infrastructure. As for the organization of Croatian Railway Companies, perhaps you should consider the possibility of establishing Holding because I believe that such a model could contribute to the visibility, strength and efficiency of the Croatian railway sector because we can see it from neighbours and such a model is also the Slovenians and Austrians and Italians, French, German and such a model must have strengthened their railway sector. The establishment of a common information system, an integrated card system, will enable passengers to access the necessary information and facilitate the planning of travel across the EU. The Single Information System will also provide for the collection of the necessary data for the production of strategic documents, the monitoring of the rail market and rail transport services, and the monitoring of the data to be supplied to the European Commission. Also, it is proposed to introduce the principle of public competition for the award of public service contracts in rail transport and here, you can see on the Croatian website, Croatian passenger transport that in December 2018 a public service contract was signed for services of general economic interest in public rail transport in the Republic of Croatia, which will ensure the continuity of the provision of passenger rail transport by 2028. Based on the signed Treaty, HZ Passenger transport will be a public rail transport service, meaning from 1.1.2019 to 31 December 2028, and during this ten-year period a total of 4 billion kuna from the state budget will be provided for them. In fact, it is the Treaty which is in conformity with the European regulations that open the markets for the services of domestic rail transport of passengers which are allowed directly to negotiate services with a national carrier, but only until the end of 2018, namely, with the effect of this Regulation from 1.1.2019 of the Treaties which are valid, which may be valid for a maximum period of 10 years, remain, and after that, market competition will go to public competition for all carriers within the EU. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided for the possibility of long-term public transport planning, as well as investments that are necessary, such as the restoration of the rolling stock and other investment in information and similar, if we know that such large investments do not suffer ad hoc contracts, these are large investments and therefore long-term contracts are needed. The proposed Law also provides for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a strategy for the development of the rail system in the Republic of Croatia, which will provide a strategic basis for all future rail sector projects, which will speed up the preparation of projects covering the strategy and increase the likelihood of their funding from the EU Funds or other financial sources. Accordingly, it must be based on policies and strategic documents of the EU and of the Republic of Croatia, and give an answer to the question of how to strengthen rail transport and achieve European trends, and whether there is a possibility of further stronger positioning in the strategic pan-European transport routes. This government of the Republic of Croatia demonstrates its responsibility in achieving the objectives of improving the quality of rail transport and rail infrastructure management services and shows responsibility for the development of the railway sector as a whole. Realising such a strategic plan would also ensure a long-term perspective for entrepreneurs and craftsmen who are linked to such systems, which would also contribute to a more stable rhythm of the Croatian economy. This proposal should therefore be seen as another step further which will certainly contribute to increasing the competitiveness of rail transport and result in a positive impact on economic developments and investments and will therefore support the HDZ representative club's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126371	Now it's Emil Daus, who will speak in front of the IDS-PGS-RI club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am reporting for debate on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Club on the subject of the proposed proposal of the Law on Railways because I can no longer watch what is done or is not working on the Istrian railways. By the terms of the Istrian railway, I mean the part Buzet-Pula, but also Lupoglav – Stallium. About how important it is to all Croatian governments so far, the best tells the fact that the stone is the cornerstone for the construction of Istria, which will connect the Istrian railway with the rest of the country, the first President of the Republic of Croatia, Franjo Tudjman, laid down in 1993, has long grown on the slopes of Ciceria. I'm afraid it's still going that way. Namely, the document again states that the government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a strategy for the development of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia. The sectoral strategy that has already been discussed, and based on this Sector Strategy, the Government brings first, the National Roadmap for the development of railway infrastructure and second, the National Roadmap for Railway Infrastructure Management and the development of rail transport services. It is not good that such strategic documents are brought only by the Government and the Resort Ministry, but they must be part of a broad public debate, from the lowest levels to the debate itself, here in HS, then everyone would probably know what the real state of the railway is and would help their participation in the debates to solve the problem and the real state of the railway in Istria is the closest said disastrous. We all know that the cheapest transport of goods is by sea by boat, and on land it's a railroad. All modern, developed countries, from this very development, invest in the development of port and railway infrastructure. And that's why in the first part of the exposure, I'm going to connect the maritime, rail transport, because it's all connected. And what do we have? The natural phenomenon of the Rijeka port, deep inland, deep gas, protected from major weather disasters, small amplitudes of the sea, amongst the nearest distances from Europe's larger industrial cities. So, all preconditions for being the main Adriatic port, and to specialize in certain thirds is one of Europe's main ports. One of the smaller ports in the entire Rijeka port is Luka Bršica, for those who do not know, on the eastern coast of Istria, which for decades has been the main port for cattle and wood traffic. And now in every country that holds onto itself, that port would be connected with a modern railroad, where long compositions of trains would carry large quantities of cargo, on much more favourable terms than many trucks and haulers would do on the roads. Even when we add that to the Indoarian area of Picen in the immediate vicinity, which can be connected with a short track, we get an incredible development potential that does not see the border. And what do we have in nature? For 10 years, it has been precisely 10 years since the end of 2018 between Lupoglava and Kršan, the trees and other vegetation-enriched shares in Podpišen, it seems that soon Croatian forests will have a railroad and nothing is being done. If we switch from this track to that other Istrian part of Buzet Pula, we are still talking about freight traffic, any country that holds to its economic development, it would also put it under priority because of industrial zones in Vodnjan, Pula, but also other areas along the track, from Lupoglav, Cerovova, Pazin, Kanfanara. Well, there used to be extra colossians, which came into those industrial zones, and with us in 2012. HH Holding is shut down and HH tow trains are divided into passenger traffic... and this slowly leads to the fact that in 2013, all freight traffic in Istria is being put in place due to the increased operating costs of the so-developed companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Passenger rail transport in the most developed Croatian tourist region is a special topic, with the modernisation of the railway in Istria, a major positive shift in passenger transport would take place, especially in tourist arrivals. You can imagine how much this would reduce the pressure of traffic jams at the border, but also on road roads, which greatly help in their preservation, regular maintenance, but on the other hand and the rentability of the railroad itself. Not to mention how much modern, fast trains would increase the traffic of the local population, in terms of public transport, and the preservation of the environment does not need to be wasted. You see, an anecdote, when I sent a friend who went to Europe with a jir, a message where he was responding, here I am riding a Swiss train 300 km/h and surfing in the meantime. And then I remember our railroad in Istria, because they go about 100 meters under the house where I live, where the train at some crossings slows down to 30 km/h, of course I'm not talking about that the Internet signal doesn't even exist on some parts of the stock. So, we are talking about 2019 on an EU member state and its most developed region. And speaking of road crossings across the railway line, then I must mention a great slowdown in solving the same problems. Well, primarily given the untransparent crossings without a bumper, a semi-defender, whose resolution has been pending for years. One example in the town of Pazin, on the state road D66 location Razelj, where for 5 years since the beginning of the work, which has not yet been completed fully, and the construction of the entire railway from Ivaca to Pula during Austro-Hungarian drinking for more than 140 years lasted only 3 years when there were no machines when it was working on hand. Not to mention crossings that pose a direct danger to the lives of traffic participants, some black spots can be solved by round roads, some are already informed of the minister but today it is not a topic, so I will not mention it, but what I still have to mention is certainly the general devastation of the railway itself in Istria due to insufficient regular maintenance of the rail belt, resulting in growth and thus a weaker transparency and threatened safety of traffic participants. And certainly there's something else I have to warn you about, diesel motor furniture is older and unreliable, there's a large number of malfunctions, and especially in summer due to overheating, the number of passengers is reduced due to uncertainty, passengers don't know if the train will come at all, and delays are regular. Train only drives those who have to, mostly school students, because they don't have anywhere near another public transport facility. There are generations here, which surely remember the former arenas, the green train, which arrived from Pula to Zagreb via Slovenia, over Ljubljana for just over 4 hours, then 30, 40 years ago. Today on the train Pula Zagreb, with a bus that must be, because there is no tunnel, I said, '93. is only the cornerstone, therefore, with the bus between Lupoglava and Rijeka, this link, from Pula to Zagreb for a minimum of 9 hours, should be reached through HZ. Instead of investing in the track, a speed limit is introduced that extends driving time, so that from year to year time travels more and more. I am aware, of course, that this law should regulate a small part of what I have mentioned, but because it is done in another point, which is the name of the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by the law, and the consequences that the law will result, among other things it is said that the government and the resolution ministries are obliged to adopt strategic documents, with my remark being repeated, that the documents must be adopted by the Parliament, I felt obliged in front of the citizens of Istria and Primor, who I represent here in the highest representative body of the government in the Republic of Croatia, to point out the problem of the catastrophic state of the railways in Istria, and particularly the traffic connections of the Bršica port as industrial zones. Because, you know, by passing the Law on Railways, we may have a high-quality law, but we still won't have a railroad in Istria. And how successful it is to read in strategic documents, in transport, in Croatia, the rail construction plan in Istria does not exist even in many years of plans. So here behind this pay phone, I ask the question, when you think about starting with the reconstruction and modernisation of the railway in Istria, the Pula Divač and Lupoglav shares... and when Istria will finally begin to experience itself as part of the Republic of Croatia and through investment in it, not only through the incomes that leave it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because investment in the modern railway in Istria will return multiple times, believe me, to the whole country through the transport of goods and services through the economy, tourism and conservation of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126373	Thank you, too. Now Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash will speak in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126374	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a first reading of the Law on Railways. It's about one thing, it's one of those laws that I call technical law, it's a technical law with certain provisions, and we can discuss a little bit about what might improve or what to define but the basic theme is the theme of the railroad. The main issue raised under this law is what is the strategy in Croatia, a development strategy, and this is the strategy of development and infrastructure when it comes to railways. We have, we're going to have one law that's going to be correct, we're going to have some strategic documents that's going to be okay, and then we come to reality. What do we really want with the railroad, do we want to develop it, coffee railroad? What's the element of the development of the railway economy, how much we're going to invest, what do we even want to do? That's the key question. And this law can be passed, we can say we'll have one decent law but let's see in reality and that's the question to be answered. And let's turn around for what other countries are doing. Other countries are developing railways, using it as an economic element, using it as a development of certain parts of the country. The last example that I had of opportunity to see Milan has reached some capacity of its development, no more space to expand but has an extremely large economic potential. There is a city that has the opportunity to expand, it is Bologna and a project that is at the level of the state, which is to develop railways and a fast line of Bologna – Milan where people will live in Bologna, work in Milan. If you have a quality and good rail link that is actually your connection to other EU and European countries, you have no problem living in Karlovac, living in Sisak and working in Graz, for example. These are some distances that are obvious for Europe, let's be honest for Croatia. We have a railroad that still made Hungary for us during Austro-Hungarian times. But we're partially renewing it, but we're not doing it the way we need to. This law should be an incentive to make a strategic decision whether we want the railway, whether we want to use the railway in a way, we also have the port of Rijeka and the container terminal has no reason not to be on the ranch station in Zagreb and hence to be a merger to all other destinations that it needs. This is the way to think, to think that the railway in one part can really be a driver of development. At one point, we decided to build roads. And, of course, those highways and us in terms of using them to make us happy that when we go to Split to get there in 3.5 or standing in four hours, there's no plane much faster when you land, take off, and everything else who's faster. Those roads are also talking about a certain potential. They didn't respond to what they were supposed to be, and that's to develop the economy, develop the character, and then have cheap land, cheap infrastructure, and relatively close to everything else, but that's a series of circumstances that they were. The railroad is potential, the railroad is a possibility, the railroad is something that, but it is looking for a first strategic decision which we will do, as a second continuous investment, as a third it can then produce an appropriate result. And there you have to look at the railroad in terms of the housewives for the whole country, in terms of if we want to develop the potential of the individual part in which you develop, in terms of developing certain counties and certain parts of the city as well. Of course, I always use this pay phone and use the opportunity to speak in the city of Zagreb for the simple reason that I know this problem well, so I can tell you two things. One thing is, a little bit when you're driving any city, look at the abandoned industrial trackways. So when the industry was developed then it was those little trains that drove from one zone to another and we have abandoned industrial trackways. Otherwise, some other cities and abandoned industrial trackways have been put into operation and used for the transport of goods, in general for supplying certain shopping malls. Because what happened? It happened exactly what happened in Zagreb, in certain parts when industry stopped being, the next stage is industrial centres and these abandoned colossians are not in some other cities in the way that grass grows there and we see how grass grows and when you drive around in the car you wonder what now because underneath the tires something passed but they are in the function of supplying the city, in general way, giving new ideas and new visions of the city's functioning. Equally the main station in Zagreb. There is a gentleman who has remained recorded in history as the main designer of the Zagreb city centre even though he graduated from the High Technical School in Graz, Mr Milan Lenuca. It's named after him, so-called. Lenuci's horseshoe, which Zrinjevac kept to you through the Botanical Garden and to the next to HNK, has been at the head of the city's construction office since 1891 or whatever it was called. In 1892 he resigned from his post because he was a dispute that was at that moment insurmountable whether the railway was, therefore, the main station and the railway that was at the level of whether to put it underground or lift it up and then that it would go on so to one viaduct. In 1892, we thank you for asking, in 2019, I am sure that we are now opening this topic to be one of the Bandic Mayor's projects, so that you do not know whether the railway is underground or on the ground, that it might be one project that Mr Bandic would put in his HDZ coalition partner's lap and say here's a project. What am I talking about? So I'm telling you, you guys can shake the road, so you can do something if you go around, so the road can be shaken one way or the other. The road in space permanently changes the space and shape of space. The railroad... I'll just have a few colleagues back there, but okay, It's not a problem they're talking about, but I'd like to hear what they're talking about, so now I don't know if I'm gonna shut up and hear or move on, I'm kidding. [[Yes, please keep your voice down. Please.]] Railway, so the track, you can't go now we're gonna go around this or that a little bit. The track track is a track track, it permanently changes your space, it may be added value but will permanently change the space. It's very important to deal with the railroad at all. And to decide how to shake it. Too many countries through the economic development strategy as their strategies say what they will do with the railway. Whether or not they're going to develop it, cities are talking about it. So I have seen over several projects when it comes to the main station in Zagreb and you are talking about 11 km of rail which should be decided in Zagreb whether to go underground or to go over the country and open up a large space in the city of Zagreb, which is a great potential for you, the main station, Gredelj and everything else. So, what I'm really saying is, we're gonna have the law, we can discuss the action whether 'is the law better or worse. I personally think it's better than what we had before and so the laws should be. Any law should be better than what it should be before but you can put the law in a drawer, you can put the strategy in a drawer and some of the next assembly of Parliament, in some others you might be discussing the law again in a way that the provisions are like this or such but the essential question is, question of all questions, I think we're already late, what are we going to do with the railroad? Are we going to invest, are we going to develop, what are cities going to do with it? It's a fundamental question of all the questions, there's no answer and that's the answer we need to get here. So, no matter how well the secretary of state handles this problem, it would be good if the minister were there. It would be good for the minister to answer that, it would be good if here was Minister Butkovic to decide which way to confuse and come here and defend his law. It would be good for him to come and answer us what policy and what development strategy is and what development strategy Mr. Plenkovic has, what development strategy he has as a resolute minister because let's tell the truth, it is the state secretaries who are implementing, who are organising for politics, which policy at this time corresponds to Minister Butkovic. This is too important a law without him ignoring it because it doesn't matter to him. This law answers, so I don't have any dilemmas at all, we as a club of GLAS and HSU are going to vote for this law in the first reading, we're going to vote for it if some small things improve, but actually it's technical stuff, we don't have any problem going into first and second reading, we're going to vote for it because it's a correct law. But the answer to the question, what Croatia does and what it will do in relation to the development of railways, colleagues and colleagues, is not available. It just doesn't. It's one topic that can possibly be used for the next election campaign, so the word now we're going to do either this or that, it's not done from today to tomorrow, it's done systematically, it's a topic of consensus for everyone. To say, we've developed a road network, a road network relative to the railways has been developed, but okay, we have it, we know what problems we have, whether we're going to develop the railway, what we're going to do with the economic zones, whether in the future in the county plans and others we're going to plan on, what we're going to do in the cities, whether we're going to encourage cities to use their existing industrial trackways in the functions of the city, as well as for the city of Zagreb's strategic decision on what to do but it can't do it alone with its railroad in the city center because the city is, so when you look at Zagreb, then you have a horizontally going track as, one port goes down Sava and up as the next port goes to Medvednica. When I was doing a job that made me happy, and it was teaching, then I always drew the city of Zagreb that way and when I talked about the development of the city of Zagreb, I talked about it that way. It's that maybe for the end, Amsterdam. One city that I especially like from other things, I'm there, my colleagues who work, sit down and see what Amsterdam has done for its development. And then on one completely unregulated piece, he put the railroad underground amongst other things, and they didn't have a problem with high groundwaters, but it was a project from the state and the city of Amsterdam, and then they used this plateau, and they had the most powerful and most important companies, and there was the development of the banking sector. Imagine that the city of Zagreb and the state decide to put and ić in the project that the railway line in the city centre of Zagreb goes underground, to be an upper plateau and to become a place of attraction for all those companies who, because of the inevitable Brexit that is at the door, will leave V.B. and to offer it to these countries and these companies. It's the development of a country. It is the development of one capital and the development of the country, but the answer to whether it is a project Mr. Bandic is talking about with Mr. Plenkovic, I'm afraid not. Those projects they're talking about, we see it every day, but it's one project, a project that should stand, and the answer to that could be given to us by Minister Butkovic, who would really be expected, when it comes to one law, to come here, but if it isn't there, then we'll have a law, and the development of the railroad will take a snail step, and in that time all other countries will really jump us away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126375	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Branko Hrg will speak in front of the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The HDS-HSLSS-HDSSB club will support this bill, but I want to present here on behalf of the club a few thoughts, a few ideas and ask, in the end, several questions that interest us. When we discussed the Law on Railways which allowed the introduction of concessions on passenger transport and freight transport in 2013, I asked the question whether we prepared our company, which should compete for the match, would our companies and freight and passenger transport be able to participate equally in the competition with potential other interested carriers for the concession? At that time, investment on railway infrastructure had not yet started, it was still a time when it decided what kind of railway would be, whether it would be a railway or be some other railway, the names in the debates changed, after some time, there was finally the launch of projects in the development of infrastructure. We know that the construction of this railway is under way. It is that she is late, that there have been problems, but I hope and I am convinced that in some time soon that the railway will be completed and that the construction of that new stock will continue towards Koprivnica, towards the Hungarian border, and later, of course, further. Meanwhile, this railway was built from St. Ivana Žabna to Gradec, which still seems to me not to be put into office, is not put on the market. How commercial is it going to be, how economical is it going to be, this is now a question that I want to say a few more sentences about, not alluding to this railway and its cost-effectiveness, but I am asking myself a question, and of course also to the representatives of the ministry, and to all of us, what do we really want in Croatia when we talk about rail transport? Are we just thinking about economic impacts or are we thinking about social needs? If we only think about the economic effects, then it's one concept, that means that many railways won't practically be in some special function and there won't be traffic on them, especially if there's a concession, so my question actually relates to that part. Is it also how to deal with the concession of passenger and freight transport in Croatia on rail infrastructure, how will we address social needs? How we will address the needs of people travelling by train and allow them cheaper, safer and good transport. Very specifically, will future concessionaries have an obligation to introduce such socially needed lines? Let's say, when the railway is finished Long Selo-Križevci, we expect the introduction of a suburban train in Križevci because it allows us to build this second railway station to be in the centre of Zagreb from Križevci in 35 minutes. Will a concessionary look at it from an economic point of view and think and say it's worth it to him, that he wants it? It may be worth 2, 3 pairs of trains, but I don't know it'll be worth 10 pairs of trains. So that's what I'm interested in, whether when we finish that railroad, whether or not and how the issue of the suburban train will be solved, let's say, specifically on this section that's being built, to build some other shares now, I would say the same thing, but on this particular section because I say, we expect to get a suburban train and allow the citizens of the Križevci to get faster, safer and cheaper access to the capital of the Republic of Croatia, to Zagreb. Of course, now that we're looking at this situation that we have a lot of problems in rail transport, that it's quite unorganized, that our trains are really late, that people who travel to work can't really know for sure when they're going to get to work, so let's say for those who travel to Zagreb it's pretty good that this part of coming to work is possible I don't know, from half to nine hours, in that time and I can get to work because if they count on the exact time, unfortunately, I can't. I hope that those other documents and strategies and implementing documents after the adoption of the law will be defined, made better, made to make it really more efficient, that once the infrastructure is built and built, this part of the work will be resolved in a better way, that Croatian railways will give one certainty to those travelling by that transport. I've been repeating this part, and I'm curious about that answer, somehow I was putting myself in a comparison a few years ago, when we discussed it, that our passenger transport would be put in a situation like this, unprepared on the competition about getting a concession, like you sent some football club out of some community league, to go compete with a real one. That's what it would look like. And my question, were we in this part of the preparation for this future in the Croatian Railways, thinking about preparing our company so that we can compete, how much equal way, or would we allow some lines to be socially useful, so we'll say that they're such guys, they might have some subsidy, they'll have state, they'll have local, it doesn't matter, but people need to be given such a way of transport and easier, better life. In this way, at the very least, we also preserve life in those rural areas, especially those around Zagreb, because if people can travel faster, more efficiently, towards Zagreb or another larger city, they will certainly not move, that they will stay in their places, because it will be more accessible to them. So, with these few questions, along with these few, I can say the suggestions or ambiguities that I make, I hope that this new law, which we will adopt, will give certain improvements, that this law will lead to the adoption of all other documents and that the Croatian railways will finally be defined as they should be, that it knows exactly what we want to achieve with this company, with this kind of transport, which is our interest as a state and that we are finally going in the right direction, and not as it was, here I am a little bit of the media, I see that our secretary of state has also said that it has divided into the sector within the Croatian railways in 2005 was wrong and harmful for Croatian railways. Are we going to improve something in that direction, make it right and make some wrong moves and start with the railroads in some right direction safely and timelyly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126377	Thank you. Mr. Allen Prelac will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126378	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State with Associates. I initially asked one question, relating to HZ infrastructure, i.e. railway infrastructure, I said I was afraid that it was possible to privatise railway infrastructure. You said it wasn't possible to privatise HZ infrastructure, but we need to know if it's impossible to privatise the company, like HZ infrastructure or railway infrastructure. I disagree here and think that the possible privatisation of the railway infrastructure, probably not the companies of HZ infrastructure, and in order to confirm that, I will read you Article 82 of paragraph 11 on page 62, the conduct of the decision under Article 62. 701, paragraph 3 of this Act, manager of railway infrastructure, as referred to in Article 3 of this Act. Article 71(1) is HZ infrastructure d.o.o. company established for the management, support, construction of railway infrastructure, decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of... In July 2006, and then I will read that Article 71(3). The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Ministry, determine the manager of the railway infrastructure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the government, this Article, HZ infrastructure has weakened its function so far, the railway infrastructure manager, and is placed in the same position with potential new railway infrastructure managers. This proposal does not protect national interests and raises the question of start-up investment in rail infrastructure, these are concrete things, here it is, and you deny me that in the future it is not possible to privatise rail infrastructure, so not HZ infrastructure. I believe that these laws and similar laws which, and this law is in fact 80% fine and it is in line with European legislation and we have absolutely no objection in the SDP, that 80% part, but in this part we absolutely have a fence, and my opinion is that in this law our rail infrastructure will not be better. It's clear to you, too, it'll be better if we invest more in that infrastructure, in better railways, above all new railways, and then reconstruct the old railroads. Today we have railroads where trains drive 40 hours. I came by the suburban train today, on a 40-hour train, it's a modern train, which can drive, I think, over 100 miles/h, 120km/h, there's a wi-fi that has a display that says how much it says we go to the clock and then mostly there on the display writes 60 per hour and in one part 40 per hour. That's the problem, that's the problem I want to mention here, this law won't get us a better railroad, better trains, more satisfaction for the citizens, as you said at first, we won't get, but only by strategy, a national strategy for a better HH. And I'll just say it again, a colleague from Istria was talking about how infrastructure development in Istria is that we brought in our mandate the National Programme for the Development of Railway Infrastructure. There are also railways in Istria. Our national strategy was and the projects were also in Istria, only an answer to the Istrians who are justifiably people that do not have an adequate railroad, absolutely. I'm not saying you're not going to do it, if you're going to have a chance, I hope you don't, that someone else will have a chance, if definitely the railroad is not in satisfactory condition. I will now say a positive example, here I told all of you that today I came with a railway suburban train that drives Long Village – Savski Marof, I live in the Brdovec municipality and it is really something that is absolutely the advantage of that end, aware that there are all citizens who travel on that long village route – Savski Marof, these are some modern trains, really modern with wi-fi, I say with speed, possible speed over 120km per hour. I wish that all cities, larger cities in Croatia, would have such a suburban train. The reconstruction of that railroad is also planned. I hope it'll be this year because speaking already here in the last two years tells me the relevant HZ infrastructure that it will be, none of that. But here, I believe that this railway will be, in fact, she is, I believe and profitable, perhaps the only railway in Croatia is profitable because every day all those gravitating towards Zagreb on this move north-South and from the Slovenian border to the Long Village drive daily with this suburban railroad. And it's really for every commendation. I don't know how many of you know we have such a thing in Croatia. I'm traveling around Europe, believe me, this train of ours has nothing to do with the most modern trains in Europe. But it is only one, one line Long Village – Sava Marof. And now we're talking about that line by Savski Marof – Long Selo is gravitating one large part of Zagreb County, one large part of Zagorje County and clearly a large part of the city of Zagreb, these are the suburban parts. And why today do we not have an integrated transport of the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Zagorje County? That's my question. And in 2007, the project was launched. In 2007, I became chief in 2009 and they were already having big talks. It is almost finished, the integrated transport of the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Zagorje County in which the buses were to be driven, means the stations of the suburban trains, people from Zagorje, Zagreb County, the surroundings of Dugi Sela, Vrbovac, and that was all in the final phase 10 years ago. Tens of millions of kunas were paid for that study, they were working Czechs as far as I know, today nothing. To the point of 10 years or 12 years, nothing happens. I would say first of all to the city of Zagreb, Mayor Bandic, who works I don't know, I won't mention what he's doing, maybe he's responding to someone doing what he's doing to a cableman or doing other things. But for 10 years nothing has been done about the integrated transport of Zagreb and Zagreb and Zagorje County. Who's to blame? Someone needs to be called in. But you in the ministry should also ask an open question why Mayor Bandic does not want it. As far as I know and perhaps wrongly know it is wanted by the mayor of Zagreb County and the mayor of Zagorje County, as far as I know. But here in this country, one mayor can block everything. This is your coalition partner, your government. Let's ask that question why the city of Zagreb is daily stifled with thousands of cars going downtown and we could go to the suburban railway, an integrated transport for which tens of millions of kunas have been paid for and today nothing since 2007, and I've known for sure since 2009 since I took part. It's some things that just here this law won't fix, this law won't fix it. The European Regulation will not bring us better rail transport, the European Regulation will not draw and give us candidate studies for European projects, we ourselves must run and no law, we can write it as much as we want, as many pages as we can have. I'm saying, I'm saying and I'm making examples, but I'm saying what's really not right and it's not right. My question is to the secretary of state, where are the studies based on which you're going down the river line, where are those studies, who's going to run that railroad? One question. The second question is, who will control the fee policy for the infrastructure's concessionary or external infrastructure manager. And we know that it's possible for someone else to get infrastructure management. It's too serious a question that needs to be resolved before this law itself. Another one of my local questions or a little wider than the local question. The initiative of several units of local self-government of Zagreb County and Zagorje County, but with the support of the mayor on the other side of Sutle, has launched an initiative for the reconstruction of the Kumrovečka railway. Kumrovječka railway is important or should be important for all economic operators, part of Zagreb County and Zagorje County. We were at the Ministry of Transport, we were well admitted to Mr. Mihotic's State Secretary and discussed and discussed that railway should be restored. It doesn't take hundreds of millions of kunas to rebuild that railroad. There's a part already in preparation, it can be activated immediately, but with this initiative we haven't come far except for the promise. Mine was an initiative, I talked to the mayor one and the other and the directors of HZ Infrastructure, here is help to finally launch this initiative to revitalise the railway towards Kumrovec and Slovenia and because of the economy, because of all those people living along the railway line, the Zagorje municipalities to Kumrovec, but also because of tourism because the railway is a link with the Slovenian part of the Atomske spas and that is one direction that should absolutely be started. Here, I ask you specifically for this initiative to support us finally sitting down, to give ourselves some time terms in which we will launch this initiative and God forbid we revitalize the railroad from Harmica to Kumrovec. There are several small municipalities in the move that have no transport at all. Not at all. Here's a specific Zagorje village, I was amazed by a colleague who complained to me, there's no transport at all. It's a small municipality, there's no bus, and the railroad is out of operation. Here, I ask for your help on behalf of all the mayors and mayors of Klanjc to help us revitalise the railroad towards Kumrovec and for economic reasons and for tourist reasons. And another question, is it going to be in force, and I am asking this about all the local self-government units in Croatia that have problems with public transport, whether it will be in effect in 2019, the public service contract that is necessary to have bus transport, we are now on the railway, but this also applies to the railway, to be adequate transport, public transport in all local self-government units, and we know that these contracts on public transport, the deadline should be the end of 2019. Will we finally start with these public service contracts so that every Croatian citizen can, under normal circumstances, at some normal time and pace, reach his destination because today's public transport situation in Croatia is, I would say, catastrophic. And it's all about, I say, with this ministry, I appreciate everything you're doing, for what started the initiative, here, I say, rebuilding and part of the railroad towards Zabok, the Križevci, all of these are good initiatives, but all of these are insufficient, insufficient paces to allow our citizens at some point in time, a minimum in that communication. That's the basics. If we all travel together, we travel around Europe a little bit, so we know in fact how much rail transport is acceptable, how good they are, and where we are extremely, extremely bad. To cross to Zadar, as far as it is, it's about 300 kilometers long. Do you know how long the railway takes to Zadar? A lot longer than a bus. The railroad is simpler, it should be faster, it should be cheaper, it should be more environmentally acceptable. That's the problem. How long does it take to get to Split? How long is the trip to Split? I was in Brussels, so then we talk, let's jump to Paris. We'll jump to Paris in an hour. Railway rail, or by train, which drives 300 km/h. 300 km/h, that's cca. 300 kilometers, let's jump to Paris, and we can't jump to Zadar. Neither that Split, or.../incomprehensible/... 2 hours. Here. It is my wish that we have such a railroad and that our citizens have one modern and acceptable communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126379	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Zeljko Lenart will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126380	Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, since the secretary of state explained well and responded rarely honestly to the lines set, I would still like it if it was here today or if the minister had come, Mr. Butkovic, but he was obviously too tired of Chinese promises so he couldn't come today. I'm not going to start the debate with a joke today, I'm going to finish it with a joke because this is quite a serious topic. This proposal of the Law on Railways, unfortunately,.../incomprehensible/... this law is in the very explanation of why the law is passed. To bring Croatia's legal regulations in line with the EU acquis. I would be far happier if Croatian rail standards were to be aligned with the technical gains of railways in the EU, as many have already spoken today about the state of the railways in Croatia and the Union. Here's a colleague used to say he jumped to Paris, I once had a chance to jump from Madrid to Barcelona, with a train that went 308 km/h. That was about 2011. Unfortunately, we had averages of 30, 40 km/h, 30 years ago while I was studying, from Kutina to Zagreb I was driving on a fast train 53 minutes, today he drives on the agenda for an hour and 27 minutes, and recently I traveled as much as 2 hours of those 80 km, which is devastating for Croatian railways because, as the average cyclists say, they are faster than Croatian railways. As the secretary of state said in 2005 a catastrophic national plan for the maintenance and construction of Croatian railways was adopted, some of them were in a bad way, it is clear to me that some of them were unhappy because the HDZ was then in power, but we have also witnessed that then Croatian railways had disintegrated into several companies, such as HZ Infrastructure, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Cargo, etc. All of this division was obviously directed towards the privatisation of HZ and not towards promotion, because we have witnessed that in all these years Croatian railways have fallen so far in the state of infrastructure, in the ability to provide services that it was unimaginable at the time that it would happen. Once I walked along the track from Kutina to Zagreb, so believe me, there are patterns that hold the rail, which you can take out with your hand how much these wooden thresholds are rotten and normally that you can't reach higher speeds. What's tragic about the Croatian railways is that we have 1500 and some spring crossings today, that 21 people died last year from the train crash at the railway crossings, which is 8 more than a year ago, that we have about 30 spring crossings that occur at the weekly level and for some of these failures and inexplicable. I don't know why this technical thing is so inexplicable today as being spiritual. Unfortunately, our railways that are about 2600 km long in length, we have 90% of the single-circuit rail, of which only 36% is electrified, almost 55% of the network refers to rail lines that are important for international traffic and only 5.4% of the track is reached at speeds between 140 and 160 km/h. At 17%, maximum speed is reached above 100 km/h and 37% speeds below 60 km/h. I think in the Wild West there in the 19th century the trains were about to drive at those speeds when it could have meant a good horse arriving train and robbing it. Today's infrastructure has 545 stations and stands, traffics around 630 passenger trains and approximately 115 freight trains per day. Today, after the liberalisation of infrastructure use is approved in 2013, we have 7 operators driving on Croatian railways and it is questionable whether sufficient and quality checks are made on the condition of the underpass of these locomotives which are towed by trains on Croatian railways and are not owned by Croatian railways. Croatian railways should have used far more funds from EU projects, the problem is that they are ours. Croatian projects unprepared, as Mr Aurelio Cecilia, head of the department for Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovenia, has made it very clear that the Republic of Croatia is not looking for money that cannot be spent or to improve the capacity of project preparation and that we are only looking for money from the EU. The evidence is that at the time the funds were withdrawn from the IPA projects, Croatia asked for project documentation and construction permits for the railway on the route Zagreb-Rijek, the deadline was 3.5 years, it was about 9 million kuna, of which 85% of this cost was to go from EU funds and 15 from national funds, today 3 years after the deadline it was still not completed and Croatia is threatening to return to the EU budget around 3 million euros. Here is so much about the quality of the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. Those who suffer the most in all of this, suffer the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, suffer the economy of the Republic of Croatia because, as in Europe, the railway column of all traffic should be in Croatia. This law facilitates privatisation, obtaining concessions for the construction of certain shares, privatisation and liberalisation of traffic on Croatian railways. We easily leave it all to the most foreign hands, and then some word will have to be because it wants the EU, but in 1994 Germany liberalised its rail transport and today says that Deutsche Ban is about 99% that uses the infrastructure and which, which means the state-owned company has held in German hands in a way that the railways are available to them and that they can condition what will be done. We'll leave it to someone, obviously, here's China says she's been interested for about 9 years for Rijeka's port and for the modernisation of the Zagreb-Rijeka railway, 9 years of promise, so it's probably been a great promise the other day, so the minister is tired of it, unfortunately it won't be anything. Croatian railways are a disaster, people are killed, the economy has very little use for them and eventually the development of the Republic of Croatia is a hostage of such bad policies towards Croatian railways that should remain as such and as such develop. And today's joke is that a gentleman who lives in Croatia, has had enough digging through containers, hunger, cold, decided to stop his life and the way he wanted to do it to get to the nearest track and wait for the HZ train to run him over. After a few days they found his body and the autopsy found that the unfortunate Croatian man died of boredom, waiting for the train of HZ to run him over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126381	Okay, now we're going to, the time has come for popular breaks or applications to make a statement on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. All right, let's move on with the clubs. Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126383	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State Brnjas with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a debate on the Law on Railways, a proposal for the Law. It's a law that's good, there's no special objection. It's a law that provides frameworks, it's not a law that sets out a strategy for us, we set a strategy, this law only provides frameworks and I personally don't have any objections to these frameworks. He really gives us good opportunities to make our railroads like German railroads, why not? But we didn't look up to the German railroads, unfortunately. We came from Austria-Austria where there was some kind of German principle, but we didn't look up to German railways, and that's our problem. After we became an independent Republic, we did not realize that ZTP Zagreb, no longer ZTP Zagreb, is an independent and sovereign railway administration. We didn't realize it in time and because at first we didn't realize it in time, we still have the consequences of this lack of understanding and the consequences of this wrong approach to the railways. It took years and years for us to realize that we are the heads of our railroads, and that is why today our capacities are far from what should be optimal, far, far below. We're constantly stagnating from our independence, instead of making progress, we're stagnating. So, the speeds that were before the war, were really fast transport from point A to point B. Today, one train that was driving for example. between Zagreb and Kutina, one of the fastest trains, it was a business train at the time, his name was Sava Express, he needed about 45 minutes. to come from Kutina to Zagreb, from Zagreb to Kutina. Today the fastest train that drives on that route needs, I think, one hour and 25 minutes. And that's if everything's okay, and rarely when everything's okay. Why don't we have the railroad we're supposed to have? Why isn't our railroad even better than it was during the former state? Well, first of all, you need to invest money. You have to invest money all the time. Secondly, it is necessary for quality people to work on the railway, since the railway is public good, these people should take care of this public good and put their private interest in another plan. Is that so? I'm saying it's not like that. The new ones that come into the public sector come because of their private interest and do not think that public interest comes first. The problem that emerged further appeared in 2005. In 2005, HZ was divided, divided into 5 companies, one company run by 4 other holding companies, and that holding HZ Holding managed Infrastructure, Travel Transport, Cargo and Wolf Trains, that Holding was constantly called a corporation, and it was not a corporation. What's the difference between a corporation and a holding company? At the holding company we have one company owned by other companies, at the corporation we have joint management and we didn't realize when we divided the railroads that we didn't have a corporation but called it a corporation. It was weird to me all the time, but we just couldn't handle it. What happened after that split? Instead of cutting costs, we have increased global costs. Why? Because we had one administration, five administrations. Instead of one service, we had five jobs. And all of that, so it's been multiplied, and that's what the manager's salary is all about. There are increased levels for managers. And these managers in large numbers didn't realize that they were responsible for what they were doing, but they were acting as they were before when it was a society where there was no manager, in which it was all left, in some way management of the state because when companies were divided in such a way as the divided HH, then these new managers should realize that they are now, in some way, responsible, not in some way, but should be responsible managers in the private sector, in exactly the same way. However, in the state sector it is not so organised. In the state sector, unfortunately, it does not respond to failures. What happened? There was more money needed for the same needs, and at the same time there were fewer speeds on the tracks. The next thing you know, the characteristics of railways have been before, but to a slightly smaller extent than now is political employment. As with the entire state public sector, railways are part of this state and public sector, politics mass-employs its employees to certain jobs and thus allows them to have a good existence in their lives. This is how the state and public sectors are managed, and so the railways must be cut off. As long as it takes, our railroads won't be like German railways, and I'll keep warning that we have to look right at the German railroads. The German railways still have a corporate way of managing the railways. They still have common infrastructure and transporters and there are no problems with that. The Law on Railways allows precisely in that part of it that talks about how to organise managers and carriers, that it can be a vertically integrated society, which is essentially a corporation. And I wish we hadn't changed in the division of railways the way of management, but we should have just financially separated those certain sectors then, the carrier should have had its own finances in particular, the railway carrier for the passenger transport of his, Cargo his, the train tow and the Infrastructure to his finances, and that was what was important under the EU Directive to do. That's what I should have done. It had to be done. And it didn't have to form a special legal person, it could all have been one legal person. Unfortunately, it didn't go that way. The next thing that happens, every change of government, the administration changes. My opinion is that the administration that will do a quality job had to survive at least 10-15 years. We can't keep changing administrations, it changes policies, it changes strategy, it would be another thing if we had some strategy that we formed and decided it would be like that, if then the next administration were to inherit it. No, we simply change political power precisely because the new political government is changing strategy and that's not good. And yet, that doesn't mean, if we put one administration now, we won't change it in half a year. No, the administration that we're setting up should be controlled maximumly because the state owns, of course, still with us even though there are operators out of state, but that's a small part. The state must carry out strict control of what it has outlined to be done with the railway system and then if the administration fails to carry out its tasks, it should be replaced in half a year, if necessary, no problem. But when one administration shows it's doing well, then you have to keep it as long as possible because you just look at the person who's doing some work, so it takes time to get in and it works out the right way. If someone is valuable, if they are industrious, if they are moral, and they should be any administration that appears in the state and public sector, then the results must eventually be expressed. There's been a lot of failures, I'm going to mention some failures that may be petty, they may not be petty, but they're failures in the rail system that I witnessed. I don't know if anyone's ever been responsible for those failures. It's not always the failures that are related to the transport or infrastructure itself, but the failures in that system that milk money and no one is responsible for, I don't think it is. So I'm going to mention a case maybe 10 years ago in a passenger transport they remembered, they remember wisely, that a way to sell tickets on trains that is well organized through certain machines. And they bought these ticket sales machines that the conductors would wear on their shoulders and sell to the ticket passengers without printing the hand of those certain whites and similar cards that the conductors hand-printed if the passenger did not have a transport document on the train. And what happened? I don't know how much millions were spent on this, but it was bought devices that weren't functional and couldn't be used. Here's one mistake. The second failure, which may be an even greater failure, in a management building in Mihanovic, broke walls, carried out certain channels, pipes, placed certain devices with the introduction of a central climate, central air conditioning, means central cooling and central heating. And when they broke down the walls, when they installed all these devices, it was found that it could no longer work because there was a missing major part that was no longer to be bought. And there's spending millions, and I don't know if anyone's ever been responsible for that, and I remember that even when they were doing that part, and the device when they were installing the building, then there's arches in the building and those arches aren't really sucky out there. That's why the bows hold the ceiling. And they broke those bows because they couldn't survive without breaking the bows of that device. And what happened? The ceiling fell in one place. Fortunately, no one went under that part when that ceiling fell and if it had passed, it would have simply killed someone. Here's another failure. The next failure that is related to passenger transport are tilt trains. I don't know how many tilt trains, remember that, probably now he's driving tracks on Croatian railways, but these tilt trains are a complete failure, trying to increase track speed in a way that introduces some trains that can then, because of their tilting techniques, drive faster than conventional trains. These trains were first terribly uncomfortable, they were introduced to drive on the Zagreb-Split track. In case of people riding those trains, everyone's unhappy with that train, I personally drove the same, for the first time when I was driving, I said right away, so it's just a box, it's not good. Instead, it was necessary to invest maximumly in infrastructure, to bring infrastructure into the projected state and how fast it can be driven, but to drive that track normally comfortable trains because exactly the railway line is something that enables comfort, freedom of man and I personally railway driver, but not only because of that, I prefer to ride the train precisely because of this comfort and freedom that man has through. No other means of transport provides such freedom as the train does, and I must say at the end of this exhibition, that the railroad in every country is a mirror of the state. Our railroad, our infrastructure, our trains, it's all our country's mirror. We have on one side of these excellent suburban trains that can drive it seems to me to be up to 160 per hour or 120, I don't know, they're really good but they're driving a track that allows for a speed of 60 km/h. And that's our country, on the one hand, you have something great, great, and on the other hand you have something that makes it impossible for what's great to really shine. And that requires a long-term strategy to bring the Croatian railways into order and let's say at least 50% of the level of the German railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126384	Thank you very much. It is now Mr. Ivica Misic's turn in front of the Club of Labour Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126385	... Secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] The Labour and Solidarity Club welcomes this law, passed under certain EU regulations, of course, that this is one way that leads to one settlement of the law, to settle some rules that we can and can now say that ours are not so bad, but by watching what should be and how to implement that law, that is the question. The question of our railway infrastructure, what our railways look like, how can we ask it all, how can we inform our citizens who travel to the railways, it's all about not a problem how much the problem infrastructure is, in fact, the railroad, our trains that drive every day. Which prompted me to talk on the subject of railways is because I have used railways myself and I have used them for 20 years, mostly for Zagreb from Slavonia, where I live and I have experienced a very, very much unpleasantness in these trains, in these railways. I wonder what it's been for these 20, 25 years that we really haven't done anything to improve the railroad, is it that much... allowed in this country, can this people endure so much and especially my Slavonian people where I come from, who has been sentenced to travel from Vinkovac to Zagreb for 4 hours, in trains that do not have air conditioning, in trains that do not have the heating that I have experienced, in trains where you have to cross over, so the buses drove you between certain shares which can be welcomed but.../incomprehensible/... when I was alone there were 2 buses the whole train. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then you can think of 100 people, 200 people in 2 buses, but here are the gaps we see today, nothing special has changed, I think as far as the railroads are concerned, the biggest failure we've made in 25 years, the biggest failure. I wonder if my colleagues, here they are, Slavonca so far Parliamentarians have tried and defended this 15 years ago, 20 years ago, whether they fought for Slavonia, but Slavonia is looking at it both the railroads and everything else ruined. One student who studies in Zagreb takes him four hours Fridays to come home, and then trains are late, and then they're sitting, and they're broken, so they don't heat up, so they don't cool down, and then you can imagine what the passengers are thinking, how they're experiencing that trip. Of course, colleagues said it was pleasant and nice and I like to get on the train because you're carefree, take the paper and read, enjoy it in some way if it's all right, so let's do it for four hours that everything's fine, however it's not like that, it's not like that. We used to come from Vinkovac in 2.5 hours, and we mentioned we had fast express trains, today when you sit down from here to Kutina you go for an hour and a half, embarrassingly, embarrassingly that from Zagreb to Kutina an hour and a half of time where you should make a fast track to Kutina, and from Brod to Vinkovac you have fast or to the border down with Serbia, we wonder who goes there, no one. So from here most often go students, students, workers, everyone goes down, why don't they do it, I ask the question why it doesn't work, it's the biggest Javalluk I would say in the Croatian state, we had managers of railways who got 400,000 before retirement, or 200 or they got management contracts, they took 400,000 they went back to the state company and they're working today. No one asked what that was like? I'm asking a question of responsibility here, who's answering? We have signed contracts, where they are not implemented, we have the Koprivnica railway – Zagreb, we ask how late she is, will she be late, I believe that if it doesn't end, who pays for it, so we state. If these companies have a responsibility, it's a question, unfortunately in our state there is no responsibility so far I hope this government is not to blame for everything that's happened and I hope there will be responsibilities. Whether you know it during Austro-Hungarian times, Austria has made 200 km of railway in 9 months, Ship – Zenica, where you didn't even have machines, where you didn't even have roads, made in 9 months. It's simple to believe that we can't make 100 kilometers of railroad in a year, it's simple for amazing. I'm listening here to my colleagues and Predac and some of the Varazdins and around, they're trying to get here as soon as possible, of course I'm congratulating them, and I'm asking them all a question so let the gentlemen down, let him get to Slavonia, promised is whether he'll do it or not, and I'll follow. Of course, the promised I'll believe that in two, three years it will be connected, but if we do as we've done so far, I don't think we'll do anything. I went to Split, with this lean train that they praised, I was sitting inside, at seven o'clock I started in Split, it was so tight that I asked the conductor if this was going to fall apart, so he said he wouldn't be worried. It's a shame what that train is, a shame. For the farthest destinations we have such trains, so that they are to Vinkovci, and here we have new dishes in the intercity transports we have beautiful new trains, and you gentlemen from Slavonia that has been ruined, why, you could talk about it for a long time, you suffer further. Go away, like we're leaving. I'm not happy with that so far. The railway crossings are not completed, why, maintenance of the railway has information and these fast tracks from Brod to the Serbian border do not have electronics, it is broken but they do not have electronics that the ramp can be closed or lifted, is the turning point closed, that a dio who does not get hurt. Or they're all different so they don't know, so they don't know in Zagreb, so here they are, so where's the responsibility? There must be responsibility in everything, the EU's money is giving, we just need to use it, but when we take that money, we have to be responsible for what they took, I'm afraid it won't, I'm afraid it won't. Why? Well, because we're such a people, no one's answered so far, so I'm not going to say today, it's not millions anymore, it's hundreds of millions, we've thrown them into the Oilstone 2.5 billion, we're going to throw five, which, for someone's irresponsibility, someone has to answer for it, says no one's controlled it, is it possible, so let's go check out one trader, one catererer, one small check of 5 kuna, close his place, and then we're a legal state, we're not gentlemen from here from this assembly, so there's gotta be a responsibility. This people must have parliamentary representatives who match their citizens who wish them well, no. We're here to sit down and get paid and go home, which I don't care about any more. And we have some responsibilities and the culprits just for sure. Since I'm working as some kind of entrepreneur, I see how we're suffering, we see how difficult it is to survive, and I see again how nice it is to be in the service of the state, but without responsibility. And here you are responsible because you have your own company, you have the right to pay taxes and obligations to the rule of law, of course, if you are not alike, so forgive your tax. I think that time is over, I think that time should come to an end, to stop dealing with it. Yes, there are no workers from some information on the railways, no workers, no electricians, no workers working, but the competitions weren't being called, and apparently here they are now, and I congratulate you on that being. We've got all the supplies you want, we've got the train spaces where we leave and we're going to the private ones, no one's answering. I hope that this government in this time, this railroad will get on some healthy feet. I was on a German train, so I came back, moved here to... Zagreb at half past ten was about -15, you know what I experienced? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the train inside was frozen, the truth was the heating, the window couldn't be closed, it fell on you, it melts and falls on the seat of the rain and then you only see when you come from a Frankfurt to Zagreb, so you see that station is poor, old, open, cold, sitting on an even worse train than you, of course, have brought it much better and then you disappoint yourself and this people alone. I hope that another story will turn towards the railways in the future, that we will not just go to the roads, we will not throw money into some unnecessary things, that we will give where to this people, and in particular I am talking about Slavonia, where people are moving, that they can also come from Vinkovac in two and a half hours to Zagreb. Why can't this people come? It costs you 200,00 kn, 220,00 kn, cost you the road if you take the highway 1,000,00 kn. Therefore, if we leave Slavonia and we want to help her, this is one opportunity to invest in the railways and make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126386	Thank you, dear fellow muscle. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the club of independent representatives of the respected colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126387	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, I will say at first that the club of Independent Representatives will support this legislative proposal in the first reading. We hope that through these two readings and through the comments on the public debate that have been made, in particular most of the objections that are not, it was illogically going from those directly related to this Law, so here there are a lot of objections from HZ Infrastructure, we hope to get through with the final version of the Law that will help HZs or HZs, better to say, that from this situation that the predecessors were talking about, which, I will say, is not quite as black as it seems at first glance, that this situation is being corrected. Now, we're, so that I don't join a series of colleagues, even though we'd have a basis for even more oiling or blacking out the situation, we could say some good examples, so here's the modernization of this railroad in St. Ivan Frog, from Gradec to, say, one good thing. We hope that these modernizations will become more and more and that HH will come to the branch that belongs to them. However, it is not an easy, simple process and work, nor even this Law, it can only provide a foundation, but certainly it is not something that will or will not exist such a magic wand that would very quickly raise HZ and raise to the level that some developed countries have. What we can say at the beginning is the same thing in the debate, so there's no railroad in the world that can or is very rare, I don't think even there are, maybe people who have been able to talk me out of it for a long time, or argue otherwise, there's no railroad that doesn't need the help of the state. The state performs always where there is no interest in capital because when there is an interest in business, then we do not need to worry, there, but someone will take over that part of the route or that transport that is economically profitable, however, where there is no cost-effectiveness, there must be a state and on the other hand, we have chosen one direction that we have set both as a member of the EU and therefore goes now and this other legislative change. Of course, it's not just about the so-called. The fourth harmonisation package with European legislation has already been slightly extended, and it is related to this part which I will later slightly problemise in the legislative proposal itself. So we don't have a lot of choices, that fourth package was supposed to be implemented in this legislative proposal, and that's where we're headed. What is crucial, what is seen from this legislative proposal, and what has been warned in the public debate is, in fact, the introduction or definition, better to say the definition of whether and in the present bill, it was possible. Defining the possibilities of concessions on railway infrastructure, in fact the management of railway infrastructure and this is through art. 8, 9 and 10 defined in which forms such a model can be used and in which way it can be re-established the vertical society that we left, as said here several times in 2005 by dividing companies into 4 parts, Passenger freight transport, Train and HZ Infrastructure, and everything was under roof, roof company Holding, later the roof company of Holding, and the train train was actually shared between these two carriers, passenger and freight transport. Article 9 is now again proposed that which are models, in which a company in a vertical commercial company can be realised, whether the infrastructure manager is under the control of a commercial company which controls one or more railway undertakings, which provide network services or the infrastructure manager is under the control of one or more railway undertakings, therefore the reverse situation which provides them with rail transport on a network or one or more railway undertakings providing rail transport services to the infrastructure manager network under the control of the infrastructure manager. So 3 of these variations, it is no secret that the secretary of state in her interviews criticised the division in 2005 and it is no secret that it represents this division and opinions we are in the club and my personal opinion that if it goes back to this initial position that we had, but only that it will not be enough, in itself because it is important when we talk about managing infrastructure, it is important to define clear rules that anyone who manages the infrastructure of whatever kind of company is involved in any other private society that respects the contract that is signed and it is defined here in the bill which is good, and the contribution is defined by the content of the contract and in the article, I do not know exactly the number of articles now, is defined what the contract must contain. What I did not see in this article and the contribution itself is actually the balance or value of the infrastructure at the time of the concession, perhaps I missed it, yes, the article is the 46th that defines the contract on the management of railway infrastructure and incentives, so Annex 4 which is along with this law might have to be more clearly prescribed to establish the balance of the value of the infrastructure at the time of the takeover and at the end of the time of the concession as we know in general and in society, here we have, some countries have solved it so that even when we talk about any of these units of local self-government to make the balance before taking office and after the takeover, then it is clearer to see, and then this campaign for selecting the units of local self-government, municipalities, cities is easier to implement. Of course we can't apply it here literally, but the fact is, someone mentioned, that 25 administrations changed in 28 years, watch out, 28, 25 administrations. Even if they wanted to do something, with such frequent changes, there would be no result. What we're aiming at and we see that the government here is in charge of the strategy, I don't know if that's the best solution in what context the Parliament is actually mentioned here, but well, let the government bring the strategy for 10 years, I think it's also a national plan. In the EU, the share of rail transport in passenger transport is 8%, with 3%. In freight transport, 28%, with only 17%. And the goal of the EU is until 2050 to raise that percentage to 50% at EU level, this is extremely important for a number of reasons, one of the reasons is safe environmental protection, and the next reason that we seem to be talking a little bit amazing at this point, but we should think about it that railways can always be a driver of development, in this case they were just brakers or something that is rightly said to be spending money and where we came through subsidies but railways can be a driver of development just as it can be shipbuilding, we can't have the illusion in this society that we're all going to live on tourism and agriculture because that's not going to be the case. We need to turn to those branches and those areas that can generate economic growth through the development of industry because the railway is always in history, and it can today, generates certain economic growth. So if we just take an example of a low-level railway that has been talked about many times in history, the low-level track towards Rijeka's Rijeka port would automatically be competitive to the port of Kopar, at this point it's not and it's one of the problems. Here I will also mention the railway which, I think, has a regional character, is the Varazdin-Long track that passes there and through the area where I live, the railway is under-invested whether it's almost investing, and that railroad could live by, say, encouraging industrial transport, industry through that railroad and even agricultural products or other mineral raw materials, but it should be thought about when we bring strategy and what we've missed, and that's a criticism to many governments before some corridors have been included in the plan of international corridors and perhaps could have been. Of course, the Republic of Hungary had an interest in their direction, which goes parallelly practically in its direction, being ignored. I'll just say one more thing and it's about this in general, there's probably a lot of young people who've never seen a railroad, as someone's painted, so maybe they should bring some animals like a cow into the zoos because a lot of kids haven't seen cows so many of them haven't seen railroads, we have to work on it, we have to develop railroads not only for the reasons of sentimental or something that would be acclaimed to past times, but I'm also saying because of the possibility of economic development. We'll support this bill, I'll take this opportunity and praise the bill, you've done a good job, what I ask you to do until the second reading, listen to a little bit and the people in the infrastructure, there's plenty, I can see that these remarks they've made about responsibility and everything they say because even though they meet in the field with concrete problems, there's nothing to be in the air because they need to know who's responsible for what they're for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126388	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126389	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. Right on page one, when we see this proposal, we read it immediately... The legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation means that we are harmonising something that we have taken on as a commitment and it has been placed on this law, so that instead of the proposal it could be put on the EU directive, because it is immediately spoken on the next page in the assessment of the situation and on those issues that need to be regulated by this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] See, this is something that's been prescribed in the directive and it's in line with the directive. Up here is the steering and technical meaning market column in the 4 railway pact. Speaking of railways, here colleagues mentioned that they were in other countries where trains go 300 kilometers,... kilometers and it would be really good if I could come from Split in an hour by train already while we are in the EU, however, it is the other way around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm going to start with one story, so in Sinj there was once a blue arena or a ferat. She was shut down in '60. In the beginning, she was a brand, she tied Sinj to Split, she was shut down and always had this tendency, the desire, them with Sinja, to return that sonic arena, the ferat. She would in the morning make women who were farming to Split go their own products, people were traveling, but she was slow, right, when she went downhill, when she came to... You could go faster, yes, you could literally go down to Solin and you could go to Klis, you could walk faster up to it, and have lunch on Klis's throat, unfortunately, today when we talk about 300 km of train speed in Europe, and we are in the EU, in Croatia we are approaching the ferati that I love and I suffer to return to one day at least as a tourist attraction of connecting Split and Sinj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You remember Big Mist, that Bacho ran fast, came to Sinj, Split from the arena, from... Unfortunately, at this point, from Split to Zagreb will sooner come on a slightly faster racer or mediocre bicycler with a bike. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a reality. Since we entered Europe, in the EU, since then, the slower the arrival from Split to Zagreb, because Zagreb towards Osijek, in no direction... towards the Vinkovs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think this law is essentially a dead letter on paper, and here we don't have some financial framework, except for these steering things, technical... There's no solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why it would be good for you and I to include, Minister, I can give the amendment, that these old growers, the ferat, come back and have a tourist offer and that tourists drive, because from Split to Sinj, from Split to Zagreb, you need, I think, if everything is neat now and 12 hours and more. Therefore, to be a tourist attraction, the tourism ministry should join because you simply do not offer solutions. And not only are you not offering solutions, as far as the Croatian railways are concerned, you are not offering a solution on traffic either. Yes, the highway came, instead of fearing the tunnel four times, it was meant to connect Vrgorac, the Drvenik Racheva, because my Son, who has 50,000 inhabitants, the Ceti area, a quick road to connect us, not to bypass us. It's 50,000 inhabitants, so the Drnski end, so the entire Dalmatian Zagora, that's why they're moving people out of Herzegovina, it was the direction that bound Hercegovina, although it's already opened 5-6 times, Branko Bačić, Luka Bebic, Ivo Sanader, it's all been opened, the tapes have been eaten, a couple of flocks of lambs and sheep to be now reduced the number of sheep you know how it goes when the elections are, so this time you'll probably be disabled in this reopening, but I think in this framework of the law, you, so there's no means. How much money we have from the EU funds, except for your strategy and the time when it will be invested, when it will be built, when it will be implemented. We have Istria that is not connected to Croatia at all. Well, here you say within the legal framework, we'll be able to access all the countries that have the railroad. I repeat again, during the wild west, nothing in us is better compared now to this railway infrastructure. It's a reality. I know when I go to Drniš, sometimes when I go to Split, it is reality what is good, as a tourist brand is good to leave and promote it as a tourist destination, so slowly it goes to see the whole of Croatia you can literally see everything. Otherwise, this is a lie and a deception. This is a lie and a deception. I don't know what our people are doing up in Brussels with Juncker, Tusk and friends. Our diameter solved the Ukrainian crisis and the Russian crisis in Crimea, and we cannot solve this personal problem, while of the 10.5 billion planned euros, we withdrew 900 million, withdrew, not agreed, we will agree. What we're gonna do is, will Juncker and Tusk decide to go for the migrants, for this, for what, we'll see what they say. And 5.5 billion euros paid by 2020 by Croatia. In 2014, we paid 5.5 times more. So the ports, I look and the ports, the port of Gažnica, 30 and down should be connected so rail, I think the port is very important, in the heart of the Adriatic, 30 million kuna for 20 years. And invested with the Zadar 2 road invested 2 billion and 200 Croatian.../incomprehensible/... in 20 years we give the entire port to a Turkish company that is.../incomprehensible/... per million and a half kn. So we don't protect it and what we do and what we invest, no matter.../incomprehensible... a special story, instead of 200 million, went to 600 million kn and so on. So the money was, but the traffic connection to that money we had, it went to who knows what coloring of the tunnel and all 10 times picked up the road and didn't invest in the railroads, right? It wasn't an investment. And that's why it remained isolated and the Dalmatian Zagora and our backs are very important, Hercegovina, it's the same as our people who have constitutional obligation to worry about this area and people to stay in that area, so it's also in the back of where the highway goes. If only it could be bypassed as soon as possible, people would have gone on an old road, tourists at least stopped by somewhere, now only those areas are bypassed, so we have two-thirds of Croatia empty. Once again, to return to this, I have said in general.../incomprehensible/... traffic, I have expressed dissatisfaction since the day we entered the EU, each year it is several hours slower to come from Split to Zagreb. So from now on, I don't know, maybe you've got some kind of math, so can you tell me, how many years have we been in the EU when we arrived from Zagreb to Split, and what is it now? And I asked you to make this public when a modern pro-European, like in France like in Spain, will be built, 300 km/h. So it's no problem to come from Split or I don't know, from other parts to Zagreb. And so we gave our citizens cheaper transportation, our entrepreneurs cheaper transportation, and this is the only way that this is the current situation is good for tourist purposes because it is so slow, it is really slow that you can see the whole of Croatia ideally, so here I suggest that you promote ours for the film industry, for the tourism promotion of the Republic of Croatia and our trains and our entire infrastructure, and will be really impressed by what our rail conditions are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126390	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126391	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. So you're actually forgetting that this railway is an unicensed railway connecting the north-west of Croatia with the Adriatic, and that in fact, the part that belongs to Croatia is all about 59, 60 km, the rest is actually passing through BiH, which is irrelevant, so that all of these relations can be arranged, so that it will start to rebuild, which we would all like, because we also want our traffic to be freight and passenger as much as possible by rail, and you also didn't look at that in the national railway infrastructure programme from 2016-2020. It's nice to say that more than 17 billion kn is projected and there you have all of what will be done and done, starting from Long Sela-Križevci, to Novska, to Koprivnica, Karlovac, etc., That's what it's for. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126392	Answer, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126393	I haven't heard how many billions of people you've said since 2016-2020, so a lot of things on paper are written, I'm interested in just.../incomprehensible/... the representatives of the ministry here have answered how much these funds have been spent so far, whether they've been launched, whether it's invested in that purpose that it's written, it's now 2019, it's another 11 months and it's over. Now was the moment, and thank you very much, to see how much of these funds were spent that you mentioned, how much did you say, I don't know,.../incomprehensible/... I didn't hear you correctly apologize, so here, immediately to the secretary, the representatives of the ministry to answer, from these funds asked by a colleague, how much has been spent for the purpose so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126394	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126395	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bull. On several occasions, I have had the opportunity to talk to you about the port of Gazenica and the flat-rate amounts that you make when it comes to its economic development and the overall impact that it will give are not points and I would like it to connect the port of Gazenica, in this case Zadar 2, and also in the future connected with the future railway that will certainly be built and connected by Šibenik, Split etc. will give immeasurable effects in the country at all when it comes to financial aspects and the development and employment of new people. So I ask you not to trust those who place false information because the port of Gaženica is going at its own pace and soon, I repeat again, will give the overall major economic development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126396	Thank you, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126397	Yes, the Gaženica port is one of the most important projects in the middle of the Adriatic, Zadar has always been a historic port city, but historical turbulence was at the heart of a strategically important city. However, if there was no misinformation, I asked for the thematic session, I did not get a single answer on that question. She was a Mrs. McNally. Marijana Seselja, who is also a county doctor downstairs and whoever Mr. Pupić is talking about almost all the time, we were the thematic session of the board, were representatives of the ministry and the fact that now Zadar 2 and port is 2 billion and 200 million kn spent, invested in this, and that we will give annually to the Turkish company for a million and a half kn, which means 20 years, 30 million kn. So you compare, not even 1% of them won't give, that's a fact, I don't know how long it's happened now, something's stalled there, some doubts have come up, but I expect that the Croatian state will manage the port, that the railway will be connected, however, in these laws and what counterpart Peric said I don't see that these funds are being invested which are envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126398	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126399	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Bulj, you mentioned the amount of funds that the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn from European funds just 800 million as you said. We cannot be satisfied with the amount withdrawn since we have 10.7 billion euros available, however, it is not worth 800 million, it should be said that a total of 1 billion and 980 million euros are paid, and if we compare that to the amount of 291 million euros that we withdrew by October 2016, we see significant progress. I would also like it once again if you knew our public, so all the funds that we were obliged to withdraw and were available to us in 2014, so within 3 years we must fully withdraw it until 2017 were withdrawn as from 2015 until the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126400	I thank my esteemed colleague. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126401	I don't know the official indicators have said the second, that it's agreed to make a lot of arrangements but that 900 million kuna was withdrawn at the end of 2017 so 900 million that's that amount, sorry euros, and 5.5 billion kuna we paid in 2014 to 2020. So I don't know, I hear announcements that even cohesion funds will cut resources due to various problems, that, it's announced by Tusk, Juncker, he's doing it, due to the migrant crisis, because. So this one, the balancing funds, who knows if they're gonna be and if we're gonna get there and what's gonna happen. Because certainly more of these European strong forces are looking at themselves than we are at us, we're just one small market, of interest to them, I don't know how to sell bad food, warmly packed, but much worse. So I would not agree with you that Croatia has made some kind of shift after withdrawing funds from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126402	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic. He's not present. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The topic is very important, therefore, the proposal for a new railway law, in the very beginning you wrote that this is primarily about the need to bring the existing law into line with EU directives. And what is most important is what is actually sought in these directives? This segment is required to be liberalized. Liberalization means privatisation. We don't need to be afraid of privatisation. So this country has opted for a kind of capitalism that unfortunately did not become that progressive capitalism, but that of its worst form, and that is that of a partner and let's say so the clientelistic capitalism that draws us back. When we talk about the railroad, what does that mean? Here it is said to be the manager of the means of rail traffic means that it will manage the entire system. It will be a formal function because the paw will be placed on this whole story by large players from the EU and it is crucial for them for geostrategic and geopolitical reasons because it passes an important corridor towards Southeast Europe through Croatia. So that's what's important, what needs to be emphasized is what's important. Croatia has never launched an investment in this main direction that would bring Rijeka, Zagreb, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovce, the Serbian-Hungarian border down towards Turkey, Greece, Bulgaria, etc., etc. During that time, only the roads were invested and the governments that led this country must know why they were investing in it. But what happens now that you get through this law? So you see these local railways are already visible how certain local directions are being created and it is obvious that this structure that is in power she thinks will remain until the judgment day in power and that these directions will be divided by their similar representatives, by interest groups, and you already see that some MPs have chosen to go to their small towns to say no to the village to get through some branch railways. During that time, the main corridor stands. The speed of transport it is already said here it is reduced to a terrible freight traffic of 25km, a passenger about 45km per hour and that is what it is. When we talk about freight transport, which is an extremely important segment that is interested in Western Europe, the EU, in this context we can say that HZ participates in the total freight transport in Croatia with about 17% while railways, on average, in the EU, carry around 28% of their entire burden. I've already said what a railway in Croatia looks like, trains are getting slower and slower, they see where they're driving and they're making bigger losses, and what a railway like that and this government is really a mirror, so the railroad is a real mirror of the Croatian government that you see doesn't know how to buy second-hand planes, and imagine it makes the corridor from Rijeka to Zagreb and so it's still the task that I can't solve for them. But there remains a problem for state finances for the national economy. Instead of the railroad that when you have a locomotive you see it pulls forward, pulls the load forward, develops, so it should be in the economy. Instead of the railway pulling the Croatian economy, it is actually returning it to reverse. So no one, no one's railroad, no one's economy can make it. Why is he putting him back in reverse? No one has ever spent a true restructuring of HH. All of these were political restructurings because from now on, the isolation of the Republic of Croatia has changed 25 administrations, I repeat, dear citizens of 25 administrations, they were all political managers, and today they will never solve anything there. They all live on the state budget's badgers because on a yearly basis between 700 million and one billion are being transferred and subsidized by the HH system, both from what year. In this context, we have a chronic loser, but not as much as, say, Croatian shipbuilding, but in this segment it is very much. I don't advocate that people be mass-free at home, God forbid, but also people who work there, train drivers, conductors, clerks, clerks, they know that such a company, especially their children, cannot survive, must be initiated by a sound restructuring process that will be run by experts who are not involved in politics. You see how public companies are run here, so here, let's say, HNS one insignificant party who, if it hadn't been for the SDP, wouldn't have really had one representative, they're holding half of the ministry, they're holding public companies from energy, so so HZ is lazy individual, so political parties. The ones about the railroad and the development of the future won't, I won't say they have no idea, but they don't know much and they won't do anything. Let's see how short it was because the Party change Croatia is not a party that deals only with history, we're not an institute, but let's take Vinkovci, you see, the Vinkovci were before, before the war was moving there annually, trafficling 18 million passengers a year, so, about 50,000 passengers per day passed through Vinkovci, over 360 trains a day, today there are no 110 and not to mention other data, this town lived, it's a city of railways, people were tied up, so it just fell to low branches there. They won't order another, so the state's entrepreneurs, you can't transport, so Luka Rijeka stands too, this must be the connected strategic direction of the investment of the Republic of Croatia. We change Croatia, our Committees on Economy and Finance, we offer solutions, so we did not come here, I did not come to you in HS just to criticize and make plays. How do we see these solutions? What are we going to do when we participate tomorrow with the support of the citizens of the government? The first thing we're going to do is we're going to remove the political managers from HZ and conduct public tenders that will be really professional and maintain, so bring in those people who know how to do their job. We are about to start a final investment in the main direction of Rijeka-Zagreb towards Slavonia and the Hungarian-Serbian border. It'll increase the gross domestic product, but now someone's going to say, so others are telling us, but where, from where we get the money, you can see that everyone's saying there's no money. Gentlemen, we saw yesterday how the finance minister manipulates, mocks us, laughs at our faces, he says that the Uljanik needs to be re-separated 2.5 billion kunas, means that it is subsidized, that 60 schools could be made, 90 kindergartens or 15,000 children, in fact that all newborn children could receive EUR 155.00, and I'm telling him from here how much you pay out of the budget unnecessarily to the banks and the Mirovinski funds? Five billion kunas every year, and now it only takes 2.5 billion, 5 billion, then multiply everything you said yesterday by two and enough of that manipulation. Such a policy should be wiped out of the Republic of Croatia, and such people do not work for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia and citizens, but they manipulate it and create a favourable environment for stakeholders. As you can see, we know where there's money, we have knowledge, we know who knows how to build a railroad, but we should, they won't, and they don't know how to make existing people, they can only make new people, new parties. People who are more professional, fairer, braver, they can bring changes to the Republic of Croatia and that's why I don't expect anything from this law because this government has no strategy for anything, you see, it doesn't know how to get used planes, let alone solve the main traffic corridor. So, I'm here to send a message of encouragement, how to you MPs, and especially to the citizens, that there are solutions, that we can live normally and have money, and there are fortunately people who know how to do it, but you're going to have to decide in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126404	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126405	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović. So, as far as I can tell from your exposure, we're actually going back in time. As far as I know, at the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, 90% of the infrastructure from all companies was owned by foreign companies and despite all these international conflicts and tensions, in fact, the very weak economy was the main cause of the collapse of that country that simply had no power to resist the German invasion to survive at all. They couldn't buy an honest squadron of planes either, and that seems to be symptomatic for our country, where while we're selling out anything that can be sold out, here, even now, and the railroads, we're also unable to control our own airspace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126406	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126407	Well, pal Bunjac, you've noticed, we're going back to reverse, so, in history. Well, you see, when Austro-Hungarian opened a railway from Rijeka, then according to Zagreb, the speed was the same as today, the same completely, in the past. Now, but that's why, you see, the new parties have come to this HS and we're not going to deal with what happened now because these people who have been here for 15, 20 years, so it's them you know, like they come for coffee, read the paper, hollow stories mostly tell, without knowledge arguments, and it should simply be sent out of HS. That is why I call on all citizens, less and less parties and MPs who have never participated in the government, in the second Homeland War for Justice and the dignity of the Croatian citizen and to be ourselves on our own and to make our own destiny. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126408	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126409	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, we are talking about HZ today and we have to ask ourselves what are HZs in the first place? In theory, it should be a company of strategic interest, an engine of the economy and the pride of the state. The railway should represent the safest and cheapest transport. Even the average informed citizen is clear advantages of the railway, and in the Republic of Croatia logic is quite clear, namely, it should build 3 main directions which, according to counterpart Lovrinović, has also been determined by Austria-Hungarian, meaning, direction Ljubljana-Zagreb-Belgrade, direction of Hungary-more and direction of Zagreb-Split. It would have cost us some money, probably several billion kunas, but if we were a state, if we had the government of statesmen, not puppets, in the past 28 years we could have done this job a few times, not once, since it's only a few hundred miles of track. Here, let's say, there's RH money to build a wire that costs half a billion kuna, more than in the Alps, and that money alone, let's say, invest in the construction of the railway, would already have a railway from Zagreb to Delnica, if not further. Today in the world those slower trains drive 160 km per hour, they are a little faster and over 300 and if we had such railways, the Republic of Zagreb would become like one, we could say, a little bigger yard where the people of Rijeka could work in Zagreb on the basis of daily migration, and the inhabitants of Zagreb would bathe in the sea without having to rent apartments. But here, instead of being creative, we come down on our shoulders, we have no strategy, we have no improvement, and only now, after decades of release, comes to HS something called the Law on Railways. Yes, instead of a successful company that would make us all profit from, we have in practice today a clinical dead man who is only a shadow, even what we once had in so much hateful Yugoslavia, let alone what is common in EU countries. I should even say that on this point, we are only the European bottom, as well as in a bunch of other things, such as citizens' standards, judicial independence, gender equality, science, university success, and even Internet speeds and battery recycling. To be at the bottom, should that even be asked when the Republic of Croatia is mentioned? For us, therefore, here it is, even this past that we so fiercely reject, a light that we can't even get close to. Sometimes, so, 30, 40, 50 years ago, it took us two hours on the train, today we need four. Incidentally, I just came from Međimurje, from Čakovec, Međimurje had the first track in the Republic of Croatia and I learned there that even in the time of Hungary trains drove at a speed of 100 km/h, and today they drive 30 to 40 km/h, so basically at a faster bike speed. Trains, not only to drive slow, but usually late because of very bad infrastructure, but also because they drive along one track, so if one train stops, then the whole rail traffic stops in the Republic of Croatia. A passenger who travels by train can expect great discomfort, a great delay, even, is cancelled about 1000 lines a year, and then as a little supplementing the buses, and often happens that, unfortunately, there is no bus, the passenger stays without transportation, and even without money because HZ money for provided services does not return. In the world, of course, it's different, you even have a situation in Japan that no train has ever missed a single second, and if it had happened to be one second late, the minister of traffic would have resigned. Unlike Japan, in the Republic of Croatia it has never happened that one train arrived on time, it is a significant difference. In the EU, we are not going to Japan, it may be a little too far, with 28% of the freight carrying the railway, to the Republic of Croatia only 17.9% of people travelling by train in Croatia, only 3 with a tendency to fall. How did we get into this situation? Well, we've been in this situation since 1990, because from the order of the HDZ, road lobbys have started to benefit from the principle of party personality, and HZ has been fired and driven by high-quality workers to hire arrests and relatives who often have little connection to rail transport. So from where we had, I don't know, two or three bosses and 15-20 workers, today in HH we got to a state that we had 15-20 bosses on one worker. The company is failing, and directors have salaries higher than Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Hundreds of official cars are purchased, large money is spent on the team, scandalously large, and money is drawn from the company as we heard, 25 administrations have been changed and the worst of all, budget money is drawn because the Republic of Croatia spends between a billion and a half and two billion kuna per year for railways. With all these investments today we have locomotives over 35 years old on average, cars over 25 years old, creepy debts that accumulate and I agree with this finding that HH is actually similar to Croatian shipbuilding, one time bomb for a budget that is only a matter of time before it explodes. Big money is given in Croatia, but very little is invested in reality, and when invested, it ends with a debacle, as in the case of tilt trains, which never leaned, and today they don't even drive anymore. We have a case of a snowman, gentlemen of the ministry, answer me, please in your closing statement, why are the snow cleaners that have never driven. Who's to blame for the theft of millions of euros? To whom did it please, why do the criminal charges that were filed stand in the drawer? Can you answer me, please, what about those snow-cleaners? Please, the Croatian public is interested. So, you waste money, you destroy state property, and then how do all these bad business moves make up for it? I'll tell you how. By transferring everything to the burden of citizens, a classic HDZ card. We have to pay taxes on the railway when we buy fuel for the car and so on, I don't know how long, but if 15 or 20 years, then I ask you nicely that, if nothing else, there can be a contribution to this debate of mine, then I call on you to create conditions for the fuel tax to be paid for the Croatian railway infrastructure to finally be abolished. Well, then at least on that side, we don't have to suffer any damage if we're giving that much out of the budget as taxpayers for HH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126410	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague of the Goddess Macar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126411	... I just couldn't help but react to your claim that no train in the Republic of Croatia ever came in time. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I don't know if you do, but I personally quite often use HZ services and from objective circumstances, it is true that sometimes they are late, but first of all, I will commend the exceptional kindness and correctness of the staff on the train who are really trying to be at the service of all passengers and inform them of what they are late for. So, please, don't make such assessments, no matter what it is, that we have a long-term infrastructure, that there are various problems in HH, but this really doesn't stand, that claim you made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126412	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Macar. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126413	Thank you very much, Commissioner Macar. Well, I don't know, here, you probably had a need to say that you're on a train. And that's nice, and I've been riding the train, too, but that's not the point of this debate right now. What's important is that it's us in the Living Wall that stands up for HH workers. They really do, and as you said, love itself is maximum, but our goal is to put an expert administration. So my criticism, or our criticism, is heading towards a mismanagement of HH. And it is known why administrations mismanage, because they came here on the principle of political similarities. And don't let me start with public competitions now, and how people are hired in HH. It is known a month in advance, before the competition is called for who will be employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126414	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Next replica, dear colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126415	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, you, I actually responded to that line of yours where you compared our railroad to Japan. It's like asking a question of where the Croatian flight program came into the moon or our space program, when you compare the situation we have with the situation as in Japan. What's the decision we need to make is whether we're going to develop the railroad, how we're going to develop, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, we're actually patching up what we have, aware of the fact that what we have is not good, and it's a key decision and we're not going to be in five years or over 10 years, if we decide that the railroad is the infrastructure in which it's being invested, in which it's being developed at the state level, which at the local level and the first result you can see over 10 years, you can't go before and then it's just a question where it's going to... But at least we know we're developing a railroad, at some point we don't even know it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126416	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126417	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mrak Taritaš, you are right when you say that Croatia cannot compare with Japan because Japan is a power in all possible areas for Croatia, but we could move at least for that Austro-Hungarian gabarite means that trains drive a little faster, to be a little more accurate, to make the railways a little more comfortable, to tell them a little bit more developed, that maybe we don't have one track, etc. If you're asking me personally in the Living Wall if we're in favour of the railway developing, that's what we are. We're about to develop at all levels, so on the intercity lines, both on the city and on the option, in some future even the subway, we think that's essentially the future, that it's more environmentally acceptable. I repeat once again, cheaper and safer and should certainly replace this car traffic as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126418	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. The next replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126419	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, I must correct you for the public, namely you said that the slopes of the trains do not tend, that they did not lean. Namely, they tended, they fasted higher speeds than classical trains do. I personally took part in the preparation of the rules for the introduction into the traffic of these tilt trains, however the problem with tilt trains is quite other types, they were bought for the wrong purpose. Tire trains are used for suburban transport and traffic between cities. So for cross-city and suburban traffic and they were bought for transport between Zagreb and Split, means for a very long relationship and there is a major failure, and I don't know what I'm going to say money for these trains, they shouldn't have been bought, there is no room for tilt trains in Croatia, there have never been a need in Croatia, that's the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126420	Thank you. Answer, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126421	Thank you, well-respected representative Alexic, for the correction, of course you come from the company of the Croatian Railways, so you know better, but it is a matter that we can agree on, meaning that the tilt trains have not fulfilled their function or that the money is spent in vain. As far as I know, of these 8 trains that have been bought, only 1 is still in operation, 7 is parked even though they are not so old, only 15 years old, it is not the first bad business of the Croatian railways that have pulled tens and tens of billions of kunas out of the budget in the past three decades and we see that everyone who can, who does not have the power to avoid trains and drive by car, bus, anything, means practically, how much I know only students, students and so some man who doesn't have a car choose for the railroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126422	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126423	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I've been a railroadman since '88. In 2016, I worked on Croatian railways, more specifically in Croatian railways, we always say on but it is actually true in Croatian railways. I was a train driver, I was a traffic dispatcher, I was a school instructor. The last year before joining the Croatian Parliament was 17 years, I worked on making traffic regulations. I know this system of the simplest jobs that may be simple in the sense that they don't require high professional equipment, but they're not that simple when they're being done, so I know these simplest jobs, so to the most complicated ones, I know this system really in the soul and simply the main problem with that system isn't this railway law that we're discussing today because the Law on Railways gives good frameworks, the Law on Railways that we're going to bring, I'm going to personally support it, there's no reason not to support it, I don't have any special grudges under the law, the problem is with us that we don't know how to develop our rails so we'll get back to those times when I was working and how it's done today. I was working on a one-way line while I was working as a train driver, and I knew that in one night shift it would pass at 12 o'clock 90 or 100 trains. That's how much today might not go on a two-wheel rail. That's how much today doesn't go on the one-way track in 24 hours. So he's cut down on this transport. It was known in the cargo section of Kutina Station that in one, 24 hours a total of 24 trains were received. Do you know what it is for a station on a one-way track? 24 trains, it's a huge, huge job. When I was doing my first night shift on my own, so unsupervised, when I passed my professional exam, I got so swept up, so many trains went through the station, so many crosses and all that, at one point, I turned on the exit of the train from the back. I turned on the exit of the train and the train was standing, not going anywhere. How's it going? Well, of course it stands when it's green on the opposite side. I just want to get a little closer to how much work we were doing back then. And people used to talk about train traffic, that's the one who waves, has a red hat, whistles and waves. And it's not a train trafficker, it's actually something like a flight controller. So he runs the train traffic between the station. After a night shift, a man really feels very tired. Today, I believe it's not exactly like that. It's not because there aren't so many trains first, there's at least twice as many as before, it's not because the speeds are much less. What's going on today? Today it happens that the freight train is going slowly in front of the passenger train and the passenger train cannot catch it, not that it cannot catch it, but it is the same speed and freight and passenger train. So, on the railway section between Savsko Marof and Zagreb, the freight train can drive at a maximum speed of 60 km/h and the passenger train must also not drive at a speed greater than 60 km/h, so the freight train when it leaves in front of the passenger train, the train for the transport of passengers cannot arrive by the freight train and therefore it is also much easier to work because it does not require crossovers, so the work is much easier, but in fact, in 2019, the work is easier on the railway than in 1990, it is our sadness and sadness. How do you change that? Well, we can only change that by putting the strategic railroad first. We have to return those goods flows and the flows of passengers we had before the war, at least 70% of what we had, it's not possible maybe 100%, but 70% if we returned, we'd do a big job. How is it possible that one Luka Kopar has primate in front of Luke Rijeka? As far as that low-level railroad that's been talking about, it's been going on since the '60s, it seems to me, it's been running through the media all the time, but nothing's ever done about it, so somehow I don't think it's going to do anything now. We've reportedly had this Chinese offer, I don't know if it's going to be any of it or not, whether we Chinese are allowed to work for the EU, because of the US, because of the interests of some others, I don't know if we as a sovereign country can put our priorities first in situations where we don't have competition at all, because there's really no competition for someone who really has capital, who has technology, technology and everything that is necessary and who can build it and do it the way that suits us. The variety of safety devices on the track is also one problem. We should have a whole network of uniform security devices. In order to achieve this, we should probably look at the wider picture, not go by the stocks, but I don't know, I don't know, I don't really understand too much about public procurement, I don't know if it's possible, but it would be necessary and it would be good for public procurement to work at the level of the entire network, that the contracts are being done strategically for 10, 15, 20 years, that similar devices are being installed and that maintenance is being secured for the next 10, 20 years, and not that we're no longer having the situation that has been happening to us in recent years, that there are no more spare devices, spare parts for some security device that is just being installed, and then there has to be a change of complete technology because there are no more of these spare parts that are needed for this particular device. Lately, I've been seeing media reports of road vehicles coming across a raised ramp, and the train is passing through the tracks. And now I don't find HZ's dementia, so I wonder what actually happened. Because what's this about? There is a possibility that a road crossing insurance device could be damaged, in which case, of course, the ramp was raised, but there is also a regulation on how the train or the driver behaves in that case. The driver in that situation must stand before the road crossing, he must see if there are vehicles on the road and then continue driving 10 km/h until he crosses the road crossing and then increase the speed. And now, of course, it can happen that the train, on half the train already, half the train has already passed that road crossing, there's a vehicle, he shoots a cell phone and says, "Here it is again, these don't work right, and it doesn't have to be, I don't know, I didn't notice much of the denial, because I think we have to work on that HZ depending on which segment it is, Carrier or Infrastructure, quickly reacts to such situations in the media where the railway is written badly, and it doesn't have to be that the railroad did something wrong. I wouldn't be too long, in fact, not much to say, it's all up to the government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia must determine one strategy that should be long-term for the next 10, 15, 20 years, must put the railroad on pedestal, I think the road lobby has done its job, the road lobby certainly played a big part in the railway stagnating all these decades I would say, and it is time for it to change and for the railroad as one cheap, environmentally acceptable and comfortable transport to come first. If the railroad gets the speed it needs, and we don't need any huge speeds, we don't even need some electronic devices, we drive a classic railroad up to 160 km/h, we don't need any special procedure for it, but a simple classic railroad and a classic railroad, and that's up to 160 km/h, we don't need to go more than that, if those 30-year-old trains do that, they'll drive fast enough to get people back to the railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126424	I thank my colleague Alexic for this debate. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126425	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I want to look back at my debate about the Law on Railways. By listening to the day-long debate, we had more or less insight into the experience of travel with HZ, more or less descriptions, except for Mr Alexic, who has now given certain strategic goals that should be met, I have heard nothing that is wrong with this law, except that the whole system of railways is simply wrong as a fundamental definition of why everything should be replaced, from the government to the last one that works on the station and these are some sort of solutions. I think that this law, which is a follow-up to the one from 2013 and 2017, is nevertheless in an attempt to comply with the 4th railway package, to improve with what we have so far, and to focus most on the one that is the main operator of the railway infrastructure, of the very structure, of the regulatory measures, this way of financing the basic railway network and, as such, sets the system in line with the system that we have in the community, in the EU and reflects the current situation or possibilities with some space left behind that in certain situations where it is not in our favor, we can react and create certain measures in terms of access to the railway infrastructure in order not to disrupt the existing situation that is not best and we all know that. It's so easy, it's just that we've heard that for 60 years it's been handled in a similar way, the ones that have solutions for everyone on the other hand. In one neighbouring country, in nine months, they brought her into recession, so we should not be surprised at what they might expect, given their experience of how long they've traveled and how long they've been driving to their own destinations, and that's the only problem this country has in terms of the railroad, without looking at the part that's been talking about the report, what the railways have been doing for years since 2011-2017 with data that have been deuting them or speaking to them for their benefit. Many of the data that are official and I guess we're behind them, I think they're being denied in almost everything, but well, I say, each of us has the right to speak politically as I think is most effective and best. What is the task of this legislative framework? Certainly the independence of the infrastructure manager which must ensure non-discriminatory access to infrastructure. It simply means in terms of the route and in terms of compensation that one should follow. Management and maintenance, i.e. It builds a rail infrastructure, so that if someone else does so, it has the right to control all functions assigned to external operators. The issue of funding has been resolved or an article is set. 18 where the most significant income that this assembly has been talking about for years, 20 limes from the price of gasoline, and then we heard the solution, let's cut it out and make all the railways and get new trains and drive 300 per hour. This is how they are solved, I say problems in Croatia, and we simply have the easiest load of gasoline and solve everything around us very effectively. As far as access is concerned, I say to the railway infrastructure, according to what we see, we had 7 freight operators in 2017 and one only, if I have seen correctly, it is HZ Passenger transport in the transport of passengers, who are transporting or transporting cargo. If the situation wasn't simple on the railroad, it's also the fact that we have, I say, a infrastructure network of 2605 km, of which international railways are 1460, regional and local 1145 km. 545 stations and stops, 1512 crossings, 109 tunnels, 238 bridges. When we add 4070 turns to this, it is clear that the system is not easy or easy to maintain, because on all of it to be awake daily, and daily on these railways, 640 passenger trains and 200 freight trains travel according to the data. No matter how much we thought there was nothing there. It's just that the biggest problem is maybe it's part of the electrified railroads that are all 980 km away from the 2605 we have in total. And if the state didn't do anything, then the report wouldn't say how much was invested in 2017 in building railway infrastructure. This amount of €470 million is not insignificant and certainly one advance in terms of what the railways have determined is important to them in order to make certain corridors even more competitive. We have the construction of the route Long Village-Križevci and the beginning of the route Gradec-St. Ivan Frogno. Signed contract on the Zaprešić-Zabok route, 615 million kn. Surely we would all like a billion and a half kn or two billion, and the EU would give us a billion and 700 and we would settle it in a year. Operationally, I'm not sure that we're able to solve it with regard to our construction system or the construction sector more than what's happening now in the course of the year. And then we get to the speed of the trains. By comparing 2011 and 2017, we have the fact that there is a small drop in speed, and the report says that this fall is actually the most reason, not the railways but the faults of the trains themselves. The fact that maintenance or malfunctions create certain problems that are then reflected in the time of travel. As for increased use of rail infrastructure measured in train miles, we must also say that we are the cheapest in the EU and our fee, except for Dutch, if I have seen correctly, is only 6 times smaller than on average the EU. Are there opportunities for us to be more expensive, i.e. that we are creating some incomes that are not then related to other sources that are at.../incomprehensible/... Same thing, that's when we talk about passenger transport, freight, and fees are even lower. It's a question of the competitiveness of our railroads. As regards the transport of goods and goods, the most looking at 4 transport segments, means maritime, road, rail and air and comparing year 2012 and 2017, it is clear that not only rail records the fall, but also the air and road transport, along with the huge investments we had in the highways and all airports. That means there's a problem that makes something happen. The only one that records an increase in transport is maritime transport and in 2012 compared to 2018 we have an increase of 2 million passengers. When we look at everyone else, I say both burdens and everything, it's clear that that's where the railroads failed and there's a reason. Is the cause of insufficient traffic i.e. the burden we have at Rijeka port, whether the reason for the deindustrialisation of the state in the sense that the former large users in terms of industry were missing, so just a question, I don't know, of a coke shop in Bakra or a hardware store in Sisak was a daily traffic issue of 40 trains or more in both directions. These are not insignificant inputs to just so, I say, talk about everything in this country being wrong and whatever we look at makes us unhappy. It is certain that the state is making the shifts as much as it can. There is no strong or accelerated construction of railways because they are not the same materials as the roads, yet there are specificities that we cannot lead to that our operations, our engineers and everyone else being able to perform in just one easy way. With such construction procedures, it is obvious that some other experts and people who can do so must be caught in the face of this railway law and what it offers, I believe that it is a greater step than what we have so far written in the sense that it fundamentally determines the rules in which this fundamental operator of the system must act fundamentally in terms of the commitments made to the EU itself and what must seem to all others to have a decent one. equal access to the entire infrastructure as it should be or as it is in other EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126426	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, we have replicas. Dear fellow Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, I thank you very much for all the information you have tried to present, but I congratulate you on what you have admitted not to invest in railways and railways at all. When you said at the outset that we had not debated the law, we initially said that the law, which is in line with European directives, is okay, but the law will only be boasted as ruling that you have passed another law, and the railroad is practically not. And that's why I'm going to suggest to you, that we transfer from this railway ministry to the Ministry of Culture's intelligence, because as you wanted to close the railroad in Istria, it becomes a monument of culture and cultural good because now that railroad looks like a museum specimen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126428	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126429	Thank you very much. I'm glad to see your colleague Demetlik here that's how you approach this subject. That's how you approached both the shipbuilding and the Uljanika and we see how it ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126430	I thank my colleague, Boric. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126431	Dear colleague Boric, you said that this kind of flat-rate rail solution will not get us anywhere. I'll be back, and since I spent many years on the railroad, in 2000, 2001, and then actually started to get rid of the railroad and all this time, all governments have suffered the consequences of the decisions so far. Since the acquisition of those famous slope trains, which no longer drives, and we still pay them in many millions of kn, I don't know from the partial solving of all the problems, since the breakdown of one structure that worked very well until the 2000s, you mentioned it yourself, you've driven thousands of tons of cargo from the Rijeka harbor, from the copper pool, from Ploč, so until it goes into studio solving this problem, we'll continue to act like drunk billionaires because it's not a fact and it's not true that what you said is not being invested in the railways at all, Mr. Demetlik, in the railways, we're still going to act as drunk billionaires because it's not a fact and it's not true that what you said is not investing in the railways at all, Mr. Demetlik, in railways It's quite an investment, but it wasn't invested the way it was. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Klaric.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126432	Reply from fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126433	Thank you very much. Just for the sake of the public, I didn't say that this government or anyone who has a flat-rate railway issue is being dealt with, rather than having a flat-rate solution on the side of the opposition today during the whole debate, which then solves this issue the way they think it is best, are mostly comments about how someone has traveled and how well or conveniently it has come to a specific destination. The fact is, I also cited how much was invested in 2017, we have no data for 2018, but I think it is similar somewhere, at a level of over half a billion kn, that we have two directions to build, to use EU funds, and some topics will never be closed, such as the theme of mergers means Istria with this part of Croatia in terms of the railway, and this is a question that will probably also be discussed by the ministry that should run this story.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126434	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126435	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, Boric, you said, means that we are on the other side of the flatulence, but I'm asking myself at the time when a man's vessel landed on Mars, when it didn't leave the solar system, we have a railroad like we have today and the speeds we have. In 86, when I was in college, I was driving on a fast train from Kutina to Zagreb for 53 minutes, today I drive for an hour and 27 minutes despite being reconstructed from Zagreb to Dugi Selo. I'm asking if you're satisfied with such railroads and if we should really solve these railroads in some other way. And these 27 years, I don't know who had the most chance to solve HZ's problems and what was going on and who distributed it to so many small companies that eventually went where they went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126436	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126437	Thank you very much. You know as well as I do, colleague Lenart, because at the same time we were State Secretarys that you made your contribution to HDZ governments, especially in the ministry that was just dealing with the railways issue. I didn't see your contribution because you were at the time engaged in tourism and the number of nights. So you can't run away from yourself, exculpate yourself from some sort of own responsibility in all of this, but I'm saying simply not admitting that nothing is happening, I disagree with the team, this country is currently doing what it can. Can we borrow as we did for highways, I think we can no longer and there are models that are now here and listed in the law how we develop infrastructure and who is in charge of it. But to say there's nothing wrong, nothing works with that, so I don't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126438	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126439	Dear Vice President, Article 238 is a constant insult. My colleague Shuker and my colleague, Boris, if you mind if I was the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism, I was in the best ministry at the time and I did my job well unlike you. You were one of the finance ministers at Sanader's and the other one couldn't exactly brag about someone else. ... No. I wasn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not at Sanader's, but Mrs. Kosor's. ... [[Intruding Brkić: Dear colleague Schuker, please.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126440	Dear colleague Shuker, I have not given you my word, and please do not enter the word of your colleague, and do not do what you do not want others to do to you, and do not use the Institute of Injuries to the Rules of Procedure in the future. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126441	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Minister Boris, you mentioned how this law now prescribes something and what you mentioned is nothing new, the independence of the infrastructure manager exists already and now, all of what we have under the new law we have and according to this law that we now have. But I'd like to ask you something else than I didn't realize from your presentation. Do you think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should strategically put railways on top of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and develop them for the next 10 years in a way that they finally reach some level of medium-developed European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126442	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126443	Thank you very much. A colleague, Alexic, after two years of dealing with the problem of resolution, means to refinance or reprogramme all loans in highways to create a sustainable system that can restore the loans that have been taken to build that infrastructure. After many projects we have and investments in the airports of Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, etc., and in the ports of state importance when we talk about maritime transport plus the county ports, I also think that the only railways left and which I also think are pushed into the first plan that we should in the next 10 years with the help of the EU and the resources available to us, when conditions are created for this, see the HACOM report and the state of certain projects on the southernmost corridor, beautifully drawn there and written at which stage, at least in 2017, we hope that we have made a step in 2018 so that we can assess whether we have time in 10 years to do what is important to us, not looking at every single small local or regional route.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126444	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply, the next replica of my esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126445	So, in your debate, you spoke about the railway approach. I think it is certainly important to mention that both railways and all other modes of transport must be accessible to people with disabilities. It is important to mention that a few years ago we couldn't even dream about it and that today we can still see that our trains are adjusted, we're still not satisfied, of course. But here's the secretary of state here personally and her colleagues along with the movement of people with disabilities are doing everything in order to adapt all modes of transportation to people with disabilities in the city, here I would say to the general satisfaction and not just to them, but to everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126446	I thank my colleague Lukacic. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126447	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, I agree with you that we need to pass this law, that we have a legislative framework in line with European legislation. I also agree with you that you cannot improve the situation in the railway overnight especially without investment. You said 470 million kuna was invested and it stopped. However, more than 17 billion were to be invested under the national plan. Why isn't it invested? Who's responsible? You say you should replace administrations, supervisory committees, workers, traffickers. No, and those ministers who didn't take care of it should be replaced by administrations and supervisory committees, and workers were doing their job properly. And that transporter whistled and waved neatly and said it wasn't the right track, that the railway crossings had to be solved, that it should be invested and the trains had passed and nothing had changed. Yes, trains pass, or caravans pass and industry falls on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126448	I thank my colleague. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126449	My colleague Vlaovic, I didn't say that you should change what you have now added, so you made it up so that... No, no, no, you added that to yourself to have the effect, so we could say something at all because the fact is that these people who work on the railroad are carriers of a system like this that doesn't seem to be right for you and now you're praising them because they're the only ones that actually make up the system. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's not true. The system is being upgraded to the extent possible. And who wouldn't be happy to spend 10 billion and set up the system in a year? If we have such opportunities, let's be realistic, let's be realistic. 10 billion could not be invested in highways, let alone building railways that are a little more sophisticated building than any road or highway. And just because it looks easy on you, it doesn't seem like it to some people. And that you're approaching that everyone needs to be replaced in order for you to fix it, and I disagree, and that's what the citizens are going to end up estimating on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126450	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126451	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric, you know what is strange to me, all the renowned consulting houses and the World Bank, when they came and talked about Croatian railways in Croatia, came from something called the employment ratio, which is what it is like in Croatia, how much on the earned kuna of Croatian railways the state needs to secure from the budget and that is the key question. All that is said today is here, and that is what is said when the budget is adopted. The employment ratio in 2004 was 1 versus 2.85, on the earned kuna of the state budget, 2.85 that it could exist, in 2010, that was, 1.85 today I didn't hear that data. But also, when we speak to springs, those who have criticised today, let them remember, as they have explained, why spring buildings cannot run for the long-term Long Village of Križevci, which is financed from European funds. So, a lot of ignorance of the population of politics, for a very, very life-threatening topic, in which Croatian citizens have, in the past 3 years... Billions, and a few billion more guarantees coming in next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126452	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126453	Thank you very much, colleague Shuker, I'm glad that it's evolved, now finally one real debate, when we talk about arguments, watching what they offered in these, some time there in 2011-2015, they were corners. Orders of trains, which need to come to infrastructure that is as controversial. And what we got from all of that, plus one period of 200-2003 when the first three were obtained, if I'm not wrong about the tilt trains, which we can tell stories about today. There was simply no strategy, no great responsibility. And when you try to fix it, when you try to be responsible, you experience it means only negative and criticism without any solution. I think that no matter how much we want, what the state is giving today, it gives in accordance with its capabilities, and how much we're willing to use the funds and projects from that free space or free funds depends on us, and that's why this minister and this government will be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126454	I would like to thank my colleague, Boric, the next replica of my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126455	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We are all aware that without long-term planning, there are no better solutions for the Croatian railway, and here we have heard today that it is the setting up of books, i.e. the rights of ownership, i.e. the definition of property between Croatian railway companies, the adoption of a national strategy and only by removing remaining legal and administrative barriers, we can improve the quality and efficiency of Croatian railways. And one of these is the passing of this law, today, which is right here in front of us. Croatian railways are certainly something that has been invested in a lot of money and effort so far, and we are all here to, of course, try to help and speed up the quality of Croatian railways to improve and return at least to the one from a few years ago, when these trains were faster and more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126456	I thank my colleague. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126457	My colleague Maximchuk, I agree with you in everything you've said, because looking at what is currently being done, I'm also concerned that after 27 years, after starting or creating a state, we're just creating foundations to type in the infrastructure we use or type it in, I don't know, draw into the garter or sign up the property or create some kind of a cadastre of all these routes and everything else and that this law, right now, in the sense it offers improvements, but I say, colleagues on the other hand, they're all, against everything, because it's probably popular to be against everything today, and that maybe they haven't even looked at what it says in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126458	I thank my colleague, Boric. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126459	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Brnjak, with associates, associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Live Wall and SNAGA Club will support this proposal of the Law on Railways and this law is a good framework for some future strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, compared to the Croatian Railways. But so far we haven't had that strategy. I would now say a few words, about what I see as the main points of some kind that are needed, in order to even determine that strategy, if we don't meet those points, then we don't have a strategy. First, we need to determine what our priority is. Our priority should be those railways on which we already have significant traffic. What we have in reality cannot happen, that the railway, on which a huge number of passengers, such as the Sava Marof Zagreb railway, are transported, has the highest speed of 60km/h, is inadmissible. We have trains that are 40 years old that can drive faster than the railroad allows. This is inadmissible, therefore, these railways, such railways need to be given priority, because they generate profits, make even more profit, if they get more speed, and at a higher speed we'll have more comfort. Other railways need to explore their future, plan, see what goods flows and transport flows of passengers we expect and respond accordingly, whether these railways should be brought into the projected state, whether or not these railways should be reconstructed, whether they should be put into concession. Some local railways may need to be put in a concession, because it may not really make sense to keep them alive as a state, if a concessionary has some interest in it, why not. The next thing is personnel in the Croatian Railways. The Croatian railways, as well as the rest of the state public sector, lack a system of progress. As long as we don't have a measuring system of progress, the right people won't be doing those jobs they should be doing. I'm going to tell you one example from my practice, I was a union commissioner and I had to choose now a union commissioner for the next two years and each candidate should have submitted his proposal for the programme for the next two years. My program, the fundamental point of my program, was to install into the collective contract provisions on the system of progress. The main points of my other opponents were salary increases, better chairs in the workplaces, etc. things. I got all maybe two votes, so as a society, we're not really ready to fight for our place under the sun but rather wait for someone to take us by the ear and own us in some chair. It's a problem in our heads, we have a mentality problem. That we prefer to be set up than fight for your place under the sun based on your quality. So the progress system is very important, it is generally important to define a long-term strategy for the development of the rail system in this system of progress, in terms of which the railways have priority, but this system of progress may be a fundamental point to be set out. And finally, what I find very important is that I already mentioned in the individual debate is security devices on the track. This is one of the most important factors of rail transport because rail transport and rail transport have generally been considered a safe way of transport. Security is what was always characteristic for rail transport, rail transport. In order for this security to be at the highest level, it would be very important to have uniform security devices, and by equating these security devices, we are also reducing the price, and the price of purchase and maintenance prices and the general price of rail transport. Here I think I've said enough in the context of what I could, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126460	I thank my esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic. On behalf of the promoter, the final word, State Secretary, Ms. Nikolina Brnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126461	I thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives, let me thank you all at the end for this constructive debate. All of your opinions today go exactly in the direction that we all have a better railroad tomorrow and a better rail system. The government's strategic specifics are very clear and are now focused on the development of the railway system. I think it is very clear, especially through this Law on Railways, which today says as an important mechanism that we will achieve, and that will be achieved by adopting a 10-year sectoral strategy for the first time. So I wouldn't repeat more times what the strategic definitions of this government are, I think it's very clear now. You are also aware that without a valid legislative, and later institutional, and finally the implementation framework has no results. It is precisely this law in the future that creates a framework for an equal, transparent, non-discriminatory approach to rail infrastructure, opens competition and services of domestic passenger transport by introducing free access rights, and finally creates a framework for the adoption of a strategy for the development of the rail system in the Republic of Croatia, which should ultimately be and must be consistent with the long-term objectives of the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy. I am particularly pleased that this bill also strengthens the role of HACOM as a regulator and as an inspector of the application of the law. In our opinion, the role of HACOM in the conditions of liberalisation of passenger transport will be of great importance because HAKOM will, on the basis of the economic.../incomprehensible/..., be responsible for the possibility of entering new railway operators, because just last year as I mentioned, a 10-year PSO contract was concluded with HZ Travelling Transport to our national operator on the provision of rail passenger transport services, which covers the entire network of Croatian railways. When we talk about contracts, it is important to mention that the Ministry, based on the Strategy for the Development of the Railway System and the National Roadmap for the development of railway infrastructure in the near future, plans and conclusion of a multi-annual contract with HZ Infrastructure, which would naturally better regulate relations on the construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure and also in part of the organisation, regulation and management of rail transport itself. Once again, it is very important that legislative and strategic and strategic documents all agree on the reason why one of the colleagues of the parliamentary deputies mentioned why you do not implement the National Investment Plan in the railway infrastructure of 17.2 billion, so you tell me if it is realistic to leave it so the former government has left that plan, whether it is realistically planned, whether it has left and made sure that we have 17.2 billion for the railway system, is not. For this very reason, we have launched a revision of the National Investment Programme in railway infrastructure, for this very reason, to bring plans adequately according to the legal, strategic, strategic frameworks, because if we don't know what we want to do about our goals, then we can't even agree, we don't even know the price of our plans, and how can we know what our funding is. I would suggest that everyone look at this national programme today and from the former government that was made, what is the methodology of this plan, you can't connect absolutely any item you can't connect, and then draw a 17.2 billion conclusion. You did, you didn't. That is why for the first time through this Law on Railways, we bring a whole chapter called the development of the railway system. So read Article 17 which speaks about the strategy of adopting a sectoral strategy for 10 years and read Article 15, paragraph 15, which says, on the basis of the National Plan of the HH Infrastructure Manager, with the consent of the Ministry and the central authority of the State Administration responsible for Finance, adopts an annual plan for the construction, modernisation, renovation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure, which is part of the business plan of the infrastructure manager referred to in Article 20 of this Act. I repeat, if we don't know the target, we can't even get there. The vast majority of you here are familiar with the state of the railway and you will agree that there is a large space for progress on the construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure as well as the organisation and regulation and management of rail transport. I mentioned that all other reforms of the railway system that we have launched, the Law on Railways, the Law on Integrated Transport of Passengers and the Safety and Interoperability Act. So I mentioned earlier what the 4th railway package and the alignment with the technical and management pillar and the setting up of a European legislative framework for the provision of rail transport services. We also need to be able to provide a better and more organised rail system by all later laws and regulations resulting from these adopted proposals. So again, it would refer to an adequate legal and strategic framework to monitor the adequate funding of plans and programmes that will result from legislative and strategic proposals. So, how are you going to bring in a national development plan if you don't know where you're going, you don't have a sectoral strategy and you're bringing in national plans. It would point out that the assessment of the value of HH infrastructure investment is around 3 billion euros by 2030, on the core of the TNT network. At the beginning of 2017, only one contract from the OPC was signed, I don't know if anyone is aware of it and today we have over 25 total contracts of about 10 billion kuna, 32 contracts from the CEF, Connecting Europe Facilitity, totalling more than 57 and worth more than 12 billion. Now that is waiting for us, it is a challenge for companies that are users of these funds, tendering, works and implementation of these projects. Once again I would just point out that there is no need to break into the new organisation, we have heard several times certain detections of all of you, but this organisation should be based on professional bases, through a sectoral strategy, through national plans all of the positive but negative aspects and propose decisions to the Government and the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126462	I thank the secretary of state. We have a few replicas, a respected colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126463	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, today you could hear that a small piece was being debated by the very law where most clubs agreed and supported and that we talked about most of the problems in the railway. I am particularly interested in this second line of the Long Selo-Križevci, where the completion was planned in 2020, is this really going to happen in 2020? It is not only important to speed up this work and faster arrival from Križevci, from Koprivnica, but also from Varazdin because Varazdin-Koprivnica is fast driving for 36 minutes, we still have 68 minutes here, now 104 minutes to Zagreb, if it decreases, 15 minutes, it is a significant improvement because it is not true that only rail transport still uses here and there which student and student, but also benefits many of those who are employed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126464	I thank my colleague, Macar. Secretary of State Nikolina Brnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126465	Thank you. You are all aware that there have been certain implementation problems, what we have welcomed means with this project, a new subcontractor has been introduced, and I am convinced that everything is under control now and that HZ infrastructure along with the subcontractor will reach those target deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126466	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. Next replica, honorary colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126467	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, it is very unusual your final presentation anywhere you went to teach us a lesson that we do not know anything and that we do not understand it all together, neither the law nor anything else, so it was very inspiring to have your final presentation and a very interesting way to address all the parliamentary representatives and MPs but aside. What's my essential question, you referred to the strategy, and we all talked about the law in the debate, and we spoke affirmatively about this law, we talked about a series of problems that it has. I'm interested in where the strategy is, as far as we came with it, when we're going to have a chance to see it, when there's going to be action plans behind it that really what we said and in the debate, that we know about where we are, what we are and how we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126468	Thank you. Secretary of State Nikola Brnjak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126469	I'd like to thank everyone once again, I mean all the parliamentary deputies and MPs, thank you for the constructive debate that I really think was extremely constructive. As far as the sectoral strategy is concerned, we are already a project and task, and together with the World Bank we are working on a sustainable railway project, and they are one of our big partners, and with their great help, we are preparing ourselves this task which is currently on the evaluation and automatically so until the law has come out, we are already preparing a sectoral strategy and it should be according to the law means up to 2 years from the adoption of this law already in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126470	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126471	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the national plan was pre-named even though it was brought by the former government, it was carried out by experts from the Croatian Railways and I don't believe they missed that much, but it's bad that no funds were found to fund it. I support your efforts to make a real investment plan through the sectoral strategy, and I support what you said will be done in cooperation with the Croatian economy, so here I call and recommend that you consult and profession in Končar, in Đura Đakovic with special vehicles because there are knowledge about the construction of both cars and locomotives, especially Đure Đakovic for the construction of special wagons for special cargo and it has not been ordered for a long time, I think it would certainly help the survival of the company, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126472	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted all the debates scheduled for this agenda, I'm concluding the debate. And once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Nikolina Brnjak and her associates, Antonija Lovrić, lawyers at the ministry and sector chief Igor Radic, on reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break by 4:15. It's 3:50 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126473	Proposal for a Law on Railways, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 555. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Railways and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous to 102 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126474	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,15 HOURS]] We continue with the work of the plenary session. It is next: - Final proposal of the Law on Social Labour, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 405 The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia This Regulation shall enter into force on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I'd like to call upon the proposer's representative, the secretary of state, Mrs. President. To Maria Pleikos, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126475	Thank you. Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The aim of the adoption of a new Social Labour Act is to improve the quality of social work activities in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the law in question will ensure the current level of professional competences, persons engaged in social work, in particular through the transfer of competences of recognition of foreign professional qualifications, to the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. At its 9th session, the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Social Labour Act. The proposal for the Law was adopted in the conclusion of 28 September 2018, the Final Proposal for the Law, in most respects the proposals and remarks presented in the debate before the working bodies and in the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and further nomotechnical and linguistically improved. For the purpose of clarity of the rules, the conditions for the recognition of the right to carry out social work activities are clearer, i.e. the amendments to the provisions which regulated the granting of an authorisation for independent work. The status of authorised social worker shall be introduced, which shall be obtained through the recognition of the right to carry out the activities of social work. It is accepted to note the day in relation to professional training and the right to acquire specialised professional competences with the aim of promoting lifelong learning and protecting standards and quality. Also accepted is the observation of better equalization, i.e. the classification of first-rates and magistrates of social work, as well as the observation regarding the lack of disciplinary measures. The proposal was abandoned to introduce representatives of social care ministries and Croatian social workers' associations into the chamber's board of directors. An objection has been accepted in relation to the absence, the regulation of possibilities, the passing of professional examinations at the chamber, and the final proposal for the law provides for an examination of the expertise and competences of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, as one of the possible conditions for granting approval, for the recognition of the right to carry out the social work activity. In addition, the chamber shall be empowered to regulate the way in which the content, deadlines and procedure of professional training is implemented, with the prior consent of the Minister in charge of social care affairs. The social worker, who has acquired the right to carry out social work activities, is considered to be a privileged social worker, based on a valid law on the activity of social work, the entry into force of this law. On the other proposals and opinions given in the first reading, the applicant provided more detailed reasons why he could not accept the proposal. Following this, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Social Labour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126476	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We have replicas, dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126477	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, at first I must express my satisfaction that the ministry is in principle with Minister Murganic, has really discussed the proposals in detail and independently, of which political options, of which the MP and the representative came, I think that the dissatisfaction of professional bodies, primarily the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Association of Social Workers, workers, most of these remarks was incorporated in the final draft of the law. I'm just curious, therefore, as it was resolved, given that we discussed this on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, as the issue of trainees and traineeships with this law was resolved, because there were questions regarding the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126478	Thank you. The Secretary of State's reply, Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126479	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. The current law on the activity of social work does not regulate the traineeship. The final proposal does not regulate the training experience which is regulated by another regulation regarding the passing of an expert and state expert examination, the possibility of the Chamber also having an expert knowledge and competence exam, and it is arranged that the contents and methods of conducting tests, expertise and competences will be arranged by means of a general act, with the prior consent of the Minister in charge of social work affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126480	I would like to thank the secretary of state, the next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126481	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Some technique didn't work, so. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, I am pleased and welcome between these two readings all what my colleague Celic said, I think he attended during the entire debate and it is good that certain proposals were adopted even though you were speaking about them at the time and in the debate, or representatives of the Ministry. In the adoption of one Law or the initiation itself, and this is the last thing until the final proposal is adopted is some 18, 19 steps that are very important. In this Law on Social Affairs, social affairs activities in the very context of the Law and the 30 such matters related to social affairs, I think it is a good thing that certain remarks have been adopted because they will help greatly with this final proposal of the Law. The most important thing. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Babic]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126482	Thank you very much. Nothing, let's move on. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? Here you go. President of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Ines Fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126483	I welcome Mr. Chairman and Representative of the Ministry. I think it's also important to hear how the Committee discussed this law. So, at the 63rd session, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the final proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Work in Second Reading as a Parent Working Body. In the opening part of the proposal, the Commission pointed out the objective of adopting a new Law to be seen to improve the quality of social work in the Republic of Croatia through the coordination of social work activities with modern scientific settings, clearer regulation of conditions for the implementation and termination of activities, rights and obligations of professional training, and the organisation of activities. In the discussion, the Committee members expressed satisfaction that many solutions were accepted in the text of the final proposal of the Law in relation to the proposal for the Law in the first reading, which were mostly proposed to the Committee. The Committee’s observations were also accepted, and 33rd, before. In 60th, it was amended to abandon the proposal to introduce representatives of the Ministry of Social Care and the Croatian Association of Social Workers into the Management Committee of the Chamber. The observation of the day in relation to professional training is also accepted, and the right to professional training of authorised social workers is prescribed, as well as the right to acquire specialised professional competences with the aim of promoting lifelong learning and protecting standards and quality. The members of the Committee also praised, which is also in relation to the first reading, the comment was accepted on the distinction between the first-timers and the magistrates, and also added to the article. 18. Furthermore, in the discussion, some members of the Committee submitted a proposal to set out a legal solution in the proposal for a Law on Psychological Activity, which should also introduce a specific chapter and articles related to the training course. They were also of the opinion that they should be left out in the first chapters of both the legal acts on acquisition and the loss of the right to exercise activity, the taxation of criminal acts under their heads and numbers. However, the proposer explained that such an explicit, means that all criminal acts are cited when social workers lose their right to a licence, in line with the Ministry of Justice, which required such taxing. Furthermore, the possibility of specialising in a particular area has been praised, which certainly represents a step forward in the way of performing the social work activities. However, the representatives of the profession were of the opinion that science, which they thought was used in the wrong context, should be left out here, which would be a good thing to replace some other word that does not raise the question of what areas of science are, as these areas are clearly defined by the Law. All the members of the Committee agreed to ensure the proposed Law, not only the current level of professional competences of persons performing the social work but also to improve the overall activity that is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and unanimously supported the proposal for this Social Labour Act at this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126484	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. I am opening a debate on behalf of the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, again colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126485	Yes, thanks again to everyone, I will only be a couple, a few more views, although ultimately this proposal of the Law of the Most Independent Lists will support because we think it is good and I would like to stress that the activity of social work is an activity that directly affects social inclusion, the protection of sensitive groups and groups with special interests and needs, the expansion of access to social care, and ensuring the financial sustainability of the welfare system. Therefore, the social care system in the Republic of Croatia is one of the most complex systems through which social benefits and services are provided, conduct family legal protection procedures and other procedures, and only in 2018 was provided by 81 Social Care Centres with 54 Branches, 68 Homes and Centres for the provision of services in the community with 18 Branches and 9 Dislocated Units, established by the Republic of Croatia, in 45 decentralised homes for elderly and severely ill persons, 360 providers of other founders and 2943 foster families, i.e. a total of 3497 natural and legal persons. This needs to be stressed once again in order to actually see how deep this activity has gone through all the parts and many levels that we really need to think about in the Republic of Croatia. So social care centres are established in accordance with the number of inhabitants and population density in a given area, size of the area, number and type of users, and their share in the total population, but what is still a fact is that they are not evenly distributed throughout the Republic and that inequality is something to think about. Therefore, inequality is due to the type and scope of specific problems and difficulties that prevail in certain areas, which should be considered. The number of foster families, which also means that they are incompletely unequal in the Republic itself, should be considered geographical features, traffic connections, and therefore the Social Care Centres should have a slightly different network and, as I said, connect differently all those users who need their help. What I would like to say is, therefore, the Social Centres as bodies with public authority in the social care system according to different laws have as much as 145 public powers, which shows the complexity of jobs and the weight of each expert's role, which can sometimes lead to a lack of focus on the needs of users and a reduction in the quality of work in social care centres. And there we are, in fact, coming to what we wanted, what the promoter wanted and regulated by this law, which is that the applicable law on the activity of social work was not clear enough to regulate the competences of social workers carrying out the social work in the Republic of Croatia and the vague definition showed, created a major problem in practice after the Law on regulated professions entered into force. Therefore, this law will allow social work activities of persons who have acquired and diplomas outside the Republic of Croatia whose professional competences are not sufficient to carry out social work activities in accordance with the Law on Social Labour in the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications because we are faced with the situation because this is a required profession to end somewhere in order to end education and education for a social worker of unequal quality, what is said quickly and afterwards enters our system and it is necessary to regulate it. There are two other things to talk about when we think about social workers, so their competences are very broad. And because they are facing each of the families who need their services where they enter very, very difficult situations, very often conflicts that are present in the dynamics of certain families. And it is alarming that they are, and should once again be shown, highly exposed to attacks, verbal and occasional and physical attacks, and they simply seek protection, a protection that has not yet come from the full regulation of this legal framework. And for this reason, the Chamber of Social Workers on several occasions and in January this year made an appeal and an open letter to the public to seek greater protection for social workers. That's one aspect. Another aspect is that this law must regulate the quality of the work of social workers that we really know objectively for a part of them not to do their job. So from the fact that it took a lot of time to start in a way through the chamber and take away licenses and process certain social workers who directly wronged some children who had not been taken away in a timely manner, who even ended up in a death case like the one in Pula. On several occasions there have also been cases where they have not noticed what is happening in certain families, they have not taken the seriousness of the situation enough and it has ended badly, some children have stayed in families where they have been abused for too long and for many years. And then we rightly have to say that such social workers are throwing a bad shadow at them, the biggest and most of them at all of them who are very good and responsible for doing their job. I would really like to point out once again that I am pleased with this look of the final bill because you are a lot of the remarks that I have made on the first proposal and respected but these were the remarks that came from communication with associations and chambers and all those who actually live on a daily basis in this job of social activity and social work. Thus, the proposal was amended in Article 3 which was to introduce representatives of the Ministry of Social Care and the Croatian Association of Social Workers to the Management Board of the Chambers, as it was not usual. You have also accepted the observation of the date in relation to professional training and have prescribed in Article 19 the right and obligation of professional training of authorised social workers as well as the right to acquire specialised professional competences with the aim of promoting lifelong learning and protecting standards and quality. The Chamber is therefore further authorised to regulate the way in which the contents, deadlines and professional training procedures are carried out, with the prior consent of the Minister in charge of social care affairs. You also accepted the observation that the inclusion of inadequate terminology is further regulated for the purpose of clarity of the rules and the conditions for the recognition of the right to perform social work or the amendments to the provisions governing the authorisation of independent work, the general authorisation and the status of authorised social worker acquired by the recognition of the right to carry out the social work when it is established that the legal requirements have been met and that, throughout the text of the final proposal, the social worker benefits and the concept of authorised social worker. Which is good. The observation of better equalisation is also accepted. the classification of graduates and social workers, and the same is added in Article 18. You've also accepted an objection regarding the lack of... Disciplinary measures and these are added in Articles 40 to 43. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the observations of the Committee on Health and Social Policy as well as of the Club of the Independent Lists in the current Article 57 in the way of decision-making of the Assembly and is now prescribed in a way that the decision is governed by the statutes of the Chamber and other general acts of the Chamber in accordance with the new Article 29 of the Law. We also accepted our observation of the lack of regulation of the possibility of passing professional examinations in the chamber for those working in the NGO sector and the need to determine the value of work in the chamber as a professional body, and the final proposal for a law prescribes an examination of the expertise and competences of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers as one of the possible conditions for granting approval for the recognition of the right to carry out social work. Finally, the proposal of the Most Representatives' Club on a clear indication of which the ministry is involved in the full text of the final draft law was adopted. So, the final draft of the law is good, and it's probably going to have some more objections over time to those which are specifically touched when they are implemented in practice, but I think we can be satisfied, and I think it's a commendable way of working with your ministry to respect the objections and objections and the positions and the boards and associations and chambers, and I think that's how the law that's going to come out and that calls for us all to support it. The MOST club of independent lists will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126486	Thanks to my colleague Ines Strenja, we are moving on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126487	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with an associate, here I find it quite simply and easily speaking after my colleague Strenja Linic, who has greatly praised this law and I am very pleased. The fact is that we have really agreed about this law and we all agreed on the board that it is good and I am extremely glad that the ministry has accepted a series of proposals constructive which, after or during the first reading, were delivered to the Ministry and it only speaks about how here and this ministry is really open to all possibilities of discussion and acceptance of what is quality. Therefore, before us the law is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Activity of Social Labour, which aims to improve the quality of social work in the Republic of Croatia through the inclusion of jobs in social work activities with modern scientific settings. What is extremely important is that, with the activity described so far, some other activities are being introduced, i.e. case management, social work intervention, psycho social support, early interventions, in particular I stress early interventions, assistance in involving in education and regular education programmes or so on. integration, social planning of professional and organisational support and the organisation and development of the community, and some provisions in this law are being amended. Why did I point out that I am particularly emphasising early intervention? Of course integration, when we talk about integration, because if our social workers are engaged in early intervention, not just them, but all of them, we're going to have a lot less of those people who are going to need their support later. We will have a much smaller person with disabilities because if you do everything at the earliest age of a child and give a maximum of the whole team, which is, of course, important for a social worker, there can be a better way of life and there can be physical damage in a person who does not even call for disability. This is what I look at every day and I can tell you that many social workers who consciously and honestly and correctly do their job have such experiences. Like I said, my personal long-term experience is with social workers, so I'm going to say half of them, there were beautiful people who really did their job the best they could, and believe me, there were those who didn't get to know each other. However, it is a matter of man, not all of us, and I look forward to saying that most social workers have done their job in an appropriate way. Everyday social workers, you like to say that in the best friends or enemies of people with disabilities, we often like to say that in a joke, because if they give you a favor she'll all say they're best friends, and if they're not able to believe it for some reason, then many will say, and they didn't give me what I asked for, so they didn't do their job well. It's not exactly like that and their work is really, really hard, I believe this law will allow social workers to do their job as best as possible. Here are just a few more things that change or introduce this law, one very, very important thing which is that this law introduces the possibility that a social worker may be asked to recognise the possession of special competences in the form of specific knowledge and skills specialized in a particular field of social work and the same, therefore, social worker of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers can recognise speciality in the solution. This speciality is entered in the chamber directory and this enables the development of the profession in specific areas. This final proposal makes it clear that the conditions for the recognition of the right to carry out social work, the conditions for the termination of the activity of social work and the relevant legal medicines are clearly laid down. Furthermore, in order to improve the conditions for the participation of persons engaged in the activity of social work on the market, the provisions so far relating to the exercise of private practice and the independent professional activity are united in the provisions relating to the performance of social work as a professional activity, and the conditions for implementation, suspension and termination are more clearly regulated. In addition, part of the competence is transferred to the Chamber, therefore, the adoption of a General Act which prescribes the conditions of space and equipment, as well as the manner of advertising and highlighting of the name, the place of performing social work as a professional activity, professional and other workers, and the composition and manner of the Committee which makes the findings on meeting the conditions. This Law, as I mentioned earlier, will certainly improve the quality of the work of social workers and I believe that social workers, as before, have worked for everyone, not only for people with disabilities, but I believe that they will all be satisfied with their work, and not only that, but I really firmly believe that the social workers themselves will be satisfied with this Law. This is very important because if social workers are not satisfied, then users cannot expect their quality work. I am convinced that after the adoption of this Law, when it enters into application, we will indeed have mutual satisfaction, it is personally important to me for all users of the social care system and not only social care, but also for all other systems because we know that social workers do not only work in the welfare system. So, like I said, it's important to me to all the users, but, look, let me have one speciality, it's important for me because people with disabilities, because they communicate daily with their social workers, and I'd say that their work, in a way, depends on the quality of life of people with disabilities. I believe, as I said here, that this will indeed happen, and I am extremely proud that we have reached one consensus, one great pleasure among all of us. And on the Committees, we had the opportunity to see this and that this is a good and quality law and here, respected colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126488	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic, for this debate. On behalf of the club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives, esteemed colleague Rechim Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126489	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, and since it is a late hour, and it has already been said quite a bit in the final proposal of the Law, I will only look back on the work and personal in the first reading, which we had here, and on the work of the Committee on Law and Labour of the Parental Committee on Health and Social Affairs. This seems to me to be one of the first cases in which we all express our satisfaction with the Final Proposal of the Law, at least in most. In fact, on the Committee on Health and Social Affairs, we have determined that as a proposing you have respected the mass of objections and consultations and with the Chamber, and with the social workers and with us in the final line, the MPs, so I do not need to repeat now what is in the final proposal of the Law, express and personal satisfaction that you have also accepted my personal objections to the bill, so I would just say that on behalf of the club of the Labour Party and the solidarity of the independent representatives that we will strongly support the adoption of this Act, the Final Proposal of the Social Act. What I'd just like to warn you is already here from this pay phone, it seems to me that a colleague of Strenja was speaking, which is the work of social workers. No law will regulate that power because it's an invitation, it's not a trade, it has to be an invitation. If it's not an invitation, then we have these things happening to us, let's say, like in Pula, things that Ljubica's colleague warns us about, things that... I'm going to the case that we talked about here, the fires, the two dead old men, etc., I think that social workers, and by this law we're giving them everything we can, we should be more on the ground, more preventively acting, alerting all other services related to the social activity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as much preventive action as possible. We have provided them with everything we could provide, I absolutely and personally support them, and the club will support them. Just let me have the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, given the time away, the Law on Educational and Rehabilitation Activities, Psychological Activity and Social and Pedagogical Activity are still on the agenda and we will support these laws in our first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126490	Thank you very much. So you're giving up the debate on behalf of the club? Thank you very much. [[I'm giving up the debate.]] On behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126491	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the bill is good but our overall social care system is poor and inadequately arranged. On behalf of the club, I welcome the adoption of a new law and I will speak in a broader context because it is a very important activity involving a large number of users. That this activity is of significant interest to society is the fact that the profession of social work can be applied in almost all areas of human life from education and education, health, justice, civil society and many other activities. Since this activity is legally regulated only in 2011, there is a significant space for legal standards to be improved and thus to facilitate the implementation of the law itself as a clearer determination of the competence of social workers. I therefore repeat, I welcome every intention of the legislator to define the position as well as the rights and obligations of social workers and more clearly and more precisely, but I also highlight the problems encountered by the CZSS and all their employees. In particular, I am referring to excessive burden on employees with administrative affairs, insufficient number of professional staff, inadequate cooperation and coordination between centres and other institutions, and here I am primarily referring to the court and police and in some parts of our country and education and competent city offices. I also add to this the problem of insufficient and uncontinuous education that is of paramount importance in this activity. In addition, there are still centres that are not equipped enough, for example, there are centres that lack vehicles to go to the ground, and I say that because I hold as a key point that social workers need to be more involved in professional work on the ground, that they should be in direct communication with the local community if we really want a system that will act both preventively and in harmony with other state and local authorities as well as civil society organisations. Social workers should be provided with appropriate working conditions, they should act proactively, not only when a tragic case occurs. As for the final bill itself, I believe that there is room for improvement in the work relating to traineeship, social workers, trainees and the need for mentorship. I believe that in this final draft of the law, the proposer should have installed provisions relating to the traineeship, and above all, I am referring to the conditions of enrolment of the trainees in the social worker directory, the setting of the mentoring conditions during the traineeship, as well as the conditions which acquire the right to pass an expert examination because I am a position to get even more quality laws to those mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126492	Thank you, fellow Giovanni Sponzi. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. State secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So I have to say that at GLAS and HSU, we don't share this general enthusiasm shown here with this law or there are some illogicalities, non-sequtur and conflict between regulation in this law and in the Law on Educational Rehabilitators at purely technical level of regulation, so I'm going to make some of it in this and something in the next debate and ask you for clarifications in this respect. So it is regulated that all social workers must be enrolled in the chamber register, for example, unlike educational rehabilitators. It is said that 70% of social workers have been employed in the welfare system, it is also said that none of the social workers in the Republic of Croatia have performed private social work practices. So the question is what is with and where are those 30% of the social workers who are listed in the chamber register and are not used anywhere. A particularly important question, given the fact that it roughs up 10% of the real population living in the Republic of Croatia according to this data, are users of the social care system. So obviously every social worker is practically a dry need so that this system can work and we have here executed 1/3 over. The current licence for self-employed work shall be replaced by the status of authorised social worker, okay. What we consider problematic, therefore, in art. 10. Two things to ask for clarifications. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 10. says St. 2. professional activity is carried out by an authorised social worker who independently provides social services as a professional in accordance with the Law governing social services or a company or craftsmen registered to perform social work activities. I don't understand this and ask to be explained whether it means that if a social worker registers as a company, then it works not in accordance with this Act, but in accordance with the Company Act or if someone has crafts, which is particularly unclear to me, crafts to provide social services, what does that even mean to trade for social service? Then he's doing business in accordance with the Turning Law. So, that, please, to be further explained to me because it's absolutely unclear to me and I hope that what I think isn't true. Another problem in that same article. The 10th century is the 5th century, which says that persons and now refer to St. 4. who speak of persons who are engaged in the private activity of social work based in another country, in that section 4, they can carry out their social work in the Republic of Croatia permanently if they are entered in the social workers' register, okay. But what St. 5th said in St. 4, so, which we were just talking about with headquarters in another country, can carry out the social work activity and on a temporary or occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia without the obligation to register the seat and enrollment of social work activities in the social worker's directory. Be careful, these are not persons from other EU member states because they are not listed anywhere. So these are persons from any other country, let's say that it's most often expected to be from a similar speaking area, so, from the neighborhood. The law is very strict, as regards registration, rules and everything that social workers have to keep in and out of the Republic of Croatia, so those who have to respect, register, being in the directory, are detailed everything can be prescribed, and then suddenly someone can come from another country without being registered anywhere, without being in the social workers' directory and, let's say, as it says here, occasionally and temporarily, which means, one week or two weeks a month doing these same jobs without anything. Therefore, it should not be in the directory, it should not have any of these strict requirements to be made for social workers who want to deal with such a same activity in the Republic of Croatia, have their head office in the Republic of Croatia and are registered here. This sounds actually outrageous if there's no other explanation for it. So, the explanation from the EU member states doesn't apply to EU members because it's not written anywhere, so to say, okay, it's exactly the same in all these countries because, let's say, of common legal gains, so there's no further procedure to be done, but no, it's not being smuggled here, but it's being said this way that I read to you and I'm asking that you also give some explanation on the subject of what it means to introduce such strict criteria when it comes to social workers in the Republic, from the Republic, based in the Republic, and on the other hand, that someone who temporarily and occasionally wants to carry out this activity from another country, any other country in what it says, needs nothing. The chamber here is defined as a place and point that becomes actually a central place, the Chamber is here God and a beating, therefore, and in recognising education, diplomas acquired in other countries etc., but neither is this Chamber that otherwise thunders and dresses under this Law and probably it is good because it consists because it is a professional Association of Social Workers. However, on the other hand there is nothing to say about this topic if someone who does not have a seat in the Republic of Croatia wants to temporarily and occasionally deal with social, social services, therefore, provide this type of service in the Republic of Croatia, if there is no seat in the Republic of Croatia and does so temporarily and occasionally, the Chamber has nothing to say. It is interesting that, I will make a small partnership with the Law on Educational Rehabilitators, and I do not know why it is not uniform, so I would also ask for an explanation, so in Article 7 of the Social Workers, the right to perform social work if, and then a whole series of criteria, of which is the first, is a member of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, in the following text of the Chamber, in the case of educational rehabilitators, vice versa, this requirement is lifted. Also in Article 16 of this Act, the Chamber determines the price of certain services, in the Rehabilitators Act exactly the opposite, even calls for a Government Decision, I have that, when we discuss it, I will, I will quote exactly, the Government's decision to stimulate freedom of provision of services, therefore the free market on the basis of which this requirement is then abolished that the Chamber regulates the prices of certain services. So, in the case of social workers, the Law which is one end of each other, and on our agenda, the Chamber regulates service prices with social workers, and on the other hand the regulation of service prices by educational rehabilitators by the Chamber is lifted. Why is there such a difference, which is the thing, I can't figure it out, but please explain it to me. And finally, another discrepancy that may not even matter, but it shouldn't be, because it shows that regulation of this type of topic and these problems doesn't approach in one systematic way. So here it is required that the Chamber align its statute with the new Law in 12 months, the Chamber of Social Workers, so within a year, in the case of educational rehabilitators, the Chamber must do so within 6 months. Maybe it doesn't matter. But the question is why? If we have a very similar compatible, very similar comparative activity, if we have a new regulation, why at such points, and this last one may be just technical, but these first two I mentioned are not just technical. Therefore, neither the price fixing on the one hand, which is quite justified why not, in that Law on Educational Rehabilitators, and in the Law on Social Workers, it is explicitly said that the prices of certain services in people who provide these services will be regulated by the Chamber and that this is one of the tasks of the Chamber. So, then, depending on the answers and explanations that we get on these topics, we will decide in GLAS and HSU, whether we will support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126494	I thank my colleague Vesni Pusic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126495	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we are talking about, the Law on Social Labour, and now on the final proposal of the Law, what would be worth saying at the beginning, is that, yes, in the discussions that we are currently having here, and that were between, which were in the first reading, and then the things that occurred between these two readings, and contacting the profession, somehow led to the fact that, to one general, I would say the impression that there was a consensus and in some way the pleasure of the profession with the proposed bill. Therefore, I would like to point out that, by participating in this last session of the Committee, we have, in fact, been invited by the representatives of the profession, in particular, had no objections, some were, and what was somehow most important in the whole story and said that, the remarks that were made in the first reading, were also respected, and even here are the remarks that came from clubs which are not in a position, which are not ruling, means that they come from the opposition, which in some way is commendable and which in fact indicates the good will of the promoters to apply certain remarks, to consider what was said in the first reading, what all the things that were then made, and which should in any case lead to the improvement of the Law itself. By listening even to the debate now, I would like to highlight what seems to be extremely important to me, and that is that this Law on the activity of social work actually governs a part concerning the profession itself and the whole system, which is a law that regulates professionally, so... determines, above all, what activities are carried out by a social worker and how they can carry out on their own as a professional activity or perform for a legal person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law certainly speaks about how someone will be able to carry out this activity of a social worker, and only if he is a member of a chamber, means a member of an organisation that will actually enable him to carry out that activity because without enrolling in the chamber directory, it will not be with those other provisions, it will not be possible. And that's what's very important. It is also extremely important that supervision of the work of the social workers themselves will be carried out by the chamber itself. What we welcome, which is appreciated by the fact that our remark which has been respected by the promoters is that we have sought greater independence from the chamber itself in our work because it was the original proposal to be a representative of the ministry in the management committee of the chamber which, if it were to remain, would have caused indeed a series of ambiguities and some illogicalities in the very performance of different roles, the role of the ministry and the role of the chamber itself. So we welcome that part that's respected. This section of professional training is also respected because professional training, or regulation, which provides for a plan for professional training of social workers, is on the responsibility of the chamber itself and should not be there, nor should the involvement of the ministry itself be due to the fact that social workers work in different systems, not only in the social care system, so social workers work both in education and in health, work in NGOs, religious organisations, and here they work and can work independently as a professional activity, carry out their professional activities. This is what we said we accept and what the profession itself experienced as a positive shift in relation to first reading and what they had no objections to. What the profession is also, an observation that, what has not changed, what may not have been in the first reading, and experts themselves have paid attention to Article 20 in which the words of science should simply be deleted because they do not correspond to the essence, should actually be said that professional educations specialising in a particular field can also be related to other fields of social sciences or are interdisciplinary therefore should remain only expressions and sentences relating to the field of social work, in this sense we will also submit as a club or have submitted the amendment already. But in the debate itself, we touched here and what is not only the subject of this law but it is very and very closely connected to the law itself, which is actually the role of social workers. In the light of the reasons in the law itself, we see the reasons why this law is being passed and there is a chapter that describes how much it really is according to the latest data of the social workers currently enrolled in the chamber because we need to point out once again that the existing Social Labour Activity Act was adopted in 2011 when other related laws went into the package, then somehow, I do not know what the reasons are but, apart from the Law on the Activity of Social Labour and the Law on Educational Rehabilitation, the other two laws have turned out to be the Law on Socio-Pedagogical Activity and the Law on the Activity of Logopedia. This law was then passed and, of course, it had to be brought into line with the current time, and each other had to be brought into line with what is with international acts and with some other acts adopted by the Republic of Croatia and also with modern scientific achievements, and that is what should have been done. It is also stated here that 2085 people are enrolled in the Chamber in 2018 and 70% of them are in the welfare system. It is not surprising to me, perhaps, that 30% is certainly in one part and in the system, a small part, a very small part and in the system more education, one part, certainly in the health care system too. But the question is whether they are working in a system of NGOs or in a system of religious organisations, whether they are being run as some other classification, although it is possible, for example, for those working in NGOs, to work in a welfare system without being shown, not being guided, so in that sense it might be a lot different to describe it and that it is clearer, that we would probably have a better picture of where all social workers are employed. But what is extremely important to me here, it is a fact that this law will bring one recognition to social workers, in terms of respect for the profession it deals with. However, this law is certainly not enough, it takes a lot, a lot of others, a lot more and a lot of other changes and the system itself, especially the social care system, to get to the role of a social worker, as it should be. When many, therefore, have a dream of what a system should look like, so I look at the role of a social worker really differently, I look at it as it would appear to be a social worker, most of his working time devoted to a man, that he is devoted to a man rather than paper. And right now, the situation is completely different. And that's why the role of a social worker isn't recognised enough in our country. And I'm afraid, that's what the grudge is, I'm afraid the way we're working or the way we're changing this system is not going in that direction. I also said for the first time in my first reading, that instead of facilitating, instead of moving administrative jobs from the social care centre, we added and left them and added all new obligations but not obligations relating to concrete work in the family, concrete work with the user, but to a number of new burdens, making new solutions, meeting the new obligations prescribed by the laws that this government has passed in these past 2 years, and that is certainly not going to contribute to the good status of the social workers themselves, and until we come to the fact that every social worker, indeed, runs the user, runs the family, we will not get any more concrete results and improve their lives by the users themselves. This is what we wanted to mention, we are on behalf of the club to support this law, along with, of course, this amendment that we have sent, and because this is indeed an activity of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, in this way we need to look and see and hope that the Chamber will play its part and the responsibilities it has in this law and do well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126496	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Bernarda Topolko, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126497	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Final Proposal of the Law on Social Labour Activities, which aims to significantly improve the quality of social work in the Republic of Croatia. We in HNS will support this final proposal of the Law, because we believe that the clearer regulation of the conditions for the implementation and termination of the activities of social work, rights and obligations of professional training, as well as the organisation of the activities, the harmonisation of jobs, the modern scientific settings, and the extension of the public authority of the Croatian Chamber and social workers, create assumptions for the quality, orderlier and more successful performance of the profession of social work. We also welcome the fact that in this final proposal of the law, a number of first reading remarks have been observed, which finally gave us a law that has been nomotechnically and linguistically improved. The forward step is certainly an article 20, i.e. the possibility of obtaining and recognising the right to specialised professional competences in order to facilitate improvement in certain areas of expertise. The amendment of Article 33 left the proposal to introduce the Management Board of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers representatives of the Ministry of Social Care and the Croatian Association of Social Workers in order to ensure the independence of the work of the chamber. The observation of the day in relation to professional training is also accepted and the rights and obligations of professional training of authorised social workers as well as the right to acquire specialised professional competences with the aim of promoting lifelong learning and protecting standards and quality. The social care system is a very complex system, which is visible primarily to a large number of users. According to the Annual Statistical Report 2006, there were 353.521 users. According to available data, 1,476 social workers work in the system, 1,404 in social workers' jobs, and 72 in the care of the breeders. We can therefore freely say that the activity of social work, which is ultimately based on the protection of human rights of activity, is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. As the system itself under strong influence and social and economic change has thus presented a constant challenge for all of us, for the whole community to continuously improve it and thus create conditions in which social service users will be able to achieve all their rights, and social workers who have been exposed to a number of professional risks in everyday practice. In fact, we are witnessing at least in the area from which I come from Međimurje County as many attacks on social workers, and we can say that we are satisfied with the work of social workers, but we have a very large number of national minorities who unfortunately do not have built-in, most of them, not all, but most of them do not have a built-in culture of work but live out of social assistance from children's supplements, and hence, it also potentials quite alcohol in these societies, gambling and, of course, the problem. I must mention here that I am extremely pleased that Minister Murganic heard the appeal from the current clock, came and sat down in Međimurje County with representatives of the county, with representatives of the Centre for Social Work and some other institutions, that she saw that something should be done because we know that unfortunately Međimurje has become a region that is not really safe to live in view of the problems we have. Finally, the Club of HNS Representatives will support this bill, but we will also continue to work to raise awareness of the importance of social services and the social system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126498	I thank my colleague Bernardi Topolko. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126499	I thank the esteemed secretary of state, so here at the beginning this is an opportunity to thank all social workers who are consciously and professionally doing their job, which we have already heard there are about 2,100 registered in the Republic of Croatia. Many things have been said already, but again I would say, there may be no such thing as the distinguished representative Pusic said a general agreement, enthusiasm, neither is it necessary nor will it ever be, but there is a high agreement, and what is most important is that active participants, so the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers and the Croatian Association of Social Workers, who would certainly want a slightly different law, yet in principle satisfied with the working group and the entire ministry have shown their flexibility and availability that they can hear other proposals and this is not the first law to come from this ministry where it is seen that from the first to the second reading a significant number of remarks that can be incorporated into the final draft of the law. I will speak from the perspective of a doctor who also has a team in which the social worker is an integral part, an unfortunate part, I will only mention some of the jobs that social workers in health care are working on, specifically in psychiatric institutions, that is, the question of granting one-time cash assistance, the question of accommodation, whether in sub-population, whether in the therapeutic community to continue rehabilitation-reskilling treatment, the question of deprivement of the business ability of a part of it, when necessary, the issue of monitoring measures on parental care, unfortunately some of the people are without the address of the residence. So, social workers are people who face the problem of poverty, homelessness, unemployment, addiction to alcohol and drugs every day, daily encounter people who are suffering from various mental disorders, and therefore, when we talk about the activity of social work, we certainly have to mention that the commitment to social justice, the fight and promotion of human rights, the question of promoting social work as such and offerings of the best practice model, and I believe that this Final proposal of the Social Labour Act has gone in this direction that social workers can indeed act as organizers and social service providers such as those who will not impose, but together with the user will see what is best and most optimal through a co-operation, how to help them see their own difficulties, how to inform them about rights, encourage, encourage and encourage them to make a decision on their own. The remarks, which were, therefore, between the first and second readings, which were adopted, have already been mentioned several times, therefore, the question of clear inconsistency between the university's prime minister of social work and the social policy master, is the question of who makes up the board of directors. So also the chapter on disciplinary responsibility, before us are three other laws that are related to assistive professions, would somehow be ideal if it were analoguely identical, but, unfortunately, it's not possible. However, these core chapters, which regulate individual activities, are in principle common and in this respect I welcome the adoption of a final proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126500	Thank you, Mr. Cell. We have a replica, dear colleague of Love Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126501	Thank you, Vice President HS. Of course, here I am, joining the greetings and passing of this law. In the social care system, we know that in the Republic of Croatia, there are slightly less than 1,500 social workers who will surely be able to make it at least a little easier for the very demanding and difficult conditions of this underrated profession, in most parts of the woman. But I'm curious, dear colleague, what is the connection between this Law and the Psychotherapy Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126502	Thank you. Answer, fellow Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126503	Here, colleague, it's a good thing you asked that question. So, apart from these administrative and often times some of the activities that social workers perform on a daily basis, it is often neglected, so they participate actively and that they are leaders of the sociotherapeutic and psychotherapy routes and when it is taken care of who can be a psychotherapist then the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy went primarily with the possibility that they are people who have a daily experience of working with people who have some mental problems, so I think it's regulated by this Law on the Activity of Social Work that will then enable and conduct psychotherapy procedures for this in an adequate way educated social workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126504	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cellic. Final words on behalf of the Proposer, Madam Secretary of State. Pleikosa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126505	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your constructive debate. As I mentioned at the beginning of the debate, the aim of the adoption of the Social Labour Act is to improve the quality of social work in the Republic of Croatia. Here, I would like to mention that, in fact, I would like to give some clarifications, as regards the members of the Chamber, and this number, which the esteemed representative Pusic mentioned, and already the esteemed representative Alfirev, in fact, answered, this 30% difference is, it's about social workers who are not employed in the activity. So they're social workers who finished studying, but they didn't, they don't work in activities. As for this part of the activity, we withdrew the parallel with the Law on Psychotherapy, which states that a company or crafts can be established for the exercise of activity. When we talk about the possibility of temporary or occasional social work activity, for example, it is arranged for situations where family mediation is carried out because of the international abduction of children or when a certain professional social work process is handled with colleagues from other countries who are not necessarily EU members. If we're talking about these deadlines that you mentioned, they're, in fact, acts that are agreed with the Chambers, that's the deal. And finally, as a social worker, I thank again everyone who has helped with their contribution to making as high-quality regulations as possible, and I propose that HS adopt the Act on Social Labour Activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126506	Thank you. We have several replicas, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126507	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here, I'd like to ask you if you could just listen to me and answer this particular question. I also mentioned to the Committee that, since we are now passing 4 laws that are related by their activities, therefore, these are really auxiliary activities, they are in your Ministry of Social Care and on the trail of what my colleague Pusic was saying, I would ask you to tell us if you really are the foundations then, those crucial provisions concerning the work, the functioning of the Chamber, so let's say the price, the pricing of certain activities, whether you have brought it into line in all these laws, here, that's what would be worth answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126508	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. Answer, Secretary of State of the Pleikosas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126509	Thank you. Here, I can tell you that in most cases they tried to reconcile that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126510	Thank you for your response. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126511	There is only one thing left in the debate about the next point, therefore, if it is in this provision that says that people who do not have a seat in the Republic of Croatia can temporarily and occasionally carry out without registration, any controls and jobs in the Republic of Croatia if only in cases which you have mentioned, so, some kind of, some kind of cross-border situation, then it needs to be written here, then it should be specified here. I've been teaching social workers for ten years, and I know what it means to open up now, that everyone who has no idea of any kind of request, and that's what it says, if you don't define it in more detail, that's exactly what it says, that everyone can come across the border and compete with them on the market in Croatia for two weeks without any control.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126512	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126513	So here I can also say that to the members of the Chamber and the members of the task force, that was not disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126514	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am asking you specifically just an answer to the question. Since private practice, i.e. professionalisation and educational rehabilitation experts, and social workers, and I think that the question has been asked by my colleague Pusic, if I understand it well in the presentation on behalf of the Club, remains irresponsible, which means that the whole of Article 18 is defined as the lowest price for the work of private magistrates of education rehabilitation, but also the individual labour price, which was determined by the Chamber, is deleted, calling for a programme of the reform of the Government of 2018 and the EU Directive, why you deleted Article 18 here, and in Article 16, as regards social workers, you left that the Chamber is the one that makes the decision on the price of individual social labour services. Now, it would make sense to me that you've evened it out, power of the Chamber, in some way if we're already talking about four related laws, why did you miss doing it, and why is it regulated here in this and elsewhere in another way?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126516	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Answer, Secretary of State of the Pleikosas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126517	Here I can say that in most cases we tried to appreciate it, but here we have failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126518	Thank you for your response, Secretary of State. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126519	We will now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Social Labour Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 405, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. Amendments submitted by MP Marija Alfirev and SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, which is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, respected Marija Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126520	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. This amendment is not accepted. In fact, the Proposer proposes to delete words in the text of a provision relating to the content and manner of conducting expert knowledge and competence tests, on the other hand, to explain the same as to propose to delete words in a text relating to professional training. The right and obligation of an authorised social worker to professional training is laid down in Article 19. The final proposal of the Social Labour Activity Act and Article 7(7) provides that the content and method of conducting examinations of professional and competence shall be governed by the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, with the prior consent of the Minister in charge of social care affairs. Since an examination of expertise and competences may be one of the conditions for the recognition of the right to perform social work activities and the regulation of the content and method of conducting the expertise and competence tests shall have a direct effect on social workers, the adoption of the act in question is necessary with the consent of the competent minister, thus ensuring the principle of legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126521	Dear Representative Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126522	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Yes, this objective of this amendment was, above all, to point out the fact that even through the first reading, it was highlighted on one autonomy of the professional community in this sense, and the influence of the Ministry of Family Affairs, Demography, social policy, cannot have an impact or should not have an impact on those contents that the chamber has and the chamber actually covers all employees working in the field of social work, meaning all social workers and not necessarily only who are in the social care system already working in the field of education, the judiciary and some other areas, therefore, health and other areas, therefore consent or the influence of the ministry in this regard is questionable, but given your explanation, I will not ask for a vote, I am not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126523	The vote is therefore not required. The next amendment is the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126524	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, social work is a scientific discipline in which experts and through education are interdisciplinaryly educated from different areas that are closely related to social work and the professional values of social work and professional education which specialise in a particular field requires further specific education of knowledge and competences which are part of social work activities based on the principles and knowledge of science and practice of social work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126525	It's obvious on behalf of the MPs' club. You're pulling back? Thank you very much. Then we came to the end, yeah, we're pulling back. We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Social Labour Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 405. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Marija Alfirev and SDP's Club of Representatives, we agreed earlier at the session on these amendments and both were withdrawn, so we will not vote on them, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Social Labour Act, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 111 FOR and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Social Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126527	We move to the next item of the agenda, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, second reading, P.Z. number 406. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I call on the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal of the Law. Here's the secretary of state, Mrs. Maria Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Educational Rehabilitation Activity was for the first time governed by the 2011 Education and Rehabilitation Act. The entry into force of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has shown the need for intervention in the provisions of the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, as well as the harmonisation with the provisions of that Law in the part of the regulation of the conditions for the exercise of educational and rehabilitation activities, as regulated professions, as well as in the part of the public powers of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, which, as the competent authority, should carry out the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. At its ninth session, the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Rehabilitation Activity. The proposal for a Law was adopted by 31 October 2018. In the light of the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law, the final draft of the Law balances the position of all experts performing the educational and rehabilitation activities, regardless of the resolution and scope of action, and ensures the same standards of quality of work and monitoring of the profession. Also, in the final proposal of the Law, provisions have been complemented to comply with the infringement provisions, by prescribing the obligation of the criminal liability entity. The main objective to achieve is to improve the quality of education-rehabilitation activities and the extension of the public powers of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, as well as to ensure a level playing field for all experts performing the educational and rehabilitation activities, regardless of the resolution and scope of action, as well as to ensure the quality of work and monitoring standards. On the other proposals and opinions given in the first reading, the applicant provided detailed reasons why he could not accept the proposals. Following this, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Rehabilitation Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126529	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of this final proposal of the Law. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126530	I would like to thank the chairman, the respected secretary of state, with his associates, associates, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Rehabilitation is before us, which regulates the conditions and the way in which education-rehabilitation activities are carried out. During the debate in the first reading, it was very clear that the problem of the division of educational rehabilitators was very clear in view of their working portfolios, which was corrected by the final draft law. What should certainly be pointed out is that it is a profession that is very necessary and sought on the market. In fact, educational rehabilitators are employed in different systems, in health care, in education, in social care where they deal with children with developmental difficulties or disability. The role of an educational rehabilitator is crucial to them. If we go back a little bit as the State Secretary mentioned the Educational Rehabilitation Act was adopted in 2011. For the first time, this activity is regulated in terms of content, mode of action, conditions of performance and professional supervision. Today, there has been a need to bring the Educational Rehabilitation Act into line with other regulations and the Law on regulated professions, the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the Service Act. It should be pointed out that this law will balance the position of all experts performing the educational rehabilitation activity, regardless of the portfolio they are working in. This will ensure the same standard of quality of work and professional monitoring. This law very clearly defines the rights and obligations of educational rehabilitators, the exercise of private practice or group practice. The Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, the chamber becomes an independent professional organisation with the property of a legal person and public authority. What does that really mean? The Chamber decides on giving, renewing, withdrawing the authorisation for independent work, then manages the directory of the Masters of Educational Rehabilitation and the first-grader of Educational Rehabilitation, but also runs the directory of those rehabilitators who have private practice. In the Croatian Parliament, too, it has been said many times that these experts are under-cooperation with the Ministry of Demography and the Ministry of Education because unfortunately the needs for educational rehabilitators are extremely high. Although it is a small professional and scientific community, we must not forget that they are the most vulnerable group of societies and that their contribution to working with children with disabilities is irreplaceable. As I have already pointed out, this law is in line with the applicable laws and regulations but at the same time gives greater powers, but also the responsibility of the professional organisation. And I believe that this will improve the quality of the service itself, but also the reputation of the profession itself, and we as HDZ will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126531	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josic. Next debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, respected colleague Bernarda Topolko. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126532	I thank you, here we have again the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements but this time the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity. During the first reading, a number of constructive remarks could be heard on both the parent committee and the debate itself, which the applicant accepted and included in this final proposal, which we as the HNS Club certainly welcome and commend. As significant remarks, which have been accepted, I would like to point out those relating to the status of educational rehabilitators and the unification of expertise, professionalism and supervision, which, while respecting the position of all experts performing the educational rehabilitation activity, is achieved, regardless of the portfolio and the area of action and ensuring the same quality of work standards and the monitoring of the profession. In the initial proposal for activity, there was a clear distinction between the conditions and how education rehabilitation activities, standards of education and professional supervision between educational rehabilitators, employees in pre-school and school institutions and educational rehabilitators in other institutions, leading to discrimination and possibly unequal quality of service provision. I'd like to point out some more newspapers that help improve the regulation of this area. In this final proposal, the Proposer brought this proposal into line with the provisions of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, particularly in the part of the regulation of the conditions for carrying out educational rehabilitation activities as a regulated profession and part of the public authority of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, which should carry out the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications as a competent authority. The conditions for enrolment in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators are also clearer and are also a basic condition for the implementation of the educational rehabilitation of activities. In order to comply with the provisions of the Law on Services of the National Journal, the number 80/11 is deleted from the mandatory association provisions of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators and the obligation to verify professionality with the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators in order to carry out the approval of the Master of Educational Rehabilitation and the university of the Educational Rehabilitation for independent work on educational rehabilitation activities. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Reform Programme for 2018 at its meeting on 26 April 2018 and the basis for the liberalisation of market services with the aim of removing, inter alia, regulatory price limits. The provisions on setting the lowest price have been deleted. I would also like to mention that HS made a decision that March 1st is the day that rehabilitators experience as one of the valuable professions, that is also the day of the death of professors. Tomislav Špoljara, which in particular in the early 20th century in Varazdin initiated the establishment and operation of the first auxiliary departments for students with developmental difficulties, and in 1963, the High Defectology School, the first of its kind in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the whole of our country. Announcing the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators is little recognition for all the people doing this demanding job. It's love and life with those kids and with those people. Finally, these changes are a positive shift. The debate has received results from the applicant, and we will support this Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126533	I thank my colleague Topolko. The next debate on behalf of GLAS and HSU representatives, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All respected, therefore, the Law on the Educational Rehabilitation Activity really needs to be seen in the context of these Laws in order of which we have just discussed the activities of social work, and beyond. So the point is either one of the objectives and the purpose of this Law is to transfer the business of regular regulation of professions from the Ministry of Educational Rehabilitators' Chamber. The chamber is also given the right to recognise foreign qualifications, I suppose it's really kind of consistent with the profession. However, unlike social workers, it is explicitly said here, even in further explanations that membership in the Chamber is not mandatory. Now, you explain to me why social workers are bound by membership in the Chamber and not by educational rehabilitators? The text sent to us under the Law states that, for the purpose of harmonising the Law with the provisions of the Services Act, the provisions of mandatory association in the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators are deleted, etc. 16. The Social Labour Act writes, therefore, what, excuse me, 16 I misquoted because I didn't mean 16, but I meant that the condition of a social worker is recognised to act as a social worker if one is a member of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, in the following text: So why is it that this difference is made and that it doesn't bother the Chamber or the Chamber? Don't be angry, but that's not an argument, there's got to be some reason. I ask you, it bothers me, I am a parliamentary representative here and I have the right to explain why this kind of difference is made between these two activities that are actually similar in many things and should be regulated, I suppose, by the same pattern. This Law also introduces the possibility of establishing a company or a craftsman, so a craft for social work, or here a craft for educational rehabilitation. Please, answer me, does this mean that this is where it is done and registered, not under this Act, but under the Law of Trade Society or by the Law of Trade? So, if anyone can become an educational rehabilitator craftsman and register under the Law of Turnings, in my opinion, I allow that I am wrong, but in my opinion it comes out of this and therefore I ask you once again to explain it to me, either Decidantly, yes or no. It's also one problem that I've pointed out earlier and I don't really understand. Therefore, in this Law on Educational Rehabilitators is regulated and regulated in an explanation, the additional text we received in the Law says, and now I quote, also on the basis of the National Reform Programme for 2018, which was adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 26 April 2018, the liberalisation of the service market with the aim of removing, inter alia, regulatory price limits, and for this reason, the provisions on setting the lowest price are deleted. Therefore, the Law on Educational Rehabilitators even deletes the provision of the lowest price based on the Government programme, I assume that this programme is as valid as it is for the service of educational rehabilitation, so it should also apply to the social work service. However, when it comes to social work, I quote in Article 16, the Chamber makes a decision on the price of individual social labour services provided in the context of social work activities as a professional activity. So, when it comes to social service, it's not just about the lowest price as it is for rehab where it's thrown out, so there's no minimum anymore, nothing, what kind of price they put in, if they get someone to pay them, okay, that's a possible approach. But if in education rehabilitation, why not social work? And social work does not specify even the lowest price, but individually, as described in Article 16, the prices of all services provided by social workers are individually determined. I don't see it here, so you've said to that question a few times, that it's about you settling where you could, and you couldn't, but you couldn't do it anywhere. Social workers are probably the first point, all of these are derivatives or additional special, special activity, but social workers cover the widest spectrum. Why they are treated differently, therefore, why this regulation is different, why they are not covered by the Government's programme of 26 April 2018 on the liberalisation of the service market, but are ignored by the Government's programme of April 2018, and services are largely, so to speak, individually, determined prices in the Chamber. It could be an accident, it could be a schlemper simply if it didn't work out, but trust me when a man sees something like that, he thinks it might be intentional, that maybe there's some kind of, some other idea behind it. If that idea is, if there's another idea, if that idea is good, tell us anyway, we'll support it, but if it's something else, if you don't answer those very simple explicit questions, believe that, of course, what a man will think, what's behind this hill is worth, why there are these differences, why this discrimination or unbalanced, unbalanced treatment. So, I ask you bona fide, assuming that everything is done in the best interest, but I ask an explanation of these questions, so why is the Government's programme on the liberalisation of the service markets applied to educational rehabilitators, and not to social workers, whether a craftsman can set up his activity under the Law on crafts and commercial society, and not by these laws that are ahead of us, I don't think these are such difficult issues, but really we should know, and why association in the Chamber where social workers are required, and for educational rehabilitations is not. Three not such difficult questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126535	I thank my colleague Vesni Pusic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126536	Thank you, Vice President. Here, we are talking today, that is, discussing another law that, on a law that regulates education-rehabilitation activity. In the first reading, I'm going to mention and I'm going to actually remind all of us about which we actually argued and what was really the subject, the subject of the debate, and what wasn't regulated then, and what was really, that it remained as planned in the first reading, which could have caused even one marked discrimination, discrimination between professions, discrimination between experts and here, fortunately, something positive happened in that sense, and all of what we were saying at the time, all of what we rated as problematic, seems to have thought about it anyway, and that it realized that it had to make changes, and that something different had to be arranged. The fact is that in the first reading, it was proposed to single out a very large, large number of educational rehabilitation experts working in the education system, so it was preschool education and primary and high school education, which were excluded from the obligation to enroll in the directory of the Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators. This de facto meant that the Chamber as an organization and the highest roof professional organisation of educational rehabilitators had absolutely no impact on how educational rehabilitators therefore, these experts carry out their activities in the system of education, education. And fortunately, what happened was what we advocated, which is that this article actually, that those provisions had changed and what we advocated that the Chamber had and control over the work of experts working in education, education, was respected, and that's really what it was, which is, I don't know if it could be any different at all and whether, if anything else could have happened, I think it was simple, we could have expected that it would be different, but simply if you were holding on to, to the right, if you held on to some, to some justice, to that, that all experts were equally legal, that before the Law they were equal, to have equal powers and, and that we were equal to all experts, then it really should have come to this. However, what is different, and what did not happen when we talk about harmonising all these laws, and we are going to talk about two more laws today, these are, in the first reading, the Laws on Activity, on Psychological Activity, and the Law on, the Law on Social Pedagogical Activity, then we really need to keep an eye on it, and the representatives of the Ministry, once again on all of our observations concerning and the previous Law, the Law on Social Labour, this Law which is now, and these next two laws, that indeed these basic provisions, the Crucial Provisions, those concerning all the laws that are not specific to any particular activity, to reconsider, so perhaps if it was not a reference amendment, but to see, to consider all these objections and in good faith, indeed, because these all of the observations that we make, to the final judgments, to be made, to say, Therefore, I agree with my colleague Pusic, who also in this reading, in this Law on Educational Rehabilitation, cited what is really in the explanation, why it went to the erasure of Article 18 of the valid Law, which regulates the lowest price of the work of private magistrates of education rehabilitation, to determine the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, and also to delete the provision that the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators also approves the individual price of educational and rehabilitation services of each Master of Educational Rehabilitation which performs private practice. And all of this, in fact, calls for market liberalisation, i.e. by referring to the Services Directives which define the conditions relating to the regulation of the lowest price and the National Reform Programme for 2018. Therefore, if, indeed, in this proposal of the Law on Educational Rehabilitation, it went in a way that is not prescribed, that the Chamber does not have the possibility to prescribe an individual price, then it is not possible to allow or allow other Chambers to do so. And it seems to me that, indeed, only in the Law on the Activity of Social Work, and I really hope that this is a failure, because we didn't see that possibility either in the activities of the Law on Social and Pedagogical Activity, and neither of the Law on Psychological Activity, and I really think that, uh, here I will ask you again for that explanation at the end, but hopefully, here in good faith, that it will bring you into line, and that all the Law will really be in line with the way that, in that case, there would be no really discrimination among experts, because this can then produce really different, different consequences, consequences in carrying out, therefore professionally performing, private activities of social workers that may be either interrupted or may be extended, therefore, depending on how the Chamber of social workers will determine these prices, so there can indeed be one disproportionate, and one discrimination in this area. I say once again what we have proposed and what is said in the first reading we welcome, we welcome the changes you have introduced, we think that and that the representatives of the profession agree with what happened in the meantime. So I believe that we will also be able to support this law because everything we really advocated in our first reading is respected. Therefore, in order to give real importance to the activities and work of educational rehabilitators and to really respect them in the best possible way, I think that this law should also be carefully, carefully and carefully read and carefully, carefully modify all that is necessary in order for them to be uninterrupted and yet, by a really professional, professional roof organization to have quality control, good training and to be able to carry out their activities in accordance with the law. Here, so much for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126537	Thank you, we move on to the next debate, the first to appear was the Honored Representative Goran Maras, who is gone, who is losing his right to speak, and will be the next to speak with the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126538	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the Secretary of State, and what is significant, the most significant difference between the first and second readings, so that the final proposal balances the position of all experts performing the educational-rehabilitation activity, regardless of the portfolio and the area of action, and ensures the same standards of quality of work and monitoring of the profession. One of the, in my opinion, unwarranted objections when we talk about regulated professions is that the main issue of the law concerns the issue of chamber powers. In its 2012 work, therefore, shortly after the first adoption of the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activities, Professor Renata Vragović said that the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators is the protection of professional identity including protection against competition against complimentary professions, unconscious and unprofessional performance of activities, changes that occur in resolution policies in which educational rehabilitators carry out their practice and protection of members of the profession against damage claims. Representative Pusic had already spoken and asked whether or not the law on trade or the Service Act applies here, the question of whether it is the best term, but I think that in the Croatian language there is no better one to translate the concept of provider therefore, service provider, most often the floor, when we talk about services is the first association of economic activity, but here is the concept of the service of an educational rehabilitator that should be based on contemporary scientific knowledge and professionally justified methodology is something that is used when talking about standardisations, when talking about normatives, and this service can be specialized if it refers to a narrowly targeted group of users, let's say, a person with autism or with Down syndrome. It can be fragmented if it is focused on only one aspect of rehabilitation services and it can be designed in accordance with the general needs of the market, let's say if it is services of early intervention, housing services. The systems in which educational rehabilitators are, therefore, education and education, social care, health care, this everything else is minor and in fact this one professional protection is something that is needed and that is why chambers are established, and so is the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators who then exercise the public authority of professional supervision over the work of educational rehabilitators. And there was, in fact, also a debate and what was very important to emphasise, so that the chamber has powers in education and that in fact the competent ministry in this case is the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy that provides certain technical assistance in terms of legal, legal assistance. In fact here we are talking about professions, regulation of professions and one of the often quoted sociologists Greenwund is talking about what are the necessary characteristics of professions, but what is the first thing he says is a systematicly round theory which then represents a different element between professions and other professions. He also cites the professional authority or authority of professionals, institutional insurance, ethical code and specific subculture, and when we talk about a particular profession, then we can say that it is a specific subculture that then consists of members of the profession, and it is manifested in the unity and commitment of the activity. I believe that this proposal is a final proposal of the Law on the Educational Rehabilitation Activity and that it will provide a better framework to allow for better education and to provide services that can be quality provided by educational rehabilitators.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126539	Thank you very much, we have one replica, respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I agree with the operation of the chamber and association in the chamber I think it's a good thing and I think it's a good thing that the Chamber has taken over some duties from, of particular in the professional supervision of the Ministry. What is not so clear is why in the case of educational rehabilitators membership in the Chamber is not mandatory, and in the case of social workers it is. So in this Law, this Chamber, which you have praised, probably justifiably, they do not have to be members of that Chamber at all under this Law, unlike social workers who must be members of their Chamber, that is the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126541	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126542	And, I don't know, here at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Social Policy was Professor Ljiljana Pintarić Mlinar, who is the president of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators and in fact what is at the very beginning of the Law where the position of all experts is even, they had a problem, so where those educational rehabilitators who were not in the system, who were in the system of education, that they didn't have to be members of the Chamber, this now with these amendments of the Law between the first and the second readings changed, and on that side they showed satisfaction and I don't think that it would make any difference that educational rehabilitations would not be members of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabiliators.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126543	Thank you very much. The next debate is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, to me as well as many MPs who have already spoken before me, particularly glad that this Final Proposal of the Law actually proves that sometimes in this assembly there is no talking in the wind or speaking in vain and that what the parliamentary representatives and the working bodies warn about, but also at the plenary session, there is still an ear and head of those who actually refer to the Laws in HS and that we have the opportunity to see changes between the first and second readings. That's also the case with this law. I am pleased that you have, in fact, respected the remarks of a constructive and factual basis that have been shown in the debate on this Law in its first reading and that in this final proposal of the Law, you have ensured that all the experts of the educational rehabilitation character or educational rehabilitation experts, regardless of where they work, whether they work in the social care system or in the education system or slightly less in the health system, are actually treated equally for the tasks they perform because they actually carry out jobs from their professional work and that control of them, some control, behaves the same institution, which so far has not been the case, not by mistake of those people, but simply by some inherited problems where, for example, between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and Science, then the sport, have failed to level out any founding rights, so we have had institutions, for example in Dalmatia or in central Croatia, which they have carried out the same kind of training, the same kind of training, which were also carried out the same kind of education. I am pleased that this final bill corrects this injustice, that we know what is the standard in the system of educational rehabilitation experts, that the Chamber, as a professional association, is responsible for setting standards, for maintaining that standard, monitoring and monitoring in that part of respect for standards. Now, what the Chambers has in some way been given in a large, large part is the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, given that educational rehabilitation experts are a regulated profession, and that is what we still sort of do while we have entered the EU, five full years ago, and we haven't done all the necessary pre-work until 2013, in order to enable the application of the Freedom of Services Directive within EU countries, we have allowed all those who come from the EU area to perform a certain activity in the Republic without any problems, but in our hands they were also skirts and scissors, which is said to set the conditions and say, okay, if you want to work as an educational rehabilitation expert in any segment, any education, health or care system, you have to satisfy these, and these conditions. This isn't the only area where we've welcomed it unprepared, where we're still dealing with it in some way, that's also in the education system we have big, big problems. It was all right when we only had a system of recognition of foreign educational qualifications, it was no problem, it was an evaluation, a transcript, or whatever you want, of these educational documents regardless of what level of education they were at. However, when we came to this section of expertise, problems arose. However, what we need to take care of two things may not be exactly what is prescribed strictly in this law, but they are directly or indirectly attached to it. The first is how the chamber, or all of us, can influence the fact that in our education system, there is no more work done by persons who have graduated from a related, related colleges in countries that, from a third world, mean that are not an EU area, have completed a logo, detectiveology in neighbouring countries, with all due respect to everyone, but it is not the same when you complete that study that lasts 2 years in a country or in our country where that study is going on, it takes 5 years. Now, I know that the chamber is actually the one that condition that you have to pass a professional exam, a large number of these people complained that the chamber did not even allow them to work in the education system with the qualifications they possess, however, there are a large number of cases where these people are simply employed in educational institutions, directors with the help of school boards, which at times when they were not prescribed, which in times when they were not verifying professional qualifications but only educational qualifications, and here we need to see how to establish and maintain the standard that we as a state will set. Because it doesn't matter who works in our schools, raised by educational institutions with children and students. We have recorded in recent years a large number of trends in actually increasing children who enter the educational education system that have either less health or are children with developmental difficulties, I remember there somewhere when we entered the e-registration system we had about 7% of children who entered the system of secondary education who had either less health problems or were children with developmental difficulties, we panicked strongly as a state because of this fact, but looking at EU data then we see that it is quite normal, that both methods of early recognition and working with these children actually contributed to about 12% moving the share of these children in institutions. We know that the commitment of Croatia as well as the EU itself is not as in the beginnings of the segregation of these children, that they are placed exclusively and only in special institutions, but in fact the urgency that as far as possible is possible where it is possible to go on an integrated approach means involving children in normal some kind of educational conditions, and there are just the key to these people, primarily educational rehabilitation experts, because they are actually those who are the holders of the integration of these children, their left and right hands, all the help in the difficulties they have. And thirdly, someone here mentioned, I think she was a colleague, and I'm sorry I can't remember now, but I'm too late, the last name she said, Zeljka, on behalf of the HDZ Club, so we have to work on this fact that these are deficit personnel in our system, that we have to work on having the Ministry responsible for the social and education system working together to increase the quotas. Eh, that would be nice if we didn't have, I mean, it's tried on several occasions to affect the enrollment quotas of individual colleges and to make it possible to reduce the records of what we're suffixed in, to increase the records of what we're deficited in. However, there we have always come across a wall called university autonomy and this autonomy is widely interpreted, not in terms of the development of a particular university or university of development concepts and freedoms in this direction of development but in this as well. I hope that as we loudly declare the sum of so-called software contracts and other mechanisms of non-imposing entry quotas, rather than encouraging the entry of certain interests that have a future, where we need to develop affinities, therefore we will not only blindly look at the rate he may be the future, but certainly we must not ignore these very important ones either. segments needed by our education system not only but also by society. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126545	Thank you, we have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126546	Dear Glasovac, you were the assistant minister of science and education, so I would refer here to the system, the issue of the realization of professional supervision, which in this way was the extension of the powers of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators we therefore had two documents, that is the National Framework Curricula and the Croatian National Educational Standard, and there was the Agency for Education and Education that encouraged only the evaluation of schools and in this context related to the standardisation of educational rehabilitation services in the system in the education system was something that was important, and in fact we have this implementation of the standard of services prescribed by the competent resolutions and here obtaining greater powers from the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, and then, in some way, it might have complicated the whole situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126547	Thank you, Your Honor's reply, no, good. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126548	Thank you, dear fellow Glasovac, in your debate, you mentioned that, first of all, you were talking about the interest of the educational rehabilitationist as well as the deficitary which is true, and I would still point you to one fact that, and this is actually about all these activities that we are talking about today and responsibilities in some way, large responsibilities of chambers, especially now when we speak and when we advocated that it was exactly the chamber of educational rehabilitations that will oversee the work of experts in schools. We have to reach such a standard that both parents and everyone, all citizens care about who's actually working with kids, who's working with students. in schools [[Intruder: Thank you]] And if we don't really have [[Intruder: Thank you]] Professional surveillance [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] We won't be able to have it. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126549	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126550	I agree with you in that part. So the first thing that we need is to provide an adequate number of professional staff, among other things, are educational rehabilitators, where we have a problem of budgetary nature. Second, secure a standard of quality assurance and a third, so that it doesn't happen again and happen to us that... By collective agreements, as we did in the sixth month, that is, this government, that we actually abolish the addition to these people, an add-on of 12% seems to me, for 1,500 employees of educational rehabilitators who have lost several hundred to several thousand kunas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there should be the same thing to take care of, it's sometimes hard, there's no money, there's not enough, there's not enough how to schedule it, but it really should be, it's hard, but sometimes it's crucial, not only in politics, but also in life to set priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126551	Thank you. That concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126552	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Educational Rehabilitation Activity, second reading, P.Z. 406. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 100 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126553	We're going to the next point, which is: - Proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity, first reading, P.Z. No. 551. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Maria Pleikosa, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126554	... MPs and MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Psychological activity was for the first time regulated by the 2003 Law on Psychological Activity. Over time, the need for the Law to be brought into line with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees and the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has been observed. The proposed Law clearly and precisely prescribes what is considered a psychological activity. Furthermore, a public authority shall be granted to the Croatian psychological chamber for the conduct of the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, except in cases where psychologists are recognised foreign professional qualifications to carry out a regulated profession, an expert associate in a pre-school institution or an expert associate in a school institution, when it is recognised in accordance with the regulations of pre-school and school education systems. Instead of a permit, the status of authorised psychologist is introduced, which is obtained through the recognition of the right to exercise psychological activity when it is established that the conditions for enrolment are met, and the obligation to obtain and restore general and special allowances for the exercise of psychological activity is deleted every 6 years. The possibility of a psychologist being asked to recognise the possession of a special professional competence in the form of specific knowledge and skills specialized in a particular field of applied psychology, and the same Chamber can recognise speciality in the solution. Membership in the Psychology Chamber is not mandatory, but if they want to carry out psychological activity, membership is mandatory. In order to improve the standards of the exercise of psychological activity proposed by the Chamber, the power of decision on acquisition, temporary prohibition and termination of the right to exercise psychological activity shall be entrusted to the Chamber. The provisions of the proposed Law also more precisely regulate the launch, way of implementation and subject-matter. In more detail, the rights and obligations of mentors and trainees regarding the conduct of the traineeship are regulated and the conduct of a psychological expert examination is regulated. Clearer infringement provisions for a natural person who carries out a psychological activity, as well as for a legal person and a responsible person in a legal person who hires or concludes a contract of working with a person who does not meet the conditions laid down for carrying out a psychological activity shall be introduced. Following this, HS is proposed to adopt the proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126555	Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ representative club, will speak to the esteemed representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, we have before us a first reading of the proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity, which was first arranged by the Law of 2003. This new law is in line with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees and the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Moving the interest from the disease itself to man conditioned the need to use, in addition to medical methods of diagnostics and treatment, other procedures related to the assessment of psychological and social aspects of the functioning of the sick person. In this context, the psychosocial model has contributed greatly to the development of new areas of action and the contribution of psychology as a separate scientific discipline. The application of psychological knowledge, methods and procedures in healthcare was originally defined in the context of medicine, therefore, a medical context that experiences a certain change and context of psychology as an independent science, so we are talking about a psychological context. According to Art. 4. The psychological activity includes prevention, psychological evaluation and psychological diagnostics, psychological procedures intended for professional guidance, psychological and psychotherapy treatments and psychological counselling, educational and educational activities in applied psychology, professional research, psychological evaluation and psychological skills. The purpose of carrying out psychological activity is to improve the health and quality of life of users of psychological services and society as a whole, development and promotion of organisations, institutions and society as a whole. I'm not going to talk about organisational psychology here, but I'd like to say a little bit about medical or health psychology. Medical psychology is the first branch of applied psychology in health, and its basic content is related to the field of mental disorders. Here there was a narrow overlap of psychology with the field of interest of psychiatry, which, according to Milon, pointed to the term of medical psychology, a broader area of application of psychology in health, which is defined by the psychological context of the most adequate expression of the term health psychology. The concept of health rather than the concept of medicine extends the scope of psychological knowledge, methods and procedures, not only to the treatment of diseases, but also to efforts to preserve health and prevent disease. Since '70. In the last century, the increasingly pronounced degree of psychology and psychiatry with other areas of somatic medicine in clinical practice confirms the occurrence of health psychology and consultative or azonic psychiatry. Their common interest was to care for the mental health of persons outside psychiatric institutions. The status and position of health psychologists given the possible contribution that psychologists can make to improving the quality of health services is not sufficient. The latest amendments to the Health Protection Act are only clinical psychologists, so those who specialize in clinical psychology are included in healthcare professionals. The role and importance of psychology in the system of comprehensive healthcare should be determined by the degree of its flexibility and the extent of its adaptable capacities compared to the growing requirements for greater interaction and integration of disciplines involved in the health care process. In an increasing variety of potential medical environments, psychologists would be able to engage directly and co-operate with other health activities. The law also better describes and defines the concept of psychologists, according to which it is a person who has completed undergraduate or undergraduate and graduate university study of psychology in the Republic of Croatia or has a recognised foreign professional qualification for performing a regulated profession of psychologists. There's already been a speech before about the powers of the Croatian Psychic Chamber, so I'm going to skip it. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Psychological Activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126557	The next club is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Romana Jerkovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that the changes proposed are, in our conviction, an improvement in the 2003 law. Although we adopt the law as proposed with some minor corrections that are likely to happen until the second reading, it will fit the needs of psychologists more effectively. We believe that the law has real potential to provide better quality services to users and to protect them from potential incompetent and unprofessional service providers. Without a doubt, greater powers of the chamber will allow the profession to carry out expert supervision of the work of psychologists both in the civil and public sectors, which is more than welcome. I will present on behalf of the club several proposals that have been crystallized during the public debate, which have been repeated several times and which have come from different sides, we agree as a club with them and therefore will especially highlight them. It is specifically three articles, the first one that I want to mention is Article 3 which, in our opinion, does not distinguish two very important concepts, and these are the concept of the client of psychological services from the concept of users of psychological services. And despite a number of arguments that appeared on several different sides during the public debate, and especially from the Croatian Psychological Chamber, no correction of the law has been made in this regard, even as far as we know, even as the promoter has repeatedly publicly accepted the argument for the necessary changes but the proposals have unfortunately not been implemented and therefore I use the opportunity on behalf of the SDP Club to point out once again in the hope that this part of the law will change. Therefore, two different subjects in psychological activity were misrepresented, which is not good, and we suggest that these two subjects are really, clearly explicitly defined in Article 3 and that a new definition is introduced in other words, which is the definition of the orderer of psychological services and that the article is, for example, an article. It reads: “Operator of psychological services a natural or legal person who requires a professional procedure or procedures of psychological activity against users of psychological services and who has a valid legal basis or the consent of a user.” One very important article, Article 15(2), states that the area of applied psychology in which an authorised psychologist can be recognised speciality determines the chamber by the statute. Now, we think that one, first of all, is impractical, may not even be illogical, but it's impractical. We must bear in mind that it is a very dynamic and pro-pulsive profession, activity and that procedures must be practical. Therefore, the proposal of the Croatian Psychological Chamber is very logical to replace the word'statut' with the word 'law' because, as I know well, any amendments to the statutes require the convocation of a assembly of 3, 3.5 thousand members, after which, the application of amendments to the court register of the competent court, which means that such a proposed solution will make the procedure difficult and the adjustment of regulation on changes in psychological activity when necessary and will mean unnecessary amendments to the maximum act of the Chamber for each introduction of the speciality. So, we see no reason to determine this by the Statute, not by the Regulation, for example, which is adopted by the Management Board, everything, as I said, will be much simpler, everything will be much more practical, cheaper, avoid unnecessary and frequent changes to the Chamber Statute, the costs of maintaining the Assembly and the costs of recording changes to the court register. Now, we think that this one would really be welcome to correct the law that would bring savings at different levels and in different ways. And finally, another thing about art. The 45th century of the 10th century, which says that this is very interesting, supervision of the work of psychologists employed in preschool and school education systems is carried out in accordance with the rules on professional pedagogical supervision in the system of education and education. I must say, on behalf of the SDP club, that we agree with all those who in the e-consultation process have expressed great doubts about this and this solution. In fact, psychologists who are employed in pre-school and school institutions, regardless of their status as an expert associate, are regulated by regulations relating to education and education, they primarily carry out psychological activities, which means that they must primarily comply with the provisions of the Law on Psychological Activity, General Acts of the Chamber and other regulations governing psychological activity. The establishment of the Chamber is just because it was necessary to form a body that would oversee the exercise of a regulated profession of psychologists. Thus, such a solution is illogical. To make things better, the law itself is contradictory, because look at the article. 19th, he says, the Chamber cares for development, expertise, ethics, legality and reputation in psychological activity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If that's not enough for him, let him read the article. The 21st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, says, professional supervision of the work of authorised psychologists, so you here in the Law say that this is the obligation of the Chamber, two articles mention it. It is doubtless that a person who has acquired the calling of psychologists in order to work in a preschool or school institution must have the status of an authorised psychologist who, under the terms of the prescribed article. 8. The Law on Psychological Activity assigns the Chamber and let's not do precedents now, let's not make exceptions, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't even comply with what you wrote, it's not in accordance with the other Law that regulates this activity. Therefore, we sincerely hope that you will have an understanding of this proposal because you cannot declare the workplace a profession. What's a psychologist in preschool and school? He is, therefore, an expert associate, but he is a psychologist and he is primarily and primarily a psychologist, engaged in psychological activity, so there is no point in putting their work above the supervision of the Croatian psychological chamber, it simply makes absolutely no sense. Therefore, once again, it is logical to propose that, in the jurisdiction of the Chamber, expert supervision of the work of psychologists, including those working in pre-school and school institutions in the field of psychological activity, while the other segments of work would remain under the regulation of a regulation on professional pedagogical supervision in the system of education and education. In other words, the item should not be changed, it should simply be thrown out, we think it is the simplest and then it is understood that the work of all psychologists, no matter where they work, is under the control of the Chamber, as it is with other related professions. Now, on behalf of the SDP Club, I ask the Proposer to take into account the suggestions that I have just made on behalf of the club, and with the belief that our proposals will make the bill even more high-quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126559	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the wheel and we will vote, of course, when the conditions are met, and now we will move on to the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126560	Proposal for a Law on Psychological Activity, First Reading, P.Z. Number 551. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Psychological Activity and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 98 for, four abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126561	And now we're going to move on to the following: - Proposal of the Sociopedagogue Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 552. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Maria Pleikosa, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126562	Thank you, dear Vice President. The adoption of the Social Pedagogical Activity Act is for the first time legally regulated by social pedagogical activity in the Republic of Croatia and the proposed normative solution aims to ensure the necessary level of professional competences of persons performing social pedagogical activity and to create preconditions for improving the quality of the same. The concepts which form the content of social pedagogical activity are defined with a view to a clearer definition of what professional activities, interventions, actions and procedures are part of the social pedagogical activity. It is prescribed to cover social pedagogical activity with the aim of clearly defining the field of work, as well as the purpose of carrying out and the scope of action. Conditions for the exercise of social pedagogical activity, the way in which rights are acquired, the conditions for enrolment in the social educator's directory and the concept of an authorised social educator, as well as the conditions for the termination of the right to exercise socio-pedagogical activity. Conditions for the exercise of private social pedagogical practice, the right and obligation of professional training of authorised social educators, as well as the right to acquire specialised professional competences with the aim of promoting lifelong learning and protecting standards and quality of profession. The establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Social Pedagogues, the status of the chamber as well as public and other powers of the chamber with the aim of defining the work of the chamber, disciplinary responsibility, definition, definition of types of violations of duties and penalties as well as the way in which discipline proceedings are initiated and conducted by the members of the chamber, professional surveillance of work and measures in the event of the establishment of irregularities in the performance of the social pedagogical activity and infringements for natural and legal persons acting contrary to the provisions of the law. The following is proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Proposal for a Law on Social Pedagogical Activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126563	Thank you very much. If the rapporteur wishes to take the floor, no, I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126564	I thank the chairman, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, here I think that somehow, the time is moving us away less and less in this assembly, even though our subjects are extremely important to us. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Social Pedagogical Activity, which is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and today we know that there are around 1,800 social educators in the Republic of Croatia. This activity includes broad social action in the field of social care, education, education, health, internal affairs, justice, science, research centres, civil society organisations etc. Given the numerous areas of action, it includes evaluation, planning, intervention, promotion of mental health, counselling, treatment, post-treatment, representation, skills, education, psychotherapy and mediation. If we say it involves behavioral problems, then we mean different forms of problems from those risky behaviors to behavioral disorders. Over the years, the social pedagogue's title was changed, so at one point it was defined as a defecologist, they were defecologists, defecologists, graduate defecologist, social pedagogue. This bill regulates the content, conditions and way of carrying out social pedagogical activities and standards of education and professional supervision. The law also applies to those who have been recognised as a diplomat of another university outside the Republic of Croatia and who are carrying out this activity. It shall also define the field of work, the area of action and the purpose of carrying out activities and shall define the concepts relating to this activity. The conditions for the social pedagogical activity are very clearly laid down, the way in which the right to enrol in the social educator directory and the very concept of an authorised social educator are established and the conditions for the exercise of private practice are laid down. What should certainly be pointed out is that in 2011, writing is, let's say, the Social Pedagogues Act, but at one point, it cares about this and until today their rights and obligations are not regulated until the adoption of this law. In view of the need for continuous training and guidance towards narrow specialisations, there is an increasing need for this, the law prescribes the rights and obligations of professional training and the establishment of the chamber and its bodies. What we must stress is that this law, as I said for the first time, regulates the social pedagogical activity, as it promotes the psychosocial functioning and quality of life of users, or is done in all social areas affecting the health and quality of life, and thus imposes on us the very importance of social pedagogues in society. As they are most often employed in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, children's and pupils' homes, social care institutions, nursing homes, mental health institutions, most often working with the most sensitive population, which are children who have difficulty growing up and have to have a high degree of ampathy and ability to recognise children's needs. What would point out as well as educational rehabilitators the need for social educators nowadays is growing, if we start from birth and certain diagnosiss already in the first years of life then we will realize that the meaning of the social educator in society is extremely important. That is why it is important to pass such a law that will regulate their rights and obligations as well as all other professions that are of paramount importance to us in society but are also important to us in monitoring not only children older and adults, and that is why the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126565	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives of that SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Romana Jerkovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, this is a solid that the SDP Club supports, which is more about first reading, so it is realistic to expect that there is time to improve if there is a need for it, of course always exists. For a long time, we have laws that regulate related professions and social activities and educational rehabilitation activities and psychological and logo and psychotherapy, and we are glad that finally social pedagogy has come to order. Some of you may recall that in the spring of 2011, there were attempts when the proposal of the Law on Social Pedagogical Activity entered the parliamentary procedure, the first reading passed, but unfortunately, the second reading and implementation never experienced. It has been almost 8 years since then, and it has been unwarranted for a long time, it is no wonder that 1800 social educators have felt neglected, so if you want to be discriminated against by related professions, especially considering how important their work and their competences are for this modern Croatian society, it is very burdensome with problems. That is one relatively young science, but it is very dynamic and, as I said, today's Croatian society and time are very needed. This is why the Law is really welcome for us, it should have been adopted and it is good to define the concepts of social pedagogical activity and the field of work and the conditions and methods of carrying out activities, standards of education and the right and obligations of professional training, therefore, all that was important to regulate by the Law. As I said, we have arranged the Law and many other related professions, so it was really important to finally edit this profession. It is not only important for social educators, it is important, of course, for their profession, but it is also very important for clear relations between related professions, without talking about the importance of compliance with EU legislation. Therefore, the adoption of this Law is important for the creation and strengthening of a recognizable professional identity and social status appropriate to those of other related professions, and this profession truly deserves the same way, no less, no more than others. The law, among other things, provides for the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Social Pedagogues and all that is related to it, a strong and firm Chamber, is also recognised in previous cases as a protégé of the profession, which is working to promote the profession of the public, which requires amendments to the legal solutions when necessary, which is concerned with the development and expertise of the activities, which we at the SDP Club, of course, welcome. Social pedagogy is a relatively young profession, a new identity profession that is in constant formation and production, especially in some areas of work, and we believe that this Law will provide an even stronger and better needed level of professional competence for persons performing social pedagogical activity and thus create preconditions for improving the quality of the profession. The law is not perfect, but practice will show, after a certain time, what needs to be changed, done and adapted to the needs of society, the needs of profession, time, new challenges. And here comes the problem again, let's just say with art. 14, as well as in the Law that we discussed earlier, the Law on Psychological Activity. Here you go, Art. 14th century 2 says the areas of social pedagogy in which an authorised social pedagogogogog can be recognised speciality determines the Chamber by its Statute. Same problem again. I will not repeat what I said in the previous Law, but here we would really propose a new solution, so, not by the Statute, but by the Regulation, the argument is the same, it is better a solution that will be simpler and more practical and cheaper and that, somehow, it seems to me, through the debate so far, it is about laws dealing with very similar professions. So it would make sense that the laws are also uniformly written, maybe it's a bit of a clumsy name uniform, which means uniform law, but I think you know what I mean. You have a law in which a certain expertise from the Chamber's authority is taken something, and it's given to everyone and vice versa, it's illogical. Sometimes the termology isn't the same, it would be good if, all of this came from the same ministry, from your ministry, therefore, it would be logical if you'd been more careful about these things, but it can still be fixed and changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126567	Thank you very much. We will now move on to an individual debate and the first to appear is the honourable representative Marija Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126568	Thank you, Vice President. I will do the same very briefly because a lot has been said about the Law of the Previous, and it concerns the regulation of a profession through the work of a roof organization such as the Chamber. But what I would like to emphasise is, first of all, the importance of the role of a social educator. A colleague, Jerkovic, has already pointed out that this is a young profession and that is correct. The university was formerly called the High Defectology School and were actually called the Defectologist, studied, taught and acquired competences for different areas, so in the form of, therefore, an expert called the Defectologist, united and knowledge about people with disabilities and behavioural disorders and other difficulties or physical disability, or so on, everything was as a professor of the development of science as well as our higher, higher education in the area. Therefore, since 1982, we have, therefore, a particular education relating to a graduate social educator, which is, to date, in some minor or larger changes, namely in the title, only the title of experts themselves, almost the same, so today we are talking about the university's first-grader, or the master of social pedagogy. But what's important to say is that and what shouldn't be equated is, these are competences, and that's what we need to take care of when we talk about a system of education, because it's precisely in the regulation of the profession of a professional associate that we often have the case because schools don't have opportunities, no material resources, so they can't hire more different experts, different profiles leave that actually jobs that concern prevention, behavioral disturbances, behavioral risk prevention, and those professions that don't actually have primary contact with this or primarily have no competences as education and competences as well as social educators. I also recently advocated precisely work to recognise the work and competence of the social educator when we talked about the system of testing. Because it's extremely important to understand what competences a social pedagogist acquires in education right through those five years of his education so that he can answer all those questions in quality, all those problems that he, for example, encounters in working with people who are, as a trial, who are, therefore, punished, who have been punished and who actually have to, which are therefore in the system. And to do quality work with them then we must really have both quality and appropriate experts at these jobs such as a probationary expert and not, say, archaeologists or what this law actually enables. So this law itself will not bring respect to the competences of the social educators themselves if indeed in all areas where social educators are located, in which we do not respect what the social educators have been educated for. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would point out one article and one thing that I would suggest here is also highlighted in the e-consultation itself by experts and I think that there is enough time and that it can be corrected and it concerns the introduction into the activities that are therefore listed, the social pedagogical activities that are listed in paragraph 7(7) add the word ‘psychotherapy’ and therefore it would be socio-pedagic and psychotherapy for reasons why we have such activities listed in other laws. We have an activity on psychological, psychological activity and on social work. So we would really even it out in this way, and this way we would even these laws. In any case, I welcome the adoption of this law. I'm sorry it wasn't already passed in 2011 when the other two laws were passed. And I believe that in addition to these changes or these some additions that we have already mentioned for the 1800 social educators, it will mean a lot and for the activity itself and for all those who are users of the work of social educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126569	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There are different opinions on the position of professions in today's societies, some believe that the lack of professional power as a specific category of profession due to organisational, economic and political change. It is claimed to reduce the autonomy of professions and their ability to control professional activities. On the other hand, many argue that in all countries whether it is more developed, transition or developing countries, there is an expansion of those labour market sectors where professionals are employed. Professionals differ from non-professionals because they are based on theoretical knowledge that serves as a framework for professional assessment and problem-solving. Frisson says the profession on theory is based on specialization with autonomy of action. The working process for a professional is not a daily routine, but a problem-solving process. Professional work is a specialized work that cannot be done mechanically because work tasks vary from situation to situation and an expert must adapt knowledge and skills to circumstances if he wants to be successful. Practical experience can't replace the theory. Professions are generally based on theoretical knowledge from several scientific disciplines. This is especially the case with interdisciplinary professions involving social pedagogy based on pedagogy, psychology, sociology, law, criminology. It is important for the profession to be recognised in the professional and general public as an expert profession in a particular field or to be recognised by the state by a monopoly over specific knowledge and professional activities. The ideal situation is when the profession is the only one authorised to perform certain tasks or activities. One of the important elements of each profession is the existence of a professional association, whose task is to promote further development of the profession, protect professional interests and improve the professional position. This proposal regulates the establishment and granting of public authority to the Croatian Chamber of Social Pedagogues. It is not possible to maintain professional monopoly and professional autonomy, without within professional control and only discipline of experts. In order for professional ethics to be effective every future member of the profession, it must go through the process of professional socialization and adopt key elements of the code of ethics of the profession. Three important components of professionalism are belief in expertise, high ethical and professional standards and orientation to service, i.e. altruism. Social pedagogy pays attention to professional identity, professional education and expertise, employment and professional career, prevention of deprofessionalisation, as well as media popularity of professions. In other words, it is necessary to insist on both professionalisation and professionalism. In order to make this possible for the 1800 social educators in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126571	Thank you. We've got one replica, the esteemed mistress of Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126572	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Celić, Faculty of Educational Rehabilitation in Zagreb, is the only institution that organizes and implements study programmes, logos, educational rehabilitation and social pedagogy in the Republic of Croatia. And because of the growing challenges in society, individual behavioral problems, social pedagogy is becoming increasingly pronounced. The proposal for this law certainly needs to be supported and I'm surprised it hasn't been passed before, since we have about 1800 social educators enrolled in the register.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126573	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126574	So we have this transformation about higher education, from high-school defectology, through the college of defecology, to today's school of rehabilitation. So, the titles of professional titles were changed, today it is the university's first and master of social pedagogy, however, the desire for professional dignity, therefore, to recognise the profession of social pedagogy, which is now shaped by the Law on Social Pedagogical Activity, finally gets a new dimension for us in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126575	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126576	Proposal for a Law on Social Activity, First Reading, P.Z. number 552. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Social Activity and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when setting out the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that the unanimous 101 vote FOR the concluded conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126577	We would now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, first reading, P.Z. No. 554 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy, National Security, and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126578	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a draft bill, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. The law entered into force on 8 October 1991, therefore, on the day when independence of the Republic of Croatia was declared and many laws defining Croatia statehood and self-loathing took effect. In these 27 years, several novels, several changes and additions, have been experienced. The smaller changes and additions, and here's the government's view that now is the time for a little bigger novel of this law, and here's this proposal that you have before you. The law is otherwise very small in scope, the 38th article with transitional and final provisions is very complex and complex. First of all, according to its content and the subject it regulates, which it regulates, because each country, of course, of its Law on Citizenship, on the conditions it prescribes for the acquisition of citizenship, must be alert and, on the other hand, complex in its internal structure, because we have four basic ways of gaining Croatian citizenship, origin, birth on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, on international contracts and naturalisation. There are 3 ways of ending Croatian citizenship, with layoffs and by international contracts. Depending on what application is made by the Institute, there are different rules. This bill seeks to simplify the process and facilitate the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for members of Croatian people, Croatian emigrants and their descendants and spouses, which seeks to valorise the scientific, cultural, demographic, economic and general social potentials that exist in Croatian emigration. The most important changes that are proposed are to gain Croatian citizenship by the origin of a child born abroad whose parent is one of the parents at the time of his birth of a Croatian citizen, increasing the age limit for the registration of Croatian citizens, from the current 18 years to the 21st year of life. This wants to give the opportunity and opportunity to make a personal application for registration in the book of citizens and persons whose parents or guardians failed to do so until his age. Furthermore, a generational limit is left for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for the descendants of emigrants and they and their spouses are also exempt from the obligation to know the Croatian language and Latin letters, Croatian culture and social order. The question is often heard, so how do we know that someone who may be in the meantime, therefore, is 4, 5, 6 generations, more or by name, last name or other external signs, we cannot know whether this person is a descendant of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia, so there are ways to prove it. He must therefore, therefore, have clearly proved his relationship with the Republic of Croatia, so that he has left this country, it is usually in the form of a document that he has brought to himself or which can be subsequently obtained, to reconstruct, therefore, that a person was born for example in 1890 in the Republic of Croatia. This article speaks exclusively of eviction from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so our country defined within its current borders and therefore does not apply to ethnic Croats but to all those who have evicted from the Republic of Croatia. However, these laws then want to define more and more precisely the concept of emigrants because they exist, of course, could be different interpretations, if each of us might have some definition, so this law stipulates that the emigrant is considered a person who moved out of the Republic of Croatia before 8 October 1991, therefore, from obtaining independence from the Republic of Croatia. It is also prescribed who is not considered the person who moved out. For example, if someone had evicted from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but at that moment had no republican citizenship, then Croatia in the former state or homeland, therefore, it was even earlier in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Or he, for example, moved them from the region of today's Republic of Croatia to another country today with which the Republic of Croatia was in some state legal relationship. So someone may have moved to Slovakia or Austria or Hungary in 1906, so they won't consider themselves an emigrant. For example, in the '30s or '50s in Macedonia, he is also not an emigrant within the meaning of this law. This law also seeks to enable Croatian citizenship to be acquired by birth, therefore, by naturalising for minor children born abroad, one of the parents of Croatian citizenship acquired after the birth of a child. So first the parent, and later he was born, or the child was born before he was, I apologize after the parent gained citizenship. So it can't come from origin because at that point that parent was not a Croatian citizen, we regulated this article that I mentioned at the beginning. And such a child, a minor living abroad, can acquire Croatian citizenship if his parent is an emigrant, a descendant of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia or a member of the Croatian people. It is also proposed to simplify the implementation of evidence for members of the Croatian people who do not have personal evidence of the belongings of the Croatian people, if, for both parents, they are undoubtedly determined to belong to the Croatian people or have, for example, acquired citizenship based on art. 16 as members of the Croatian people. So in that case, they won't be asked for any new evidence. This primarily applies to young people, who are on the threshold of life, somewhere only adult, who may not have had a chance in their lives to particularly declare themselves to be members of the Croatian people in their country of residence. Now we're moving on to the end of citizenship. I said we have three possible ways of ending Croatian citizenship, dismissal, denial and international contracts. The most common in practice is layoff and it is therefore not only the result of the party's wish but also the consequence that a foreign country, whose citizenship it has acquired, wants to obtain a condition to deliver a discharge from our citizenship. Such persons, therefore, can be fired and fired and, if they so wish, can be relocated. 15 to be admitted to Croatian citizenship, but the Institute of Denial is something different. He assumes the party's active will, although the other state does not give up Croatian citizenship, means that person already has foreign citizenship, lives abroad and wants and gives up Croatian citizenship because such a person could not gain Croatian citizenship in the future. In practice, the number of such persons is extremely small, approximately 1 or 2% of all those whose Croatian citizenship ceases in one of these ways. This law for the first time introduces and seeks to introduce the possibility of abolishing or revoking a solution to Croatian citizenship, which is derived from marriage for the benefit of, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Foreigners or by false representation of, for example, stealing identity or fraud in administrative proceedings during the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, that is, if, when it has acquired citizenship if it is convicted of crimes against the Republic of Croatia and crimes against humanity and human dignity, it is therefore for the most serious crimes. Therefore, citizenship could, in this way, be annulled or abolished, of course, only by persons who acquired it at birth or naturalisation, not by persons who acquired it from origin. For example, such cases as false identity theft were, they are not mass, of course, but there are also days today, sometimes someone who has been or even decades ago has gained Croatian citizenship. Finally, in order to give a decent meaning to this act of acquisition of Croatian citizenship, it is also proposed to make a solemn oath. It would therefore be given during certain solemn occasions, days of statehood, days of independence and so on, therefore, national holidays, either in front of the authorities, official authorities of the Republic of Croatia in the country itself, either in front of the authorities of local or regional self-government if such authority is given to them and, of course, to diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia for persons living abroad of course. Finally, here are a few figures from the beginning of the application of this law to 31.12.2018 in Croatian citizenship, a million 92 thousand 382 foreign citizens were naturalized, so slightly less than a million and 100 thousand. This number does not include persons who are directly enrolled in the books of the citizens of which they come from, therefore, as children of Croatian citizens, regardless of the living of those persons, so that they are acquired by origin in the Republic of Croatia or abroad, it is important, therefore, that they are children of Croatian citizens, of course there have been many more. Of the above mentioned number, the basis of the provision of Article 16, therefore, as members of the Croatian people, citizenship acquired 681 thousand 301 persons, so more than 50%, more than half of all who gained citizenship at birth and as emigrants, their descendants or spouses of the emigrants 21,000 505 persons. Last year 2018, positive 4166 requirements were resolved, so so so many people gained citizenship and in that year 3629 citizenship applications were received, so some 500 fewer, here, so I did not mention those who were rejected, these usually move about 10 per cent annually, those who do not have conditions and are rejected. So if we look at the structure then 41% got citizenship in the past year based on Article 16 as members of the Croatian people, 21% as emigrants, their descendants, and the rest of these 38% are other purposes which are, therefore, from the length of stay in Croatia, marriage, special interest or this person mentioned, which were already, which were Croatian citizens and were given leave to acquire foreign and return to Croatian citizenship again. So by all these other legal grounds, about 38%. Here, thank you very much for your attention, I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126579	Thank you. We have a few replicas, the first respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126580	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome the adoption of this law. Typically, all our emigrants want to cooperate with their homeland, they are our great potential, when it comes to demographics but also when it comes to investment in their homeland. Therefore, your opinion on how positive this law will have effect and how much it will speed up the acquisition of Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126581	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126582	This law will certainly have very positive effects and results once it enters into force. He is already very well accepted by the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Co-operation with Croatians abroad who strongly supported him at their meeting, at their annual meeting held in Sibenik in November but I believe that he will contribute to a larger return, therefore in an effective return to the Republic of Croatia's new ideas, new investments as we witness he already has. I think this law, when it comes into force, will give a new turn for the return and for the better and greater economic prosperity of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126583	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126584	Now here's the answer to the lady, your colleague predicted it, but here's the question. On what data do you interpret, or claim that there will be an increased return of emigrants to the Republic of Croatia? And have you done any impact assessment in which the final number of these types of liberalisation, citizenship assignments, allocations, this no longer has any criteria to contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126585	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126586	So this law was done on a broad working group made up of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Demography, the family also, the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. So we collected all our data and those indicators tell us that especially information from the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia that this will mean increased arrival, especially people from further overseas countries, primarily the state of Latin America. These are not, therefore, so relaxed the conditions because these are the descendants of the emigrants of a person who would have had Croatian citizenship in origin here, but there is one discontinuity, in 2.3 generations and this is only the return of debt to these people and, of course, the quest to return the offspring to the land of their ancestors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126587	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126588	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased that this law has recognized everything that has plagued the emigrants of Croatia, first of all what you yourself have said, the overseas countries or the past 28 years, and that they have very often objected. However, I have answered your line for something else, which is our reality and what we must think about. And I'm going to talk a little bit more about my debate about our emigrants. So in 2008, the Croatian government gave around 2200 work permits. This year she made a decision to give 64.5 or 65,000 400 work permits. That is, therefore, our reality, which is waiting for us tomorrow, regardless of who it was arguing about and who didn't like it, and probably this poor state in the labour market will condition a new demand and a new occasion with requirements for Croatian citizenship. We just have to think about it. We must think, not because of those who will seek it, but because of our entrepreneurs, who will rely on them in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126589	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Yeah, I apologize, answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126590	... Agent, that is true year by year, the quota of work permits is increasing, unfortunately or fortunately if we have to, if we see that the government has to provide its entrepreneurs with a sufficient number of professional labour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She was not in 2008 but in 2015, so 4 years ago 1500 licenses, '16. 3000, '17. Nine, 18. So last year, 37 and 600, and here this year is 65,000 and a hundred. Indeed, there is a great demand for work permits and we believe that this, not entirely, of course, this law, is not the one that can resolve this issue, but that it will help and that Croatian citizens, future Croatian citizens, will come to our country without having to import so many foreign labour forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126591	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to open a debate. I'm drawing attention, that we have three clubs and 11 individual debates reported, so it's somewhere without a replica around three hours, about 11 o'clock, just so we know how to deal with each other. The first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be represented by Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier, perhaps longer than 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian Citizenship must, first of all, be seen in the context of the generally known situation, the negative demographic trends in the Republic of Croatia, as mentioned earlier by counterpart Shucker in his replica. So, in such a context, one of the directions of action certainly is and must be directed towards Croatian emigration and its demographic potential. We have repeatedly discussed in this House the role of Croatian emigrants, their role in fighting for international recognition, in defence, in rebuilding the country, and the need for their greater involvement in the people's period of development of the Republic of Croatia. In these discussions, both MPs and MPs have often and with full right warned of obstacles faced by emigrants, e.g. when applying for citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Government is now responding to these justified requirements with concrete measures proposed in this legislative proposal. They are, of course, not the only measures needed, but important moves from the work of the Ministry of the Interior, whose working group for the drafting of this draft co-operated with the government's advice for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which explicitly supported these proposals. So, the main objectives of all these measures are to just affirm and strengthen the links between the emigrant and the native Croatia, simplify the procedures for obtaining Croatian citizenship, and thus create better conditions for evicting members of the Croatian people from the emigrants who want to do so. In this respect, the government is proposing to us the following changes that are planned to be introduced by this law. So, in order to gain Croatian citizenship, the origin of a child born abroad, whose parent at the time of his birth of a Croatian citizen, is increasing the age limit for enrolment in the records of Croatian citizens until 21 years of age, so it has been 18, now it goes to 21 years of life. The second, and perhaps the most important measure in this package, leaves behind a generational limit to obtaining Croatian citizenship for the descendants of emigrants, now it was up to 3 knees, if I remember correctly, so now that restriction is moving and the obligations of language, culture and social order are being freed. This may seem to some to be an excessive degree of liberalisation of the citizenship process for the descendants of emigrants, but let's look at this situation from another perspective, therefore, from the perspective of the potential of these emigrants. For example. Here, the Croats of the third or fourth generation in Venezuela, which is currently in a very difficult situation, where we have one significant community of Croatian emigrants and their descendants, which may not be known by all Croatians or would not be able to explain who they are, for example. The powers of the President of the Republic of Croatia, but they are certainly eager to contribute to the development of the homeland of their ancestors, perhaps to start a new life here, to love Croatia and to be loyal citizens of the Republic and, of course, its development to install their work and already acquired knowledge. I think it is one of the key measures proposed by this proposal and which were particularly the request of our emigrant communities and their representatives in the government's council for Croats outside Croatia. In addition, this proposal further specifys the concept of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to prescribe that the emigrant is considered a person who moved from the Republic of Croatia before 8 October 1991. And it is also proposed to simplify the implementation of evidence for members of the Croatian people who do not have personal evidence of belonging to the Croatian people, whose parents are undoubtedly determined to belong to the Croatian people. This, too, I think, must be highlighted because there were a large number of objections from our DKP particularly in the overseas countries where this implementation of the evidence was complicated, complicated the entire process of obtaining Croatian citizenship, required some efforts that would sometimes lead to a time period of several months that were truly unnecessary and some of our emigrants would then give up Croatian citizenship. I think this measure is about to be met with such demands. It is also proposed here to give a solemn oath by a person who acquires Croatian citizenship by naturalisation and I think that this newspaper is also extremely good and should be welcomed, of course, as the secretary of state said, except that this will be given to the Croatian authorities here in Croatia, it will also be possible in our embassies and consulates. That is why this bill also says that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs will co-ordinate with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs primarily on implementing rules for this legislative provision. So, in all these measures there are more of them, but I have pointed out perhaps the most important here, especially for Croatian emigrants, these measures make it easier for their descendants to obtain Croatian citizenship, while at the same time defining the concept of emigrants, and then their rights. Consequently, the HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126593	Thank you very much, the next Advocacy Club is Independent for Croatia, in the name of which the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126594	Dear colleagues, Vice-President of the Assembly, there is no colleague, perhaps the most important law in modern Croatian history is in front of us, and if we don't do this by the end then there is no correctional exam, I don't think we have the right to a correctional exam. Here, the first law was passed by the Assembly in '91. Back in '91. A year ago, 28 years ago, I didn't repeat what they said before me, the MP and our guest from the MUP here. What have we seen since then? For 28 years we've been watching a Greek tragedy, a Greek tragedy where the Croatian diaspora becomes I'd say roosters in my country, they give the caste system you have in India, there they are at the bottom somewhere, after everything they've given here, not to repeat it because I've already said here 10 times in this assembly. Those who gave know what they gave from money to life to 6 Croatian army generals and other officers and officers. What we have now, this law is ahead of us, what we are looking at today, we have 3 MPs for 3 million Croats outside the country, plus Croats from BiH, it takes 3 years for citizenship, some other times waiting 10 years for one letter, and that bureaucracy is that, the brain freezes from that red tape inherited from the former system that generates corruption. It needs to be removed if every day people come, here and there are looking for bribes, it's transfers from that former state, you want to register the car, ask for bribes, can citizenship, ask for bribes.../incomprehensible/... it's our cancer wound. We need to get rid of that when it comes to diaspora. Chile, for example. There we saw a typical example of the purpose of sabotage when about 500 citizenship applications lay in drawers there for years, we know who was behind it, that I'm not repeating it again, and national personnel are not here from that party now and this now Mr Stier has been saying the problem we have in Venezuela, these people, their lives are at risk. In that banana republic there are people down there who ran state-owned enterprises, a language so that when I came to Canada when I was 3 years old, I wasn't supposed to know the language, but I learned it, that's what we should do in function, not form. Double taxation here we haven't solved with some states yet, people retired come here from other countries, hit them double taxation, one got retroactively I think 170,000 kuna retroactively to pay in the nursing home. Again frightening, for some years, we have ignored these people, some have cooled down, but it is crystal clear that for decades there has been a systematic campaign that these people are discouraged to come to Croatia. Now we're where we are. This has to be fixed and now this law needs clear instructions on what to do, we know who sabotaged it all, that we are not talking about national people who are caught by the autistic fear of this law because they are afraid of losing something, they will lose nothing, because these people, not only have the right to vote, have formally, but have to fly for 6 hours to vote how many Croats have voted outside the country, mostly in BiH who are the constituent people. This is a strategic issue of the Republic of Croatia. What gastro diplomacy was doing, our gastro diplomacy that had to deal with the censorship of Croats outside the country, with economic diplomacy, we'll see. Like I said, it's time for the correctional exam. All of this could've been solved. It could've been solved a long time ago. It was 91st, 92s. Here's an example, Israel. Read the Law of Israel, the Law of Return in 1950, two years after the establishment of the State of Israel. And what does this Law say? He says everyone, every Israeli has the right to return to his homeland wherever he is. Only two criteria were seen that banned perhaps entering their country. The first was that you weren't a threat to public health, that you didn't have infectious diseases and the second was that you weren't a threat to national security, simply. Look at Israel today, the population of Israel as it has grown today, and look at the Republic of Croatia and the non-stop talk about the demographic monster. Are we going to talk for the next three decades, or are we going to discuss the potentials of Croatian emigration, or are we going to do this job? The answer is clear. The Independent Club will advocate that, this Law is still unclear, there are some smoke curtains, e.g. as noted by our member of the Committee, Art. 6. e.g. who talks about some 45 days of administrative that can block, 45 days, so wait, the administration has to do its job as quickly as possible, it needs to shorten the procedure, some wait 10, 15 years, that's what I've said, clarity and reduction of the procedure. It's easy to prove its origins, genealogy and its nationality. You've got clubs out there. In symbiosis with these clubs, Croatian missions, a long time ago the censorship of Croats outside the country could be made. You have a Croat from Chicago to Oakland, they have clubs, parishes, you have these archives, births, deaths, it's not hard to do, but if you've given up Croatian citizenship, for example, as some who have committed aggression against the Croatian state, but are still citizens of the Croatian state according to the Constitution, huh, that should be considered. Implementation, when we get to implementation, implementation, what kind of performance will be on the ground? This means all of these, all of these institutions, holders who cooperate with Croats outside the home country, from the Committee to the Office, will have to be hired maximum to implement this Act on the ground. It's going to take, of course, political will. We have today that people, many people today who know nothing about this Law, will need a media strategy and clear instructions from these people that they know the criteria of citizenship and all that information must be on the Central State Portal, clear instructions for citizenship, step by step. I've talked about it before, and I've talked to the register about how easy it is to look for a family tree in our diaspora. That could have been done a long time ago. We have questions that are unresolved. For example. What about the Germans who have been driven out of here, say from Eastern Slavonia, who have been here for hundreds of years, but have disappeared from these places? You have a hundred thousand just from Eastern Slavonia. Are their descendants of these Germans who are defacto Croats of German origin, they will be allowed to return to their homeland and what will be the reaction of the Croatian state? Or are those Bene's cleavages still there, the Bene's cleavages, like in the Czech Republic or not? Clearly, we remember, these Germans were the most vital minority in that former state. You had a German village in 1905, that village had street lighting, and how do the descendants of the Croats who were driven out of that former system and went out? How do they look at all this? You have one irony that the descendants of these people who have been driven away today watch as some people from the former system give them the fate and the laws of citizenship. Ironic, but better late than never. Whether former refugees who have destroyed the Republic of Croatia, the community outside the country and filtered all communities, will be allowed to return to their homeland or will be tried for high treason, that is another question. What about the foreign volunteers who died for the Croatian state, and today no one knows anything about them, what about them, what about them. Some questions about this Law, we're talking about lustration laws, what the diaspora requires. The government of experts, that's what we're talking about, where the government of experts, where investments are, where I'm talking about economic development, can do it all out of country Croatia because the total monetary power of these people outside is almost $50 billion, you have out there these American Association of Croatian Professionals, there they are, coming, but they haven't yet engaged in full potential. Some countries, for example. China gives you citizenship from another country if you invest a certain amount of money, it's also economic development. In the end, what do you say in the end? This cannot be covered by any law, which is love for the Croatian state, it will not impose any law. Some do not know what this love for the Croatian state is, because they never had, the only citizenship they had was Yugoslav citizenship, and they will be activists of this fear fighting this law, but I am afraid that this has come to an end, for them I fear, and that the Croats will return, when they return, this is the process of one, the collapsing empire, this is just one cycle. Germany, for example. there, if you are a member of the EU or Switzerland, in Germany you have the right to double citizenship, it may be very easy to do so once the movement is washed. I will mention one man, entrepreneur Mark Franovic, who wrote me a letter 14 years ago who looked there and saw a man in Sydney who came to vote, came to the vote in Sydney. A man in a wheelchair. When he came there to vote, he couldn't vote. He wasn't on the list. And so that all of this wouldn't be a story, that this wouldn't be this symbol of this law of ours, of working on this law, so that it wouldn't be a symbol of this whole thing, of this man in a wheelchair waiting to vote there and he couldn't vote. Impotence. We have to move. In the end, I'm going to say this, who asked people for Croatian citizenship who came here to die. The man gave me a recent photo of Ivan Rados, who was killed by snipers on the Dubrovnik battlefield, was shot by a sniper, the first, it was the first Croatian soldier magazine, the first edition, in November 1991. He's right here. Then no one asked for citizenship. And now we care not about the function but about the mere form.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126595	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives, the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126596	Dear Vice-President of the HS, honourable representative, state secretary, representative of the Croatian government, respected fellow MPs, we do not have any colleagues in the hall. So, the Croatian Citizenship Act was passed in 6 months. In 1991, and since then, he has experienced several changes. Nationality is defined in the legal theory as a legal relationship between a natural person and a sovereign state on the basis of certain rights and obligations. I think that, before the debate itself, I would like to point out the basic principle of our Law on Croatian Citizenship, which is the principle of the legal continuity of citizenship. What does that mean? This means that the person who was a citizen of the former state on 08.10.1991, who was a citizen of the Socialist Republic of Croatia, therefore had a republican citizenship, became by force of the law and the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of nationality and residence, therefore this is the principle of legal continuity. Our Citizenship Act, still in force, is based on earlier citizenship laws, on that socialist period and on the Law on Citizenship of the 50s and 65s and on the Law on Citizenship, the Republic citizenship of 77th. This is important to know and note because many of our citizens were not actually aware at the time, perhaps even today that all the republics of the former state had their own regulations to regulate republican citizenship which actually did not produce any legal effects at the time, so the citizens did not even take too much account of it. What does this bill bring? This bill in its assessment of the situation, i.e. the explanation, says it seeks to help resolve demographic issues through the facilitated process of obtaining citizenship for members of Croatian people abroad and for Croatian emigrants. In particular, it leaves out the generation limit for obtaining Croatian citizenship for the descendants of emigrants in a straight line and their spouses and is further liberalised so that they do not have to meet the conditions which they now have to fulfil under the applicable law, i.e. knowledge of language and letters, Croatian culture and social order. So that's true of Croatian emigrants. And what about the emigrant? The emigrant, according to the law, is considered a person who moved before 8.10.1991 from the Republic of Croatia, but is not a person who moved out of the Republic of Croatia and did not have a republic of citizenship, that is, Croatian republican citizenship, or ethnicity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that's not the person who changed residences and went to live somewhere else, in the area of some republic of the former state. Okay. The bill goes precisely to the aims of the emigrants, so the Croatian emigrants by this definition, and now that I'm looking at it, okay, politics decides, legislation decides, the state decides, it's of strategic interest, and that can be okay for me. But if we put this solution in line with some other problems in practice, then I don't think that's okay. And now I'm going to say something about it. First, if we look at the law from the perspective of EU membership, then we need to know that our citizenship rules directly affect citizenship or EU citizenship. So someone who becomes a citizen of the Republic of Croatia becomes an EU citizen. And the Commission's view that national rules in citizenship should contain the principle of proportionality and discrimination. These are principles that are clearly developed through EU court practice and all members should actually pay attention to this and all Member States should pay attention to all EU citizens without distinction. There is, for the sake of information, I believe that colleagues who are here, participate in the debate know this, we also have the European Convention on Citizenship of 97 which has entered into force, which has one other principle, the principle of residence which also speaks about the principle of non-discrimination but should also be said that the Republic of Croatia has not ratified this Convention but it is important to know what principles are being promoted in Europe. What in this proposal did I miss to edit? So one of the fundamental principles of gaining citizenship is by origin... And Article 4(1) says both the current and the one that we are going to change, in fact the same definition that the child whose parents are Croatian citizens at the time of birth is becoming a Croatian citizen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has no more natural things, so if the parents are Croatian citizens and the child is a Croatian citizen. A person who, for example, was born in Serbia or BiH and the parents of Croatian citizens should be a Croatian citizen, there should be no problem. Well, if it was born in the former state or if it was born today. And we have a problem with that. We have a problem, for example, that children who were born in the former state of Serbia or BiH and because of complex, republican regulations, national regulations that still made it clear if they were children, if they are parents of the same republican citizenship, the child can only be a citizen of those republics. By mistake, the parent would register the country of birth, which was not verified because it did not produce legal effects but later we have a problem that these persons, not Croatian citizens, cannot acquire Croatian citizenship. Although Article 4(1) states that a child was born of Croatian citizens, a Croatian citizen. So the error was recorded but the position of the MUP was that the principle of legal continuity was violated, the principle of continuity was violated, it doesn't matter what the error was they were recorded in another country's records. We also had this problem in Croatia that the child was wrongly listed what would have happened, the parent said the mistake, it doesn't matter what 20 years since the mistake, you're no longer a Croatian citizen. That could have happened to me, for example. It couldn't have happened to me, but I say hypothetically. If that happens to me today I can't be a representative, I can't be employed by the state service, I can't vote even though I mean now socially and politically active, I can't have a number of citizenship rights. I think it is not fair, as it is not fair when a person is mistakenly enrolled in another country's citizenship, if we know that he has evidence that the parents are Croatian citizens. In its public debate, the MUP said, Article 4(1), if a person is born of Croatian citizens, this article applies and the Ministry of Administration must enter it in the citizens' book. The position of the Ministry of Administration is if the child is now a full-aged person cannot be entered, cannot become a citizen, cannot be entered because she is adult. Now this solution legally suggests that if a person is born abroad and one of the parents of a Croatian citizen only has a period to enroll, a period of 3 years and if both parents are Croatian citizens and become adult cannot be entered. Is that fair? I don't think so. So if one of my parents is a Croatian citizen, they can sign up and if they're both my friends. I think that until the second reading, the MUP must take a clear view whether the principle of origin is applied or not. So this law liberalises, for example, that someone who is the 7th generation of Croats in South America becomes a Croatian citizen, OK, and someone who is born here, the first generation of their Croatian citizens cannot acquire Croatian citizenship. So, is that okay? I don't think it's right. I don't think it's right. I think until the second reading, these illogicalities need to be corrected. I think I made this very clear when I was detecting these problems. So these children are now adult persons cannot be a Croatian citizen because according to the MUP, but not only by the MUP, but also by the court cases, they are injured by the principle of continuity, they cannot be registered by the Ministry of Administration as Croatian citizens, because adult persons, although the MUP says they can, that Article 4 paragraph 1 should be respected, and then we have the first generation of children of Croatian citizens who cannot therefore be registered with their own will, and let's say if this law is voted on by children whose parent is only a Croatian citizen they will have the opportunity to express their position for three years and become Croatian citizens. Those persons who, according to whom they could correct the injustice of this amendment, would not automatically send Croatian citizens, would have to apply for Croatian citizenship, so they would have to show their will. So they are Croatian citizens according to their parents, by law enforcement. And what a minimum state should do to enable them if they demonstrate their will to become Croatian citizens in the administrative process. The position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is that the mistakes of the administration must not cost citizens, that is, the position of the European Court of Human Rights. We've had wrong practices here for 20 and a few years, 20 and a few years. And I'm saying, now we're proposing amendments to the law, and I think it's time for us to correct these injustices and mistakes because we can't defend these first solutions if we don't correct these solutions. Because it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make any real sense. This is discrimination, then. In the end, I'd like to warn you one more thing, and it's on a not-know-what, if the proposer was talking about it, unfortunately I wasn't in the halls, about the Roma... So, we had a certain number, there was no colleague of mine, so I'll talk then instead, we have a certain number of Roma... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, without citizenship, they have no citizenship, it is difficult to determine, in fact, the identity of such persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These people still live in the Republic of Croatia, they have a difficult access to social, health, education services, and we as a state take care of myself, we have to take care of it. I know that there are action plans, that the MUP also participates in this, now I am not accusing the MUP here of doing anything, in order not to be misunderstood, but only to appeal, that the MUP together with other resolutions, try to solve this problem as painlessly as possible, to get these people to get the papers, to be familiar with their rights and, if possible, to gain Croatian citizenship if they express their position. As for some other things, here's what I would suggest, by harmonising the bill with the State Partnership Act and what I missed, I don't know, by law, I may not have clearly read, in giving therefore, the solemn oath whether, therefore, I didn't read to the end, whether the act of taking the oath has legal consequences on the very process of acquiring Croatian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126597	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Right away, the SDP Representatives' Club will not support these amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, as we estimate that there are many unacceptable elements of ethnocentrism in it. We don't mind making it easier for Croatian emigrants to gain citizenship, and besides my island in Chile, there are more people than there are on the island itself. However, as we do not see the political will of the Ministry of the Interior, to solve these problems which Mr Milosevic spoke of, and which concern not the people, who are impediments to the Croats and who already live a few, excuse them, they live since their birth, but their families live a few dozen or a hundred years outside of Croatia, they do not know either the Croatian language, nor the Croatian social order and we make it easier for them Croatian citizenship, which I personally have nothing against. I am not inclined to give credit to the government to ignore the problem of the people who lived with us, they may have gone to school with us, but the bureaucratic address has been entered in the wrong republican citizenship, which knows the Croatian language or some similar language, which knows the good Croatian social order, in fact, kicked them on the back, maybe because they can't get citizenship at all and that despite the recommendations and suggestions of the attorney general and certain participants in the public debate, it has not been decided in the best way not to even apostrophy it as a problem. If a similar law came to a second reading, there would certainly have been a lot of amendments to it, but as in the name of the club of the ruling majority of fellow Milosevic made the remarks that I was going to make and how we're going to wait for the MIP's second reading solution, then I can't say that we won't support the final bill, but this one in the first reading won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126599	Thank you very much. We move to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected vice president of this high house, MP Miljan Brkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126600	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues, no colleagues, dear secretary of state. 50 years ago, as I recall, Neil Armstrong said this was a small step for a man great for humanity when he entered the moon, or Mars, as they say. I think this is also a small step for Croatia, but one big step for Croatian emigration, as far as the amendments to these laws on Croatian citizenship are concerned. Personally, you'd be happier to go with a brand-new law on Croatian citizenship, but these changes that aren't just cosmetics, such as some of the changes that have been passed in the past, although the law has been for 28 years, I think it's time for a new law, not always for any changes. I think these changes are, however, much more calcite than they were in previous periods. So, I would ask the secretary of state to think as legislators, to go with a whole new law on Croatian citizenship, to join Croatian citizenship, because 28 years is too long, many trends have changed, many circumstances have changed, relations have changed in the world, relations have changed in Croatia and in our second country of BIH, where a large part of our Croatian people have moved out and gone into the world's perils, and also, in the last 28 years, we have had the Homeland War, a lot has changed, and I think it's time for a whole new law on Croatian citizenship. We know the role and importance of our Croats who have left Croatia and Croatian areas, we know that they have evicted for economic reasons, but also for political reasons, some and persecuted, in the former dungeon of the Croatian people. We know the role and importance of Croatian emigration was also in the Homeland War, when it was the most difficult for us to create the Croatian state. We also know today how much the role is and how much the clues are, when I say the signs we are talking about financial signals, this fellow Shuker knows better at an annual level that is measured in billions of kunas on an annual basis by members of the Croatian people in the Republic of Croatia. And I think it is also high time that these changes were made and I really welcome these amendments and I think this law will make it much easier and simpler to accept Croatian citizenship. Of course, with every law, legislator, or state, sends a message. A fellow Milosevic said the political decision is such that it goes in that direction. And thank God the time has come for us to send a message to our emigrants that their doors are open, that they have a fair and correct relationship here and that we give them a hand for a possible return and a private step is admission to Croatian citizenship regardless of whether they are in a generation of 1st, 2rd, 3rd or I don't know which and that we simply give them a hand to invest in the Republic. I personally think all investors in the Republic of Croatia are welcome. Of course, those who have clean and legal money. But I also think that I prefer the investor of the Croats, or members of the Croatian peoples, from the emigrants, who returned to the Republic of Croatia and who wants to make his profit here, and believe me, they're not looking for anything but an equal game without red tape, without administration because they're used to living in orderly states, in orderly systems. So I think it's high time that both that prejudice and that software are negative about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia we start to change and to realize that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, i.e. members of the Croatian people outside the Republic, or members of our emigrants are huge potential, my colleague Stier was talking about demographic potential, economic potential, the potential of life in organised democratic countries, the potential of being in sports, whether in cultural and in-house potentials, and I think we need to use that potential especially in the situation where we are now facing this negative trend of demographic growth and also when we are faced with a huge exodus from the Republic of Croatia, which for some other reasons. And if we're going to be honest with each other, and because of the disappointment of the whole situation, why are we politicians and the media and all of us on the social scene? Because we have to ask ourselves what happened in the Croatian country after the Homeland War, after all the horrors we've been through that now young people with families leave the Republic when we still have a free country, an independent country, we have a regulated country, a NATO member, an EU member, of course, and some others, many laws need to be regulated and laws implemented. But unfortunately, we all have to wonder together why so many people leave the Republic of Croatia. And then we have a pool from our Croatian emigration, from our diaspora, so why their love and their emotions and their good will to return, and the first step is... Croatian citizenship would not be exploited and dealt with positively? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's good in this law is that this age limit has increased to 21 years, so 3 years from now, this generation limit is left out. For the first time, as far as I know, it clearly defines the concept of emigrants. But what I think is not good, and we talked about it on the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which is the deadline of 45 days in article 6. So we know that this is a special provision, Article 12 on special conditions for admission to Croatian citizenship when it comes to the special interest of the Republic of Croatia and we know that this is a very small number of these requirements. Then it is not clear to me why the legislator proposes a 45-day provision that someone is obliged, that someone should respond and if he does not respond that this is considered a negative decision to join Croatian citizenship. We, with this provision, legalize the maltenes against the work of the state administration. So I don't understand why we put that 45-day limitation provision and why we don't remove that provision and simply all the government authorities or public authorities are obliged to act, they are obliged to do their job. The MUP is the bearer of the whole story as regards admission to Croatian citizenship as well as all other ministries and all other agencies and all other bodies of the state administration are obliged to comply and implement laws and to be at the service of citizens, bii service and not to legalise maltenes with this reluctant, so that we can legalise non-treatment, additional red tape, etc., etc. So I would ask you to think about it and that this item is moving away and that a little bit of a different formula and that there is simply no provision. We have in some other laws, as far as I can remember, lawyers might know better, as far as obtaining a building permit, if it's not answered within a certain time, that it's considered positive. I don't think it would be good to apply it here, but I'm sure it's not such a provision that it's negatively not good and it needs to be removed because let's not legalize the administration's silence. In my opinion, we should also, in general, standardise the deadlines in which Croatian citizenship must be made, i.e. in which a decision on admission to Croatian citizenship must be made. And that's not the answer. So I don't see why some procedures must last a year, two, three, four, five years, which further dimming, dimming and demoting members of the Croatian people abroad and simply introducing that deadline, whether it's an optimal deadline, one year or two years, and that I am based on this law to adopt a rule that will be followed by all the bodies of the state administration acting on your demands as holder of the whole story. It is simple to give them deadlines, to give them powers, to give them responsibility and to choose to act within that time limit and that simply whoever is the applicant of Croatian citizenship has a clear answer. In conversation with emigrants, it is the biggest problem, this longevity in this double taxation etc., etc., what I finally want to say is that we must never forget the contribution of Croatian emigrants, they give unconditional love to Croatia, they gave in the Homeland War, they give it to them today, and we have to give it back to them with such steps minimally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126601	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Vlaha Orepić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126602	First, let me say that I support your initiative in terms of making a new law, because they're all cosmetics. I also agree with the message the law should give, which is that the doors of Croatia are open to diaspora. However, you mentioned a large number of emigrants from Croatia today because you believe that today Croatia is a dungeon of Croatian people and that is why they are moving people out of Croatia and who is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126603	The response of the respected representative and Vice President Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126604	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Vlaho Orepić, obviously you did not listen well, I did not say that today's Croatian prison is a Croatian people's prison and I do not think so, and I said that from the former dungeon where the Croatian people were in the position in which they left for political but economic reasons, we all know that. They're leaving today because of the economics, and also because of the disappointment of the whole situation, and I said that we all have to ask ourselves together on the political scene why this is happening. We politicians and media and all who participate in social life, which is why the whole family is leaving the Republic of Croatia, today when we have a free, orderly, democratic country, and on the other hand here we have the great and huge potential of Croatian swimming pools, Croatian peoples in emigration, and we are also defending them with various administrative bureaucratic obstacles to return or membership or membership into Croatian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126605	Thank you, next replica of the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126606	Thank you, colleague Brkic, I am interested in your opinion, therefore, in relation to Article 15, which norms the abolition of Croatian citizenship, and this is clearly said to eliminate citizenship for those who have earned it by virtue of marriage, by representing fraud, by misrepresentation, etc. as well as if it is found that persons have thus acquired Croatian citizenship and have been convicted of the most serious crimes against humanity and human dignity, which is fine. However, how to treat those members or Croatian citizens who have gained Croatian citizenship as one of, as another citizenship, therefore have dual citizenship that works against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, specifically oppose the integration of the south and north of Croatia, commit political violence against members of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens, for example in BiH. Is it necessary to standard it too?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126607	The answer of the respected Vice President Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126608	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Ljubic, my opinion and my view of those who have acquired Croatian citizenship in an illegal and illegal manner, various frauds, counterfeits, false statements and false statements, my view is that they need to be taken away from that citizenship, although we must take care of the constitutional category of rights acquired there and whether it is possible for the basis of our Constitution for such situations, and for everyone else that you have spoken against the interests of the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia, I think we must find ways, find tools and instruments to prevent them from being a Croatian citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126609	Thank you. Now we'll move on to an individual debate and the first one will be a respected representative of Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126610	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, fellow MPs, was stressed by several participants in the debate so far that the current government of the Republic of Croatia is within its 2016-2020 programme orientation that it is one of the priorities of including Croatian emigrants in social and political life of the Republic of Croatia. At a meeting of the Croatian government's council for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia two months ago in Sibenik, where representatives of numerous associations from Croatian emigrants attended, the need to liberalise the conditions for remembering Croatian citizenship was stressed. And in the assessment of this proposal, the amendment and addition of the Law on Croatian Citizenship highlighted the ambition that by giving more favourable conditions for Croatian citizenship, it wants to check or enable the effect of demographic renewal in the Republic of Croatia by encouraging interested people to join Croatian citizenship. Respecting the facts cited by counterparts Milosevic and Bauk in their debate, which I consider necessary to correct and regulate because of a number of circumstances that have been highlighted by the questions of the legal continuity of Croatian citizens in relation to the dates mentioned in the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which is necessary to correct, not only towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, following this continuity, but also towards Croats who have worked in the former republics of the former Yugoslavia, and who have also, in a certain way, been denied, to realise the possibilities, i.e., their descendants, realised opportunities for Croatian citizenship. Regardless of the numerous positive steps in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian Citizenship, I would like it to be necessary to do one more part of the steps in terms of liberalisation for the acquisition of conditions, for admission to Croatian citizenship. This approach would be based on the need for a more flexible definition and concept of a Croatian emigrant and the concept of a member of the Croatian people. Why? It seems to me that in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, all these years, the past 30 years, there has been a kind of deviation from Croatian emigration, for reasons that neither the nature of Croatian emigration nor the circumstances on which Croatian emigration was formed. So I will briefly remind myself of four key cycles that have formed today's Croatian emigration, not only from the territory of today's Croatian state, but also from other Croatian ethical spaces in the BIH, Montenegro, Serbia or where Croats live as national minorities in 12 European countries. Namely, the first cycle, therefore, of Croatian emigration, began in the half of the 19th century. The second cycle took place after the 2nd century. The war. The third cycle is particularly expressed by obtaining employment opportunities in a number of European countries, '60s. And '70s. years and fourth cycle as a consequence of the war in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. Within these cycles, formed Croatian emigrantism has never been, and I have been convinced, but in several cases, in the countries where our emigrants live, it has never been shared across the republican borders of the former Yugoslavia, but Croatian emigrants associations are gathering Croats, not only from today's Republic, but also from the region of today's Republic, parts of Serbia, parts of Montenegro and members of Croatian minorities. This should be taken into account, when to approach, in my opinion, a broader definition of the concept of Croatian emigrant, which should include Croatians from other ethnic Croatian spaces, especially in the BiH and other neighbouring countries. Regardless of the fact, therefore, that the former Article 16 in the former text, therefore, of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, allows, members of the Croatian people, to compensate for this restriction of Article 11 so the concept of a Croatian emigrant, I appreciate that it is necessary to enable Croatian emigrants, that both persons have the possibility and conditions for easier acquisition of Croatian citizenship. I also stress the fact that due to the nature of relations in the BIH, where the Bosnian Herzegovic emigration, today, is understood as Bosniak emigration and, therefore, within the framework of the World Diaspora Union, which is falsely called the World Federation of BIH, only Bosniak associations in a number of European states act, while Croats from the BIH are gathered within Croatian emigration associations with Croatians from the Republic of Croatia and other Croatian ethical spaces. The same question, that is, the same nature of the gathering is when the Serbs of BIH are concerned and all these facts should be taken into account, when it comes to the position of Croatian emigrants, positions, that is, the concept of members of the Croatian people and the whole context, because the efforts of the former governments of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to the national security strategy, the strategy of relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that in a certain way, with this relationship and still, in my view, rigorous conditions, when it comes to Croatian emigrants, the concept of Croatian emigrants, the concept of members of the Croatian people, we send a bad political message to Croatian emigrants, which we read today in Croatia's territory of today's Croatian ethnic areas. If '90. year, when Croatian emigrants made an immeasurable contribution to the construction and creation of the Croatian state, the then Croatian political thought did not share Croatian emigration, especially today, after 30 years of Croatian creation, should not be shared in this way. All this I was saying can be incorporated into the new text of the proposal and the amendment of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, using the examples of Italy, France, Germany, Hungary, where those within their own, therefore, and the Constitutional Principles, and besides, the Constitutional Principle, Article. The 10th Croatian Constitution and calls for this kind of responsibility, enables the spread of one definition of Croatian emigrant and members of the Croatian people to make Croatian citizenship even more liberal. Finally, I appreciate, and a number of colleagues had such proposals, that it would be necessary soon to pass the Law on Croatian citizenship with a completely amended text and I appreciate that these positive steps should be used to test the demographic opportunities of Croatian emigration when it comes to the Republic of Croatia. In order for us to have real indicators, the interest of Croatian emigrants towards the possibility of obtaining Croatian citizenship should be made possible by the fastest, most liberal conditions and then we will be able to speak more seriously about the relationship of Croatian emigration towards return and life in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126611	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126612	Mr. Raguž, as regards Croatian liberalisation of the Institute of Citizenship, I'm going to ask you one thing, what and how to do, I don't know if you've heard that along the border area of the Republic of Croatia there is something that is problematic and a problem and it's called a fictitious residence, or exactly to say false residences and those who use these false residences towards you whether they should be deprived of citizenship or not? For example, in Vukovar you have a situation where 167 children received a 7-year child's allowance, when it came in seven years to enroll the first grade of primary school they enrolled only two, 165-tier children there were, were not residents of the Republic of Croatia. I'm interested in your opinion on that. In the context of a natural subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126613	The answer of a respected representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126614	So the living circumstances of the Croats in BiH and the Republic of Croatia as a rule of law, the emphasis should therefore be on the functioning of the rule of law. But it is clear that both the Republic of Croatia and the state of law should be able to enable the Croats in BiH by their political engagement at international level, as well as individuals who seek to stress that you have stressed the abuse of some of the opportunities provided by the existing legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia so that they do not happen. The responsibility is for the above facts that you stress and in a certain way discredit, so members of the Croatian people in BiH are primarily on the Republic of Croatia. Both in terms of the functioning of the rule of law and in terms of responsibility for the position of the Croatian people in the BIH, which today thanks to such a relationship and is uneven.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126615	Thank you. We had a breach of the Rules of Procedure raised the respected vice president of Brkic's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126616	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Vlaho Orepić violated article 238 because he spoke about a topic that is not a topic, so this is not about any residences, but this is about admission to Croatian citizenship. The fact that Mr. Vlaho Orepic was the Minister of the Interior in time, thank God he was no longer, does not mean that the Croatian people and members of the Croatian people from BiH are to blame for everything and let us not put them in one criminal, criminal sphere. The Republic of Croatia has its own laws, has its own institutions and let's not put one whole people and members of one people from BiH, our people, our countrymen into one criminal part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126617	Thank you. I estimate that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, although little has happened, counterpart Orepic has left the topic. A colleague of Orepic's has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, but I don't think it makes any sense. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So when we talk about this law, then we simply have to touch the context in the time and space in which this law is passed. So by entering Euro-Atlantic integration, Croatia has rounded up its process of independence and logical thing that it is finally matured time for us to start a little bit and in a different way to think and think about our brothers, about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, who no matter what segment we take but everyone has their own problem. And that's why I'm going to put my debate in a slightly wider context. I said in the replica that this law is an improvement. And we can now look in an article for shades of whether it was supposed to be one way or another and we'll never be satisfied. But with this law, there are some things that are crucial to me and even important to how important citizenship is. And one is pensions and taxing pensions, paying double taxes. First of all, I'm thinking of overseas countries, so the United States. The second is what I think, given that most of our emigrants want to return at a mature age and that's the Health Insurance Agreement. So it's a law that goes by this law and we can't look beyond that economic context. But now I'm going to elaborate a little bit wider what I said and in my replica, just that's the problem that's waiting for us. So Croatia because of its demographic picture, because the Croatian passport has given every Croatian citizen the opportunity to go to work wherever he wants and where he thinks he will be better, it is simply a fact. Because if it wasn't, we'd probably have 250, 300 thousand unemployed today. And why did those Croats go? We can discuss it as much as we want, but everyone in some segment was in a moment to make something happen, so that something doesn't happen. However, the Croatian economy, the secretary of state corrected me with even more fresh data. In 2008 it is kind of a reference year because it was a year before the crisis but this 2015 and this information on 1500 work permits is even more indicative when we take that practically only 4 years after that amount has increased more than 50 times. And given the labour market crisis, and even our emigrants who want to return, let's not forget that in Germany lives third generation of Croatians from BiH, many of them have not resolved their citizenship because of this or that, so we have to think about it, but we must also think that, because of the need for the labour market, Croatians from BiH will come to the top of their employers, they will practically rely on the functioning of themselves and their companies and we in this law on citizenship simply take this as a problem of the future. Because look, why am I saying this, why did I mention work permits, like it was a problem getting a work permit for, forgive me, for the shepherd, and there were such cases there 10 years ago, now for maybe a year or two will no longer be a problem with the work permit but someone who came to work in Croatia will show up as an expert, etc., for their reasons wanting to have a Croatian passport, will be a Croatian citizen and will be the basis for the development of a company. It is simply, this economic criterion that we have to count on, with this all patriotic view of our Croats who went outside, but among them there will be Croats alike who, for this reason or that reason, will have problems with.../incomprehensible/... citizenship. So, no law can solve everything, perhaps by passing this law, this is a topic for thinking about the future, such as avoiding double taxation for changing some other laws. It's just facts, our reality. Because look at investors today when they come to the Republic of Croatia one of the most important things with legal certainty is whether you have a workforce that we're going to hire that will be able to do these jobs. And be assured that this will be a question that will be raised more and more frequently in Croatia in the coming years. You today have certain areas in the Republic of Croatia where I don't know what kind of project you bring, unfortunately you don't have someone to lean on, when I'm talking about who the living people are, and you can't solve that problem in a month, as we made one mistake, I'm going to say it openly here, with the restriction of working permits those workers who traditionally worked in the Republic of Croatia in the construction sector have skipped the Republic even though the Republic was more acceptable to them than the destinations in which they are today. First they didn't have language barriers, second thing they had closeness and third thing to make builders today in the Republic of Croatia is purely decent and look what happened to our builders. Because of the lack of understanding, so we just have to be smart, these people have gone whether it's Austria, Germany and what they are forced to do today, our construction sector has to work, we've had to reach out to workers from some other areas that have never worked in the Republic, who don't have so much knowledge, who have a language barrier and a number of other problems, because just tomorrow when some employer or someone comes in and asks for citizenship for one of their employees with all the security and other checks we just have to be flexible, we just have to think about it. Because watch what your colleague Brkic and others have been talking about for 45 days, why bureaucratize and administer where everything is clean and where there are no checks, it simply doesn't need to. Or, say, avoiding double taxation, everyone will ask why America didn't sign that contract with the Republic of Croatia, why, because it simply had no economic interest, they signed a double taxation agreement with countries with which they had an interest. Why? Because in America their tax system is such that the gross tax is on profit, their sales tax in certain countries is 2 and 5% and they normally do not care that money is not in the interest of the tax paid somewhere in Croatia to be recognised as a paid tax in America or to say that some pension or something is taken to Croatia and not to be taxed in America. These are all facts, these are all things we should think about but it is good that we also listened to the Croatian Office outside of Croatia and advice and everything else because the simple question we all heard when we walked around the world and when we met with the Croats was the question of that citizenship. Most of these Croats did not leave Croatia voluntarily, some went after bread with their stomachs, some left for a simple reason because if they hadn't gone, they would have been in jail. Many of them have made successful careers, and today we only have to enable them to return easily and efficiently, to bring their experience and knowledge to Croatia, to make us think differently and think differently. Because that's the point of the whole story, because look at it as if you don't go outside and until you see some things, some things seem impossible to you, then when you see how it's simple it is to apply that knowledge to yourself and those knowledge that the Croats have somewhere, whether in Germany, whether in America, whether in Australia, is a great wealth one great potential to the Croatian future and I didn't once know how to say it at these meetings, please don't just invest in Croatia out of patriotism, invest in Croatia out of interest and it will be a genius thing for you and for Croatia because unfortunately in some privatisation processes there have been a lot of things going on and it's something that created a negative picture and a certain skeptic of Croatians towards returning to Croatia. It is up to us to send a different message with this law, but the same thing is that, in parallel with this law, we are also thinking about some of the economic effects that are ultimately the most important. Because if a man has nothing to live on, it's for nothing to give him any citizenship and any space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126619	Thank you, we have some replicas. He is the first respected representative and vice president of this home, Millian Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126620	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow Shucker, you mentioned that with this procedure of admission to Croatian citizenship, the great dissatisfaction of our emigrants with the Double Taxation Agreement, so I am interested in what your opinion is, since you were Minister of Finance and an expert in this area, why so far, as far as I know, Croatia has 63 signed agreements, there is no agreement signed with the United States, we are the only member of the EU that has not been signed with the United States and one of the 3 members of NATO alliances and also with Australia, and we are familiar with some data, colleagues Kovac and colleagues Stier would know better, over a million members of the Croatian people living in the United States and over 200 thousand is Croatian Diaspora in Australia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126621	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126622	So when we talk about double taxation, then we have to divide these two segments. One is these overseas countries with which we do not have a signed contract, so I said that America simply had no economic interest in doing so with Croatia, but in my opening speech, I said that we are now a member of Euro-Atlantic integration and, looking at it, they would simply have to go into the process to sign a double taxation agreement. I've been here, in this high home for the past six or seven years when some have introduced taxes on foreign pensions, talking a lot about it because, look, it's illogical if someone has earned a pension in Germany, Switzerland or elsewhere, they're paying taxes there, all expensive, and now that they come to Croatia to tax him. So there is the same problem that simply, which should be considered and thought about, is not a problem for fellow counterpart Katic Maric. Regardless of the EU's opinion on this or that I think I can work things out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126623	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126624	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you mentioned, as far as our economy is concerned, two wound cancers, I'd say that today are plagued by the entire economic sector. So I'm saying that we're late for two big processes that you've mentioned, and that's creating conditions for easier labour imports. We won't have anything to import anymore. All those workers who came from third countries from our neighbouring countries, they have already, as you said, moved to other countries and we will hardly be able to meet the labour needs of those countries because they are simply gone, we can also raise quotas for both 50 and 100 thousand, but they are simply difficult to find on the market. The other thing is, you mentioned very well that conditions should be created as well as for citizens of other countries who can gain our citizenship in order to to function economically and in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126625	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126626	Yes, counterpart Kliman, Croatians participated in the economic growth of some European countries. Croatians and certain areas in America have been marked with their work, it is precisely known where these strongest Croatian communities are and we simply think and think about the future of the Republic of Croatia, we must not unfortunately forget this black demographic trend in Croatia, and if we want the state to function, to be stable and strong, then you must have an economy. And to have an economy, you have to have someone to work with. I just mentioned what happened to us because of the odds, that they skipped us. We simply need to think in the future that some descendants of Croats and others for whom their employer is, and an assessment is made that we need such people, as is done with top athletes, to understand each other. Well, it's not a Pesalo Croat, but when we did an evaluation, and it could be a promoter, as a athlete he wanted to come to Croatia, we gave him his citizenship and that she had gold medals, remember from my... youth at times when Croatia was a very important promotion [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126627	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126628	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, of course, like my colleagues from HDZ, welcome this bill because I see a lot of good elements in it. These reliefs are a very positive thing. I see it as some kind of liberalisation of the process of receiving persons into Croatian citizenship, especially those of Croatian origin. So it is a very important gesture, thus sending a message that Croatia has been emancipated, that it continues the process of emancipation, that it takes care of itself, that it takes care of its interests and that it wants a modern law on Croatian citizenship. My colleague Shuker was talking about economics, and German Chancellor Erhard said that 50% of the economy is psychology. So with one move like this, we send a message, we liberalise the Law on Citizenship, we want to make it easier for people to be Croatian citizens, and that is very important on the agenda of the economy. I won't talk much about the economy now, I'll just say that, of course, we must not forget that the fundamental task of making changes in Croatia itself is to change structures in Croatia itself, if we want to turn Croatia into an advanced society, competitive society, creative society, education, justice, state administration, local and regional self-government, there we must really show that we know more effectively how to organise ourselves politically. That's the key. Of course, the liberalisation of the Law on Croatian Citizenship is part of what I said. There are a few things I'm going to point out, which I think we should think about. That's for example. when we're talking about an emigrant. We need to think about it one more time, Mr. Secretary of State, so say it, Mr. Secretary. What's an emigrant? I took a look at this definition and then I see that it says that the emigrant and the person, I quote, who moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and had no citizenship, had no former Croatian republican citizenship or ethnicity in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I consider it one narrowing down to the definition of emigrants. That previous definition, the current definition... that it's more general, more logical. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why to tell someone who has moved out of the territory of today's Republic of Croatia, means then the National Republic of Croatia and afterwards the Socialist Republic of Croatia and has no citizenship why he is not considered an emigrant. I wouldn't bureaucratize what my colleague Schucker said. I think we need to show one width and we don't need to complicate it. Also when we talk about the Republic of Croatia, we didn't have the Republic of Croatia during socialism, we had, I said the People's Republic of Croatia, and then we had, after that, the Socialist Republic, so we can talk about the predecessor of the Republic of Croatia or the predecessors of the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to avoid these ambiguities when we're already doing a law that's positive, which is encouraging and then let's be very, very precise. You also told Mr. Secretary of State that in this new bill, the laws prevent people who have given up citizenship from taking Croatian citizenship again one day. Why do you do that? If someone did it for some reason because they didn't have two more citizenships and then they gave up maybe because someone else asked him to do it in a country because they didn't do some checking and then he changed that decision when he went into retirement. Then why make it impossible for him to be our citizen again? I find it unnecessary when we go into liberalisation, then we allow him or her to be a member of our political community again. When we talk about taking away citizenship, if it turns out that someone forged the data, or if someone committed a crime against the Republic of Croatia, then we must also bear in mind that we have a constitution that clearly states that our citizen cannot be taken away from Croatian citizenship. So we have the same thing in mind, and so we can't take away anyone's citizenship if he loses any citizenship and loses his citizenship, so we have to take care of that too when we talk about this provision to take away citizenship if it turns out that the person admitted to citizenship tried to cheat. That's what we have to watch out for. So we can't let a person lose their citizenship. In that segment, I think we can work it out a little bit. What is suggested when it comes to the ceremony to organise a solemn oath to gain citizenship, I find it very positive, that's good. It is also if you want in the spirit of solutions that have been applied in the last few years and in some other countries that are considered as countries that are immigration, V. Britain, France, and now the Federal Republic of Germany, I find it very good to raise awareness and that the person who is then admitted to Croatian citizenship knows and appreciate that it has become a member of our political community. All in all, very positive with the natural need to do a little bit of work here, to be specific. And I'm going to say again what I said in the introduction, I consider it the most important gesture when it comes to the attractiveness of Croatia. We must show that we are open, that we receive people into our citizenship, that we are ready to accept people in Croatian citizenship who can use the Croatian political community, means our society, that we are open and ready for all those who want and who respect the Croatian legal order to give a chance, to make a contribution to Croatia really long-term progress, competitive society. Therefore, this law, I welcome this proposal for a law on Croatian citizenship. Everyone who has our citizenship is a Croatian, is a Croatian citizen, we must stop thinking about nationalities within Croatian citizenship in perspective. He who is a Croatian citizen is a Croatian citizen, he may have some ethnic origin that may not be Croatian but he is for us and it must be in our consciousness, especially us who bring laws here in Croatia, means in this House of Higher Education, he is a Croatian for us, a political Croat, a Croatian citizen. It must be our consciousness, to achieve this standard in the long run, and therefore, I strongly welcome and appreciate the work that you personally gave Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126629	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126630	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Kovac, I think that one thing you've been great at accepting, actually no one has talked about it, and that's why I picked up the line, and I think that you and I should do it a little bit more so to say, to step up, and that's the ceremony of the award of Croatian citizenship. ... As much as I'm allowed by my colleague Orepic, I may have the privilege of having more than three. So, with one thing that we are receiving, to whom we are giving Croatian citizenship to show that we appreciate it and on the other hand what is far more important to show that we value our homeland and that it is sacred to us and that it should be seen as such and that we also honor and acknowledge it to our homeland. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because it's simply some of the ceremonial things that traditional states have and we still have to learn because unfortunately we only exist over the last 29 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126631	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126632	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, absolutely, means it will be one contribution to building a political culture in the Republic of Croatia, it is absolutely necessary, to be able to appreciate the state in which we live, that we are members of that political community, to let the people who want to be with us in that state community know that we also appreciate them and put them in a position that they also see that they have an obligation. If they didn't get one piece of paper on which the Housewife stands, the Croatian citizen, but that's one solemn thing, that they have rights, they have obligations and of course we have expectations of them because they join us, they join us as a political community.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126633	The Republic also has a respected VP, Miljan Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126634	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Kovac, you have made a few details regarding the positive provisions of this law, the amendment of this law, and also certain constructive proposals. But what I am personally interested in, you were Minister of Foreign Affairs for some time and in the public, i.e. there was a few information in the media that certain items that were received at diplomatic consular offices for admission to Croatian citizenship were waiting for several months or years. So I'm curious to know what your opinion is about why this happened and how to solve it? Is this the problem of the lack of responsibility of officials, is it the problem of his sloppyness, unprofessionalism or is there also the dimension of those old prejudices towards Croatian emigration and relics in the humane sense of those former personnel from the former system who viewed Croatian emigrants as minor external enemies?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126635	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This way I was not only the foreign minister, I was an ambassador to a large country, it's called SR Germany and I always insisted that officials who are at the consulate be the most important because it is a picture of Croatia in the world. It's not a picture of an ambassador and I don't know anyone who has some political speeches but a consular service, a consular employee, he has to be the type of top, he has to show engagement, say good day, go ahead, not just a ha, a, b, b, b, b, answer the phone, but be polite, determine the job. But of course it was the same block in the administration because of the complexity and the law. So this law, too, I hope, will make it easier for the people in the consulates to do that job. Not only are they kind but communication between foreign affairs and internal affairs should be faster data processing, which is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126637	The next individual debate will be the respected representative God Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126638	Thank you, Mr. President. I was wondering why you put such an important item of the agenda at the end of the day in the late evening hours, and then I thought, and I want to believe that it's because of our emigration, because in these hours, our countrymen in New Zealand and Australia can watch it in the early mornings and our countrymen in North America in the late afternoon hours. So on behalf of the promoter, the State Secretary informed us that the Law on Croatian Citizenship was defined first in October of '91. years, that he then experienced several changes. However, we have also witnessed that in particular our emigrants have complained of obstructions and inertness of the administration and of the restrictions itself in the law, so such complaints have also come to us in the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This is also in the conclusions of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, from their meetings and before last year. And, of course, all of this resulted in a single good initiative and the Prime Minister who formed the task force that brought before us today these amendments and the additions of the Law on Croatian Citizenship which are therefore not only the liberalisation of Croatian citizenship but also a complementary measure of the Strategy of Demographic, Revitalisation of the Republic of Croatia. According to the information presented by the esteemed State Secretary, by December 2017, almost a million and 90 thousand people were admitted to Croatian citizenship at birth. And that's not, of course, a little bit. However, if we compare this to 3.5 million Croats, how much, according to the estimates of the relevant institutions, lives outside the Republic of Croatia, then we can see what is still the potential of our emigration in particular for obtaining Croatian citizenship and the inclusion of Croats and the world in the social and political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is clear that all of them, all of these 3.5 million, may never apply for Croatian citizenship or will not be interested, and therefore it is important to look at this law in a broader context and in the context of therefore the main immigration law and this is the Foreign Law. And I will remind, therefore, that here in this House, we have brought a amendment to the proposal of the Croatian Committee of the Republic of Croatia which says that I am paraphrasing, the Croats without Croatian citizenship and with foreign citizenship cannot be considered as a stranger to the basis of this law. So all these measures, therefore, contribute complementaryly to the inclusion of all Croats from the world into the social political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic held a session yesterday, discussed this law, heard therefore very constructive proposals to improve this law, and here are some members of the Committee who have already taken part in this debate. I'll just look back here at a few articles of this law and make some of my dilemmas and some remarks. Article 5 is replaced by the following: The law in the provisions relating to the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by the origin of a child born abroad whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth. The bill therefore increases the age limit for the registration of Croatian citizens by the age of 21, so that it would allow those persons to apply themselves to Croatian citizenship after their adulthood if their parents did not do so by 18 years. I'm asking the question here why is it about one parent, not both parents, but that's going to be here, I hope until the second reading answers, therefore, the promoter. But here comes the first dilemma and the first question. What about those descendants of Croatian citizens, who are now over 21 years old? I therefore believe that this article should also be reshaped through an additional item which would therefore be of origin to Croatian citizenship of persons born abroad whose one or both parents at the time of birth of a Croatian citizen, if, within 2 years of the entry into force of this law, they apply for Croatian citizenship. Therefore, those over 21 years of age who did not report up to 18 could apply to Croatian citizenship. Furthermore, I consider it extremely important. 3 of this law where changes are proposed in relation to the existing law and, therefore, deletes from this law conditioning the business ability of a person who has so far discriminated against a significant number of potential seekers of Croatian citizenship. Next up, Art. 5 Of course, it is also very important, which also the proponent has explained here, and which many colleagues have further potentiated there, leaving out this generational limit for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for descendants of Croatian emigrants in a straight line, hence their spouses, and allowing Croatian citizenship to be acquired in a wider circle of descendants of Croatian emigrants. And I believe there's even still room for that liberalisation, but I'm going to say that in a few words. On the other hand, the release of the obligation, the gratification of the knowledge of Croatian and Latin letters. Despite some or constitutional justice systems of the Republic of Croatia, which some colleagues have critically looked at, it is important to know that during the former state, in particular, there was no interest in studying Croatian, Croatian culture, for Croatians living abroad. Of course, this is now changed by the foundation of the Central State Office for the Croatian Republic and the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As far as art is concerned. 5, I would therefore, in particular, raise my doubts about this article, which further specify the concept of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to prescribe that the emigrant is considered a person who moved out of the Republic of Croatia before 8 October 1991. What about the descendants of Croatian emigrants who moved from Croatian historical and ethnical.../incomprehensible/..., BiH, Serbia, Montenegro in different periods of history? So does the provisions of this article, which the colleague Raguž, in his debate, indicate, put us in an unequal position, whether we share our emigration, therefore, which is known throughout this period that is behind us, especially this modern history, for the last 30 years, performs as a unique, therefore corpus. And I think that there should certainly be a different formulation that would say something to the emigrants of Croatia within the meaning of this law, the members of the Croatian people are considered here, so here I potential the emphasis of the members, who have evicted from Croatian ethnic spaces regardless of the name of the country they have moved from. And of course this can be specified through certain historical periods, whether it is the Kingdom of Croatia, Dalmatia, Slavonia, up to 18, the state of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians 18, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, 19 of 39, Banovina Croatia, NDH 41-45., the National Republic, the Socialist Republic, of course the Republic of BiH, etc. Or, of course, they will make it clear that the emigrant is considered to be a member of the Croatian people who moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and of another country that was at the time part of the state community that belonged to the Republic of Croatia. So I think, at least I understand the particulars and doubts that the promoter had about this formulation that I just said, but I think these doubts can be resolved by a clearer definition of members of the Croatian people, whether we take it from the laws of neighbouring countries, such as the Italian law which says Italian citizenship is based on the principle of origin, under which the Italian child was born from the father and mother of the Italians, or the Italians, or we have in our regulation a regulation on the exercise of the right to learn Croatian language and to grant a returnee who is told by a member of the Croatian people is a person to whom one of the parents or one of the ancestors of the 3rd or 4th hereditary.../indeceptible/... member of the Croatian people. Of course, the other articles therefore certainly define in a better way certain matter from citizenship as regards admissions, as regards layoffs, etc. And in any case, the interest of the Republic of Croatia.../incomprehensible/... Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia in the social, political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia, and in fact I will paraphrasise here, part of a discussion of an external board member, who of course did not have the opportunity to say in the Parliament, who said that even more liberal provisions of Croatian citizenship should be introduced for those seeking Croatian citizenship with the aim of housing in the Republic of Croatia. Here I'm going to say, so there's a much more liberal law. For example. Supposedly Spanish Law on Citizenship for every South American who bears the last name Ramos, Rodriguez, Fernandes, etc. It is welcomed by automation in Spanish citizenship and therefore Spain has the highest citizenship entry. In any case, I welcome the adoption of this law, of course we will reconsider it once more on the board. There are no amendments to be excluded, but we'll support him anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126639	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126640	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ljubic. Well, you said nicely, instead of having a parliamentary debate so that we have a lot of colleagues here at HS, that we have a real debate, we're kind of... to representatives of HDZ and colleagues of Orepić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad that my colleague Orepić is here, I'm glad we're here, but I wish my colleagues from the opposition were there, so we can talk normally about one elemental law for the Republic of Croatia. A law that should be interesting to everyone in Croatia, we here only talk mainly in the HDZ circle with respect of course, according to counterpart Orepić, it is bad and we must also publicly say it on another occasion to know that this is not a normal relationship to a very important law of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126641	The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126642	Thank you. Clearly, there was some irony in this introduction... that, because this is about a law that regulates, therefore, at the very least 3.5 million of our countrymen, however, this debate and this presence in the hall, today also shows... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] interest in this question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then those who actually oppose it or wonder why the Croatian diaspora votes for HDZ will be clear to them that HDZ has an interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126643	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Željka Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126644	A colleague of Ljubic, you know that the Bosnian Herzegovic emigration numbers about 2 million former BiH residents. From that in the Republic of Croatia, according to the latest data 410 thousand, Germany 160 thousand, Austria 150 thousand, USA 140 thousand and in a number of other European and overseas countries. Discussing the conditions for Croatian citizenship, we stressed the need for liberalisation, conditions for Croatian citizenship. How much Croatian citizenship, Croats living in the BiH today in the circumstances of their political position, contributes to their stability, i.e. survival in the BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126645	Dear Representative Željko Raguž, I'm sorry, Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126646	I'd like to thank my colleague Ragug. I think, therefore, in his introduction, he emphasized one important thing, very often wrestling in the BIH is declared a diaspora. You have now made it clear that there are Bosnian Croat diaspora in Croatia. But it is clear, therefore, that the beginning of Croatian independence, even long before that, through the action of our migration, the Croats from the BIH have made an immeasurable contribution, therefore, and the invigoration of the democratic change in the Republic of Croatia and the defences of the Republic of Croatia are giving... Therefore, the foreign credits from which around 3 billion euros, annually in the Republic of Croatia, come from, in various ways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, and therefore another reason, which is why we would not laugh, in no way at all, to discriminate against that part of the Croatian diaspora, which is located in Croatian emigration and in fact I believe that in cooperation with us MPs, there will be accumulation, which will avoid it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126647	Thank you. The next individual representative is the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126648	First of all, I'm glad Mr. Kovac didn't leave, and thank you for noticing my dear colleague that I'm here and I'm really here for the respect of our eviction, especially those who have gone tears, so whenever it is from this beautiful country of ours. And I ask you precisely who have left this country with tears, whenever, regardless of the time, to organise themselves as soon as possible, and especially these today as they leave, and that as soon as possible, those who brought the Republic of Croatia into this situation, who brought it into this situation and humiliated it, and especially those who at the moment collaliate with a gang like Doddok and the company, who exploit war prey in the 21st century. I'm evicted... It won't happen again, it's a lot of nice words and I agree, the door of the Republic of Croatia should be open to every emigrant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the current law, the current law that is in force, has not in one second, not in any detail, violated anyone's right. I agree that it increases and liberalises even more. But we can't go below the level of order. I'm all I'm saying in this High House and what I'm ever going to say, I'm speaking from a position of order, because I'm convinced that the Republic of Croatia is not in a crisis, but in a mess. Gentlemen, with this proposal, this is not liberalisation, this proposal generates a mess in this area. We generate mistrust in the Republic of Croatia, we generate mistrust in the institutions of this country, and I'd like to be listened to by dear emigrants. We banalise our Croatian citizenship, which we must not and do not have the right to do, precisely because of those who have left this country in tears. The emigrated Croatia is disappointed with the politics and people who brought the Republic of Croatia into this situation, they are a distraction that they are not with them today that they are not in Croatia. I agree that there are problems in the Law on residence and that they should be made more functional and that all administrative difficulties should be removed and removed, but the basic threat, that is, the main interference, these people, our people, to rotate in the Republic of Croatia, is a crime that has brought the state of Croatia into this state. The crime with which we lie to our country in electoral law, elections, processes, local elections in the Republic of Croatia, do you understand that? I call therefore on the emigrant to ignore this humiliation that is being put on them, I call for them to preserve the dignity of Croatian citizenship, when we are unable to do so, to preserve the dignity of the Croatian state in the finality and the sooner they return, the sooner they are organised and brought to the Republic of Croatia, to bring order to the Republic of Croatia, among other things and order into citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126649	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126650	Comrade Orepic, you have lived your life in BiH for a time, and you know well that Croatian political representatives in BiH have no choice but to talk, lead a dialogue, co-ordinate with those living in BiH, and it will remain that way. Only ignorance, only irresponsibility can direct the Croatian people in the wrong direction, including the emphasis on the fact that they can be collated with. I would like to hear from you, as well as from other MPs in HS, that with such ferocity, those who already select political representatives from us by denying the will of the Croatian people. In this way we will be more serious and more responsible to the Croatian people in BiH and the Republic of [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126651	The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126652	Mr. Raguž, you and your colleagues, Mr. Cović & Company, influence election processes in the Republic of Croatia by bringing people across the border to local elections in the Republic of Croatia and in the opposite direction, lying, for example, with a public notary in Stoc, that someone is absent in BiH during the vote, it is clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126653	The next replica of the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126654	.../Speaker disabled/... Orepić, I have no understanding at all, and I believe our diaspora, the sympathy for your crocodile tears that flow over the Croatian diaspora because these amendments to the electoral law that we have here are actually the proposals of the Croatian diaspora expressed through their legitimate representatives in the Croatian World Congress in the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As for your words, you declare the Croatian people BiH a gang because the Croatian people in BiH defined their policies within the Croatian National Assembly. With that policy, 95% of the elected... Croatian representatives, therefore, have no right to call my fellow BiH gang, but the Croats from BiH have never so far affected the elections in the Republic of Croatia, and even in the most close elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia in the past elections, where it has proved exactly that the victory of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic has not depended on BiH in any way, and this frustration of yours by losing, therefore, by throwing out of power, you need somewhere else to treat it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126655	The following replicas of the esteemed, excuse me, the reply of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126656	Mr. Ljubic, I am not at all frustrated and you should know this, nor have I ever called my friends from BiH a gang, I have more friends in BiH than you do, and therefore, please, I only point to a real life problem, a disorder, which is that abuse of residence in this particular case, the Institute of residence, and thus affects the results of the elections in a whole series of local self-government units when it comes to election processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126657	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Millian Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126658	Dear Vice President HS. Dear fellow Orepic, you spoke of the bill of this law, and you spoke of some other things that had nothing to do with this Law, but strangely enough, and you spoke so patheticly of how our emigrants shed tears. Our Croats in BiH shed tears over your actions while you were Minister of the Interior. Also, while you were Minister of the Interior, I didn't notice that you solved this mess and that crime, you had everything in your hands, so you could have handled it. With all due respect to your episode in the Homeland War where you were a Croatian defender and defended the Republic of Croatia, when you were involved, it was your personal matter, in your presentation, I felt like two people were talking, one person was a defender, and another person was a man who was still in JNA.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126659	Dear Representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126660	Part of something that, in the Republic of Croatia or the state of the Republic of Croatia that I wish for, called short order, does not mean the policy that you have implemented, Mr. Brkić. It is very important that you understand, it is very important that you understand that I, as a defender, is also an exceptional admirer and acquaintance of many emigrants of the Republic of Croatia, I stand firmly on the ground, I have no imperative to survive in politics and remain in politics, but I have a desire, I have the urge to every second of my activities in the House of Commons and wherever I am, to contribute to the progress of the Republic of Croatia. I deeply believe that what I'm saying and the way I'm saying it and the way I'm saying it contributes to an improvement in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126661	And the last replicas of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126662	I am truly disappointed, surprised, not disappointed, but surprised by your debate. The word for a country that has become a member of the EU, the NATO Alliance, that it is unedited, like this, is at least ridiculous. It is an insult to all those people who have worked to amend the legislation and prepared the Republic of Croatia to join the EU, it is an insult to them, among other things... from the diaspora, one big insult. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Talking so ugly about your country is inconceivable to me, and why? To prove something you can't prove, that's what you call a part of your people. So look, who first came and shoulder-to-shoulder defended Croatia in 1991? Who? Those people you've just called. You're talking about a child's allowance. He could tell me anything, anything, but it's very indicative of your statement. about agricultural incentives the other day. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126663	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126664	He never said anything about Vlaho Orepic against the Republic of Croatia, against the Republic of Croatia or the people of Croatia. Or I'll say it. I'm talking about the specific problems and the politicians that have brought the country into this state and please form a fence. In a comment. That's correct comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126665	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Zarko Katic will say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126666	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, well-respected gentlemen, although it is a late hour, but here I think this subject, this law deserves this answer to my current debate, and I think, I think that this way, we'll make the final bill better. Perhaps a little unusual, but I'll start with the last speaker, the respected Mr. Representative of Vlaha Orepic, who says that by this bill we generate a riot in the Republic of Croatia. I really didn't hear any reason or argument concerning this law to generate this law to me a mess. Mr. Representative, you are constantly talking about residence, the residence is certainly an important issue, the Law on residence that was in force during your term of office has not been changed, so if perhaps if there are reasons for change, then perhaps you should have used them, and I am now on my own behalf, but also on behalf of the ministry, I say that this Law on residence is certainly not the reason and cause of the disturbance in the elections and it certainly did not make a difference for any of the parliamentary mandates. There will also be in every country for various reasons that a small part of the reported residence does not correspond to the real situation, it should naturally be continuously brought into order, we do so, because of this government, you have done so too, and you may have done so with some greater ferociousness, but everything that is legal should be done and all our laws must be aligned with the Constitution, but I think that giving such an emphasis on only one topic is not justified and it is not the biggest problem of this country, and for this law, I say you have not made arguments why it is not good, I would like to hear some arguments and then try to fix it. In general, several MPs have said about too long waiting for a solution to obtain citizenship, in a number of cases it is true, but not in the largest number, but we also have to fix that number of people who wait longer, and every year, two of them are long periods and we intend to shorten that period. However, when someone like MP Glasovic says some are seeking bribes, it should also be documented. I refuse such a casually very serious accusation for anyone, if that person is proved absolutely to be held accountable. Mr. Boris Milosevic has said several important things, but I have to deny him in some of them, he says that persons born in the Republic of Serbia, for example, or BiH, cannot get their citizenship, while someone born in overseas countries can. Everyone, I repeat once again whose parent is a Croatian citizen can report their child to the books of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, whether a child is born in Croatia or born abroad. I was talking about numbers, the number of people who gained citizenship by naturalization, so last year, 4,000 and something. In recent years, we have been regularly received from abroad in the books of citizens for about 20 and more thousand. Twenty-five grand each. So these are children of Croatian citizens living abroad. Both in BiH and Germany and in any other country. Among them is certainly part of the people spoken of by Mr Milosevic. So people who moved to BiH and the Republic of Serbia, their children when they were born, are enrolled in citizens' books. They certainly don't forget to do that, and I don't see any problem and that anything's disabled to anyone. It is true that, in the former state, there was federal citizenship, republican citizenship, in the Republic of Croatia there were as many as 3 such, during these 45 years of the law, from 50, 65 and 77, they were quite complex, encollecting each other, and there may have been certain errors or different registrations. I mean, that number sure isn't that big, so the parents weren't so illiterate that they'd be wrong in that number. Sometimes it was, and it may have been a bigger reason that certain persons, so parents wanted their child to have some other republican citizenship and that was specifically sought, and that is, according to most of these rules that were in force in the then-Social Republic and in other then republics, they allowed parents to agree or seek entry towards residence, not according to republican citizenship. Some of them took advantage of it, and perhaps someone born in Sarajevo or Belgrade asked the parents of Croatian republican citizenship to enlist in that republican citizenship and now should not regret it, or perhaps a son or daughter should object to parents, but it is a family issue. There were talks about one or two parents when it was a question of why they could get citizenship in their home if they had one parent, and they didn't mention two. Two parents are also mentioned in the article. 4, not in art. 5. If both parents are Croatian citizens, then a child can't generally get another citizenship. There are countries, some overseas countries that, for example, allow citizenship based on birth, on the territory of that state, in this sense has made a significant turn of action by Germany a few years ago, but I would say that is one conditional citizenship. They give children who were born now in Germany citizenship, if parents are meetings, but after 18 years must be defined. If they want to keep that German citizenship, then they must demand a discharge from Croatian citizenship, now in a few years, the first such cases will have to be committed. What I was saying about Mr Milosevic's claims was also confirmed by the case law in Croatia, and he mentioned it. The talk of apartrids in Croatia, he mentions Roma, though, is mentioned by others. I am responsible for saying that in Croatia there are an extremely small number of people without citizenship We in our work, implementing the Law on Citizenship or the Law on Foreigners, yearly we determine less than 10 cases, regardless of their ethical origin, among them Roma have something more, but therefore, these are small figures. We are constantly consulting on this subject within our body, the central body of the state administration, and also with the UNHCR and next week we have one meeting with UNHCER that because in their mandate it is a matter of resolving apartrinity, but the figures that some point out as 2.5, 3,000, that is certainly not true, so much of Croatia does not live apartride that I guarantee, therefore, that figure can be measured possibly in dozens of people, but that is a question that we constantly solve from year to year. Mr Milosevic mentioned the issue of making an oath, whether as a constitutional act or not, so everyone is not a constitutional act, Croatian citizenship is also obtained by giving a solution, on that day, with that moment and signature in the delivery note, but we remain in order to give this solemn ceremony an added dignity to this act of acquisition of statehood, that is, Mr Kovac as former Croatian ambassador, of course. And I think it was very nice for him to be able to share these solutions every year, let's say, every year, or simply congratulate those people who won and gave a speech to those maybe a few dozen people who gained citizenship in the field of the embassy he ran. Mr. Bauk said... To accept this law, it is not and it is his right not to elaborate more, however, if I understand it correctly, it is mentioned that this law is croatocentric, if I have misunderstood it then I apologize to it in advance, and if I understand it well, then I claim that, this law is croatocentric as all the laws, which I believe will be passed in this Croatian Parliament, but not ethically, it also takes care of the persons of other ethnicity and of Hungary from Laslova, or the Serb from Lapca or Italian from Buje, and that is why I liked this speech by Mr Kovac, where he spoke about the political community, citizenship is a political community of people, which unites a state framework, which retains their different, ethnic, religious, political and other beliefs and that state should be guaranteed and encouraged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A few words only about this denial or layoff, again it was not well understood, therefore, the discharge is the institution that allows it to do so. 15. It explicitly states that the person who has been fired from citizenship can regain that citizenship. However, the question is whether it is constitutional or not constitutional, and here it would end up canceling someone or not, our opinion that it is constitutionally, that it is not against the Constitution, namely the article, and also in resolving the application for citizenship itself in Article. Paragraph 26 of paragraph 2 states that the Ministry of the Interior may refuse a request for acquisition or termination of citizenship although the assumptions have been fulfilled, even though the assumptions have been fulfilled, if it considers that there are reasons for interest in the Republic of Croatia, which is why the claim for acquisition or termination of citizenship should be rejected. So, it is seen whether, in addition to those security reasons, whether a person fits into a certain social context and a particular social community, such cases are extremely rare, because in our case it is unpopular to say and judge, it would be considered pre-arbitral to say that someone didn't fit in. In some countries where we want to imitate ourselves, there is and is used by such authority of the administration, about 15 years ago, was I, I was reading about the case, in the Federal Republic of Germany, that one foreign citizen, who fulfilled all the assumptions of the other, but was not rejected with his citizenship, I think he was Italian citizenship, because he was a member of the Communist party. The Communist Party in Germany is not prohibited, but was considered to be its statute and action, does not support the basic values of the German Constitution and the German social order, and such a person was denied the request for Croatian citizenship. Thank you all for your contributions, in the debate, we will consider all your proposals and I believe that we will develop an even more high-quality final proposal for the Law on Croatian Citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126667	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Friday, February 1st at 9.30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Library and Book Activities Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 431. Have a good night. Interrupt session at 21.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-31-0.u126668	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, first reading, P.Z. No. 554. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final proposal of the Law, please vote. I find that most of the vote 79 ZA, 4 abstentions and 18 votes against it have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
