ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145918	I thank you, President HS. Dear MPs, distinguished MPs, the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport and Disposal of Dangerous Waste, therefore, the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport of Dangerous Waste and its Disposal was adopted in Basel on 2 March '89. and today is the most complex international contract in the field of environmental protection, and it was created as an international response to the practice of rich countries that were late in the 1980s looking for a cheaper way to get rid of hazardous waste started exporting it to underdeveloped countries and countries in Eastern Europe. The Basel Convention came into force in '92. And right now, there are 187 signatories. The Republic of Croatia ratified this Basel Convention in May of '94. and published in the National Journal as an international contract No. The third from '94. But at the second session of the March '94 conference of signatories, a decision prohibiting the export of hazardous waste intended for disposal from OECD Member States to non-member countries of that international organisation has been adopted. Since this decision is not incorporated into the text of the Basel Convention itself, the question has been raised whether it is legally binding or not. Therefore, at the third meeting of the same conference, the signatories were proposed to formally install this decision into the text of the Basel Convention. This decision, which is called Ban Amendment, contained in that Decision, is therefore prohibited from exporting dangerous waste to and from the countries listed in Appendix 7, which are signatories of the Basel Convention, those EU members of the OECD + the State of Liechtenstein, to countries which are not listed in Appendix 7, therefore, which are outside this group of countries and that is the basic part of the amendments to this law, therefore, in this law. 2. the contents of the ban amendments have been introduced into this bill. To date, the amendment and the addition have been ratified by 95 signatories, and the Secretariat of the Balsel Convention and the international community has continuously encouraged countries that could contribute to the entry into force of the amendment and supplement to decide on this ratification. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia was the signatories of the Basel Convention at the time when the amendment and the supplement was made, however, did not ratify this very amendment or ratify the addition to this said ban amendment. On the Basel Convention itself, I will say that the Basel Convention, one as a basic act, has since, an international act lays down the supervision of cross-border traffic of hazardous waste and its disposal is prohibited from importing hazardous waste or other types of waste for the purpose of its disposal. It is also prohibited to export hazardous waste to countries which have banned imports into their territory of hazardous waste and to prohibit the export of hazardous waste and other types of waste to a country which has not prohibited the import of that waste if that country has not given written consent to such imports of waste. Namely, any signatories to the Brussels Convention, the Basel Convention, should ensure that the production of hazardous waste is, above all, possible, then the disposal of waste waste to the greatest extent possible, taken care of on its own territory. Cross-border transport of hazardous waste should be reduced to the least possible extent and what is very important, illegal cross-border trafficking by hazardous waste or other types of waste, is considered a criminal activity under the provisions of the Basel Convention. Also, in art, this is a regulated article. Four Basel Conventions. The same Convention also provides that any cross-border transport of hazardous waste or other waste shall be accompanied by appropriate documentation and that all countries involved in cross-border waste transport, as countries of destination and country of destination or country of transport of hazardous waste, shall be in agreement with this cross-border waste traffic. In the event that cross-border waste cannot be carried out under these conditions under the Basel Convention, waste shall be returned to the country of origin. That's the essence of the Basel Convention. The Ban Amendment, as I said, which is the basic part of this proposal for a law, provides that each country listed in Appendix 7, which is the signatories of the Basel Convention, which are members of the EU Member States, OECD + the countries of Liechtenstein, prohibits all cross-border traffic of hazardous waste provided for in the custody procedures in countries not listed in the list of Appendix 7. Therefore, this law confirms the amendment and addition of the Basel Convention by adding a new article. 7 preambles, new article. and these new Appendix 7 in order to make their provisions within the meaning of Article 7. 141 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and formally became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The text of the Basel Convention also adds to the text of the Preamble, which was dropped by mistake and the Law on Confirmation of Ratification in 94. Therefore, to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget, therefore, this is a proposal for a law that has very few articles. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2 the ban amendment is added and then the opportunity to correct in Article 2 is used. 3 deficiency from previous confirmation and to add a preamble that has not been installed in the previous ratification so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145919	We don't have a replica, so we're going to the committee's reporters. Does he want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, dear colleague Tomislav Liposjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145920	Dear President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. As we heard in the opening statement, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport of Dangerous Waste and Disposal, submitted to the President of the HS by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Convention was adopted in Basel in March 1989 and today represents one of the most complex international agreements in the field of environmental protection. It is precisely the practice of exporting hazardous waste from rich countries to underdeveloped countries and Eastern Europe has initiated the creation of this Convention. The Basel Convention came into force in 1992 and currently has 187 parties, and it aims to protect human health and the environment from harmful impacts arising from creation, management, cross-border traffic and the disposal of dangerous and other waste. The Republic of Croatia ratified the Basel Convention in May 1994, and entered into force in August of that year. At the second meeting of the conference of signatories in March of the same year, a decision prohibiting the export of hazardous waste intended for disposal from OECD Member States to non-member countries of that international organisation was also adopted. Since the same decision is not incorporated into the text of the Basel Convention itself, at the 3rd meeting of the 1995 Conference of signatories, it is proposed that this decision be formally incorporated into the text of the Basel Convention in the form of amendments and additions. Although the amendment and supplementation was due to take effect by January 1998 at the latest, this has not happened today. In order for the Convention itself to enter into force, it is necessary to ratify the states of the signatories from the time of the decision. As there were 90 signatories at the time, it takes ratification of at least 68 of them. To date, 66 signatories have done so in 1995. Since the Republic of Croatia is the only EU member who has not ratified the amendment and supplement so far, although it applies it since it has been incorporated into the EU provisions of Parliament and the Council on waste shipments, which, by joining the Republic of Croatia in full EU membership, has become a binding part of the legislation, there is no reason not to do so, even in fact. Following all of this, and also on the trail of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's position and the unanimous conclusion of the Assembly Committees, the HDZ Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport and Disposal of Dangerous Waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145921	We're going to another debate. The club of the representatives of the independent lists and the respected Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145922	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I welcome representatives from the ministry. Mrs. Schneider. Assistant Minister Anamari Matak, Secretary of State Mila Horvat. Of course, I welcome my colleagues and fellow MPs, or MPs. The regulation of cross-border transport of hazardous waste is indeed a very important thing because, as the promoter said in the introduction, the rich countries have been relying on for many years. companies from these countries, relying on solutions that are cheaper and would often involve exporting hazardous waste to countries real concerns about such waste, there is no and, of course, far from the eye, far from worrying, in a cheap way to solve their problems, business problems, while at the same time creating major environmental damage because dangerous waste in the environment brings huge hidden costs which we see through different effects and these effects are daily confirmed and discovered so we know that you can in animals, in the mass tissue of animals living in the far north, away from any pipe, means any toxins therefore, which are really very far from the source and this is all the consequence that these substances have been released into the environment and, of course, by transporting through the atmosphere, hydrosphere, have reached everywhere in the world today, and this is such a case, and of course, this convention is one good thing where at international level, this problem is addressed and it is going slowly and this is going to be able to keep this step forward, and the way. However, do we get the impression that here we have, our waste management system, solved it, that it's all great and wonderful? I'm afraid you might get such an impression, especially if then the opposition stands behind this proposal and in fact the situation in waste management in Croatia is actually alarming. That's not too hard of a word. It is alarming because here, we have dangerous waste and home and the question is how we solve certain categories of hazardous waste, they are defined by specific rules, but we have domestic hazardous waste, it is one that each citizen has, benefits, arises in houses, courtyards, of course, and that is also delayed along with the rest, and we know 1 to 2% of municipal waste and, in fact, waste that can be characterized as dangerous and the dangers are therefore very different properties, therefore toxicity, carcinogenicity, teratogenicity, reactivity, inflammation, explosives, therefore there are many, such substances, very important, should be separated immediately by formation and taken care of so in a special way, today we are building a society where every waste material will be a potential resource, an industry which has to be able to take over these substances and thus circulate the active substance, so it is a solution. So how do we do, what happens in Croatia? The recycling courtyards are still seen today as the mere formality of the local self-government unit most often, not always, but very often understand it as a single legal complication and they must in accordance with the law provide for a number of recycling courtyards that are intended for citizens to bring each type of waste and dangerous waste. However, I have never been able to hear from our roof house, from the ministry, and from the fund where it is said about the importance of it, where it is suggested to units of local self-government where it is necessary, some know and do it, some do it, that it is important and that it must do so. In principle, it is one negligence that is universal and unfortunately we are back to that concept of waste management from 2005 and 2007, when a waste management strategy and plan for 2007 for waste management from 2007 to 2013, in which I remind you, was envisaged that almost all communals would be collected as a mixture... So, as until then, in many others as today and to drive to the centres, the total capacity of these centres was estimated to be 1 million and 500 000 tonnes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's almost all, very little separate collection and recycling. I must say and remind that when the center receives garbage or mixed municipal waste, it can very little return as raw material or that there is almost no recycling here. In fact, it is unusual that Croatia had to adopt a law on sustainable waste management in accession negotiations, and there it set targets by 2020 of 50% recycling without infrastructure having any echo, so at national policy level, so all the infrastructure that was built from national money, which the EU of course public EU or domestic, were two centres today finished Kastijun and Marinščina, who doesn't know what it looks like and how it works, to get to know each other. So it was perhaps necessary to spend 40, 50 million euros on such centres and to see that it was wrong, that it was technologically bad, that it was conceptually wrong and that it could not be achieved there in accordance with time and that it is in line with the obligations that we have made here by law and access contract, especially in accordance with what is coming to us today. So the new European policy, the increased targets by 2030 and 2035, you have 65, 75% separate collection and recycling, depending on recycling and packaging waste, so this path goes further and the figures increase, so we are obliged to make a sustainable society, secure sustainable, where waste material will be returned to the maximum as raw materials to society. It's not possible to do it through the centers and mixing waste. I will remind then that it was only 2017 that the plan for managing waste by the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2022 and here for the first time at the state level defined what should be done, that these are recycling yards, that these are recycling centres with sorting plants and composts and that it has priority. It is also reduced to the capacity of these famous centers, so it is the Marines, which is the future Lečevica, which is that people are clear what it is, there is a defined capacity of less than or equal to 640 000 tonnes, which is 2.4 times less than the value of the 2007 plan. However, it has not been long, only 2 months, a decision has been made on the implementation of the plan where, as a little bit, it should have been clarified and the capacity of these centres has been restored again, increased to 888 000 tonnes or 41% more. What do those numbers say? So they're saying that they're back in the lead of those forces in the country that are just going for the waste to be solved through the centers and today it's incomprehensible how that in one county one such center can be declared a strategic project, so it's a project, it's a garbage-processing plant and, in fact, it's driving there far and wide, it's garbage in terms of how it's collected without... recycling yards, meaning with this home-threatening waste which is the subject and this Basel Convention is catastrophic, so also on the content of biodegradable waste which is a normal thing to separate and convert to compost which our grandparents knew and we no longer know, so biodegradable kitchen and garden waste in adequate conditions is spontaneously converted into compost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we mix it together with this home dangerous and with all recycling mainly substances, there is one horror that is called trash, especially in the summer followed by the terrible smells and believe that if the project is built it will have equally catastrophic conditions and it is a huge responsibility for those who insist on such a concept and such a solution, before they are simultaneously in Split and in the whole move, they do not plan either composting or recycling centre with a sortery that must be close, not far away, close. These materials can't be driven far. Therefore, it is also sad to conclude that, although Croatia is in the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, 475m euros are available and that these money can be spent and could be spent, it mainly stands and the only thing that such a walk is investment in centres, such as Babina Gora, as Lečevica, as I don't know Piškornica, so which I remind you are intended to process the rest so that it must be less than 40% as planned and for all of this other things you need to have sorters, separate collection, composting on which it is very poor. It's open to call in line for sorters, 350 million euros, and it's good, it wasn't 2 years ago, but it's also complicated, it's looking for all kinds of documents, it's being put into the jurisdiction of the applicant, and for the centres it's much simpler, so one big company gets a job, prepares documentation, it works for tens of millions of kunas, and it's all great, Jaspers confirms and we go ahead, we spend European money in a disastrous way. Contribution or participation of domestic industry, zero, so mostly zero, which is absurd because we have a domestic industry that could be participated, but I don't know for what reason other than clientelistic and corruptive, such conditions are imposed in competitions that our companies can't even reconcile. This is an embarrassing situation, so there is absolutely no sovereignty here if we are going to use this term that is very important, so we have European money, that is, our money is actually meant for our market and we are not able to ensure that domestic industry participates in the spending of that money, but according to the recommendation of expensive advisors, we impose conditions that can meet the first company there at least through Mura somewhere in Austria or Germany. And this is a devastating situation, the consequences will be that the money will either be used or misexploited, the consequences will be that we will not achieve the obligations that we have recorded in the accession contract in the law and we will not yet be able to be able to do more of the commitments that are coming because we should be part of civilised Europe. And of course, the consequence will be that this new branch, the green economy, the circular economy, the circular economy in which these 200, 300 000 tonnes of plastic in two cycles can be converted to the maximum possible extent as raw materials and returned to the market because I remind you, our plastic producers import a recycling from Germany and Austria, they could do it, what can we not? So what's this about? Don't we have people who know how to come up with it? We do. All we have to do is bring them to the table and listen. But it's done differently. Therefore, I am showing concern and warning that the situation in the Republic of Croatia is extremely poor in the matter of waste management. And of course, we'll support the convention as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145923	No more club representatives, so we're going to individual debates. First up, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145924	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary with his assistant. Cross-border traffic of hazardous waste. Of course, everything that promotes legislation, which is implemented in Croatian legislation, and so does this convention, I believe it contributes to the legislative framework. However, as counterpart Dobrovic said on behalf of the club, the problem is waste management in the Republic of Croatia. What does that mean? If we import dangerous waste? Where are we gonna put it? In Lečevica? The waste management center, in the middle of nowhere? Do you, I don't see in this that you said where they were going to be, what are the places that will be controlled in accordance with the regulations of disposal of hazardous waste? It is not sustainable development, it is a threat to water and our misdemeanour, and therefore it is necessary, here is because of this non-application of legislation, which we, the conventions that are positive, of course, which we are introducing into our legislation, however, in Lečevica, you will have to put down dangerous waste because you did not determine in the Republic of Croatia where with this waste. And we already know what the Mariščina Waste Management Centre is producing, for example, what is the way? Here, let my meanings in the Dalmatian Zagora, in Split, throughout Dalmatia know that the waste management centre is the same as the Mariščina Waste Management Centre. And we know what the problems are, what are the problems, even now work has been stopped because of numerous irregularities and because this waste is being delayed as well as on ordinary landfills that we now have throughout the Republic of Croatia. First of all, we need to arrange our waste management, we need to protect our waters, which is why we went, and we have already collected enough signatures that, hopefully, we will still have to sign representatives to enter the Constitution by example as in Slovenia and, of course, we have to protect our breach. Split area, the Split swimming pool is aware of what is happening with the waters, which is with Jadro, with the spring, because we refer to the Dalmatian Zagora in karst, in the hinterland, according to this nature according to the pits that are artificial... caves and caves associated with the river Jadro, Zrnvnica spring, all these springs are used by drinking water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to protect drinking water, we have to protect the breach, we have to have precise and precise here, we as Parliament's representatives already if we accept this convention, precisely and precisely defined which places are for the disposal of hazardous waste. And not to come boastfully and boast, we, all that is positive about sustainable development, conservation of environment and nature, management of waste, we have copied all the conventions, we have put everything in our legislation, all the directives, and in reality is chaos. In reality, it's chaos. I am proud to see that my lake, ours, is from where I come from Lake Peru, among the 20 highly esteemed magazine The Garden, among the 20 most beautiful lakes in Europe. Not only is it among the 20, but it's the 3rd in Europe. It's a lake between Svilia and Dinara. One of the most beautiful, largest lakes on the Cetina River, which we need to guard, not that a few hundred meters, we have a waste dump where everything and everything is delayed, and possibly this dangerous waste. Then it's no wonder how it ends in our waters, in the largest pool of drinking water, if what Peru is, then it's no wonder that the fear of all people in the area of HR, mainly in my area of harmful projects that have been pushed into that area, but I point out once again, that my heart is big when I see that Peru Lake is at the top of all criteria, water drinking, size, landscape, nature, but like us, it's safe, now imagine that we are these harmful projects that were thermoelectric, and now we have a waste disposal, if we don't get rid of it, even if we're not getting rid of the waste, so no matter what we control. And where are we gonna put it? We've got to put him somewhere. So we must primarily manage the waste of sustainable development, as counterpart Dobrovic said, we have an example of Krk in which he participated where a little less than 60% is recycled, but 60% of that waste, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, except that we are changing the legal regulations, which are acceptable, we here in the Parliament, but I call once again on the Ministry of the Environment. That it's in charge of protecting the environment, not that the people are fighting the Ministry of the Environment to preserve our nature. Once again, I express my dissatisfaction with the existing state of space, mainly in the space of k, speaking the karst area, the Dalmatian Burn, that's what I'm telling her about Zrmanja to Neretva. Where we have a number of sycamore pits that go into the river and where waste is thrown, like. in Muč, where the pit is connected to the Adriatic, where it hides, but simply in various ways, but simply in the Republic of Croatia it is not regulated. For example, to move a little bit, here's a black hill, I warned, a black hill in Biljani, I warned, I brought even this material and the European Commission sued the Republic of Croatia to the European Court and now the European Court has reached a verdict to remove the black hill and now Croatia will have to pay for the damages. And where did it put the black hill? In Ravna Kotara, in the heart of an ecologically clean natural environment where the population has been engaged and survived for centuries in agriculture, livestock, in this area you simply see the sharper when you walk the highway as if you came to the moon black hill, disaster. So we should pay the fines no matter what I warned, hold press conferences, come here, speak to the ministry, speak here, and I spoke to the secretary who is present here, solve the problem of the black hill. The same case was taken 10 years ago, then during the Youth but these all continued to be normal to delay industrial waste along the river Cetina's tributaries to trap the miners from the ferolegura factory... industrial... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from a long-war ferolegure factory, from a Split hardware store, from Sibenik,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , from all of those industrial plants that worked in that area, you didn't know... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where it's put off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we had to protest for 10 years, bring me in, lock me up, only at the end of the tough battles, I don't know how we managed to stop it at all, thanks to what the people were up against. But the ministry claimed it was right and right. That black hill and she... industrial that it is, you can literally fertilize the land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] May they spend it there in front of their cottages, be free to delay in their gardens, but they cannot put it in the karst area, in Ravne Kotara, in my Dalmatian Zagora, in the area of the river Cetina, Krka, Zrmanje and all the way to Neretva. We have to protect water, drinking water because it's our resource without which we can't live. If anyone is rich, Croatia is first in the EU and Europe is third in drinking, so per capita, by quantities of drinking water, it is our resource and we have to protect water, for this these drinking waters must enter the Constitution because of the undeveloped laws that we adopt. The introduction of some conventions, a directive in our legislation, and in reality this dangerous waste will be put off, my dear, here I am speaking to fellow citizens, parliamentary representatives,... Dalmation, will be postponed in Lečevica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'll be put off in Lečevica because there are no places for the disposal of dangerous waste, paint, arches, anything else, anything else. And if it ends up in the sphinx, all of it will come, every drop that drops down water of anything, the antifreeze from the car, the oil, every drop ends in the springs where we use the water. So let us protect the waters and manage the waste properly and amend these directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145925	We have three replicas first is a colleague of Dobrović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145926	Dear fellow Bulj, yes, you have said well, what a citizen today does not know of Rijeka, Split and many other cities doing with his fluo tube, with his livestock lamp someone, with electronics, with paints, oil, plant protection, cleaning agents, what he does with it. So to a very small extent he's looking, he's going around the recycling yard. It usually ends up in that same bucket. And then we have a case that this bucket here today is delayed and in Rijeka it's driven to so-called. The CGO Mariscino, otherwise Eco Plus runs this center and therefore in the product that occurs there is a huge amount and live and other contaminants and the problem just continues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145927	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145928	Thanks a lot, buddy. Right, everything is thrown away, i.e. In households, in economic facilities everything is thrown into the same bucket, it is delayed in the same bucket, and it ends in the same place and that story ends. And praise for waste management centres is evident what was the solution with the waste management Centro in Mariščina. We see that what people are going through in that area and it's not a waste management centre for environmental protection, it's just a garbage can. They now want to make a garbage can from Lečevica in the heart of the Dalmatian mountain, in the karst area too rich in drinking water. The ones from our drinking water, the key sources. Here's Lake Peru now said it was declared the third most beautiful source in Europe. So who gives us the right not to solve it? ... to future generations if we don't solve this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145929	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145930	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear Representative Bulj, I listened to your debate and I understand that you are very concerned about the environment, about the water, about the pollution that is happening, and it is not good. But please, except you're discussing, except you know what's going on, suggest the most efficient, best way to take care of the waste. You're saying everything is polluted, no matter how you stop it, do you have any idea? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145931	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145932	Thank you very much. So that's why we offered a solution, let's say there was a county assembly on waste management, we submitted a round management solution to the waste, and that was solved best on the island of Krk, and one of which was designed by Mr. Slaven Dobrović, and he insisted on it, but he had big problems when he was, of course, the minister of the waste mob that didn't want it to work, that we have a circular economy, that we have sustainable development, that the waste creates value and new jobs, but they want to make waste cans in the heart of Dalmatia, and we give solutions, there is well given solutions with Mr. Dobrović in the Split-Dalmatia County and Mr. Uršić who was also more concerned with this project on Krk, here, we have a man who is one of the key people on the management of waste on the island of Krk, and that's just saying, And someone's not interested. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145933	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I absolutely agree with you that water protection is a priority. It must be a priority because water is a strategic resource and very soon it will be very important, perhaps more important than oil and now it is already. However, that one rhetorical question for you, but also for all of us, when we are unable to take care of ordinary waste, so to speak, how will we be able to take care of dangerous waste? When we act so irresponsiblely with common waste, how can we be responsible for dangerous waste? Because we're late everywhere in the waste management strategy. It turns out that the cities and units of local self-government that have progressed there and how they have progressed will be punished against those who are very late. Well, look at Zagreb. As far as Zagreb is behind, it means how late it is in responsible waste management. So many cities, much smaller cities and municipalities can be a role model for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145935	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145936	So we and ordinary waste, which we consider to be ordinary, has dangerous waste that is released into nature and not controlled, let alone dangerous waste where we are now introducing our legislation, what needs to be introduced, means conventions that protect it, however in reality, waste management has come down to waste management centres, such as Mariscina and now it will happen, I always repeat that Lecevic, in the heart of Dalmatia, between Krka and Neretva, where the largest drinking pool of water, drinking water. So we already have problems because we don't have sustainable development, we don't have a circular economy, as it is on the island of Krk, I repeat. Here, colleague Dobrović is one of those who ran this project. So we have waste is money. Waste is new jobs. A circular economy, not trash cans, where, where is the biggest center, where the largest settlement is water. [[Thank you. Time.]] Therefore, we must protect our waters only by the Constitution and come out of it Protection of the breach, Water Protection Act. ... [[Intruder: Thank you, you've been clear, time.]] Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145937	Time. Time is inexorable. Let's move on with individual debates, Mr. Damjan Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145938	Minister Coric, this is my first address at HS. The problem of hazardous waste is close to me, I'm a security engineer. I have to tell you this, if I were in your position it would be very, very embarrassing and your position as minister requires you to deal with dangerous waste a little bit better. You hide the state of the country with the storage of hazardous waste, hide dumps of hazardous waste in Slunj, try to make Sisak a city that will only be a city of waste disposal throughout the county and throughout Croatia. Then, as with Mariscino, Bandic delays you dangerous mud with heavy metals on the canals from the water purifier, I did not hear you say that you had ever come forward about it. You must understand that we live in the 21st century at a time of new modern technologies, and we have a problem with the disposal of dangerous waste in Croatia. Neighbouring countries have dealt with it in a way that even at the very center of their cities, they successfully resolve the disposal of this same hazardous waste. To whom is this state of affairs in the country in the interest? Whoever gets commissions, please explain that part to me. Explain to me, tell me, how much punishment are we going to get this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145939	Let's move on. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As far as Minister Coric is here in the Parliament, it would be good to join us in the assembly because I heard that Mr. mentioned the minister, I would like to speak to him a little more often and to have an opportunity to say something of this importance to him and directly because when we talk about the waste and how important it is for our citizens, and while we are aware of the whole concept of waste management, the circular economy that is so important in all European countries, the Republic of Croatia has a lot of helmets. And when you see that we accept declarations and certain standards that apply everywhere in the world, we don't accept it, we might accept it on paper, but we don't unfortunately accept it in practice. So, we are aware of all these problems that my colleague Bulj was talking about, burdened with the fact that the Dalmatian Zagora has not solved the most basic things regarding waste storage, regarding the management of hazardous waste, but we do not have to get far away from Mark's square, to see little how things work in the city of Zagreb and to see in fact how crowded the city of Zagreb is. Not only with garbage and waste all over the city, which is very badly driven and citizens are justifiably angry at the bad organisation and waste management all over the city, but we can talk about how we have problems and the storage of medical waste, so last year we had a crisis situation in Zagreb hospitals where at one point there was no one left to store this hazardous waste and it had to be dealt with quickly. If we don't talk about this example that we just heard, which shows that some of the money in a cloudy warehouse is dumping dangerous substances near the water purifier, every few of us have some observations, and citizens are often complaining about these things, I personally went to the Sandstone and saw several illegal waste dumps, construction waste, and possible and dangerous waste that have occurred in several settlements, so we need to be completely honest and say that today in Croatia we don't have a government that is responsible for controlling what local self-government units or local self-government units do, so we don't have enough local self-government units at the level of the local self-government unit, and even with those who have financial opportunities to handle it, let's say the city of Zagreb, and then we have such wild dumps all over the city, so I could now warn them in the city of Zagreb where people are rightfully alerted, communal directors walk and I don't know what they should be where they should be, where they should be. It is also an image of the arrangement of the entire society, the entire system, the city of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. And perhaps the message is just how irrelevant it is for the government that the minister is not here, we have already talked several times about waste management, Minister Coric has never been. So I'm almost done, and I'm gonna forget what a man looks like. So he showed up last time here in the assembly, I really don't know when it was, a few years ago. ... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Water law. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So Mr. Coric showed up last week, okay, so I'm sorry, I haven't seen him, but let's do one statistic, I guarantee you, from 100 suggestions, 90% of them weren't here, and when it's such an important topic, when it comes to things that depend on de facto and the health of our fellow citizens, and I'm not telling you how economically interesting this story can be, that we don't have any mud and smelting inside that problem, so that there's not going to be any one-on-one profits and we don't know why and on the other hand there's no concrete results, this area just needs to be arranged. So we need to have clear criteria, we need to see how to climb both in the classification and in the use of raw materials after the disposal of waste at EU level, we are one of the countries that uses it the least, there are of course some units of local self-government that are good, there we always point out Međimurje, now Krk has appeared, not only around the waste, it is the whole so-called waste. smart city concept and smart island concept where more innovative solutions, the application applies so that citizens have as much as their unit of local self-government but these are still rare exceptions that unfortunately do not become rules and where we have the biggest resources, I said in the city of Zagreb, the ability to change something does not change. There are still solutions from past periods of various burn plants, large composts, recycling courtyards, it's all good, but when you look at these dumps and green islands, etc., look at what it looks like around the city of Zagreb, these are locations buried with waste that is not sorted out, often when citizens separate waste, it is reunited in one place, no one in our country unfortunately controls it and does not care about quality solving problems. As long as this is not done, neither will we have more care for the health of citizens, nor will we have more money than the raw materials that are being delayed and literally waste becomes junk, so the garbage is something that you can no longer function because it is not being separated and you simply have to take care of it in that way, but we want certain benefits for the whole society, both for the citizens and for the economy and for the Republic and for the local administration units as a whole. So on the side and what I'm about to say now, I mean, give us a real problem and generally in the Republic of Croatia is that the government that we currently have in the position, doesn't take care of the environment, and that's a hundred topics probably of importance after all these things that hang around Prime Minister Plenkovic's head, of course now was 2, 3 days most important for him to win which of the 5 most important functions in the European Commission, it has failed, now it has been welcomed by Minister Kuscevic, we see that they continue to stubbornly refuse to take responsibility for themselves and the minister and prime minister, and there we will have a really one interesting debate there, I can't wait for this debate to take responsibility in the conduct of public duty and how it is possible to generate from the position of the municipal head so great property in a few years, meaning waste, the environment, it's not even in the minds of our prime minister. So that's why the situation that we have in the units of local self-government, which is why the ministry doesn't even push local self-government units to solve these problems, to meet certain criteria Croatia has taken over by joining the EU. We're going to pay huge foams in a year that will be, only then will we feel it on the budget for 2021, as much as it's essentially been reluctant to do for the past few years to dominate the cost that our fellow citizens will eventually have to pay. I appeal once again to our ministry to move a little bit, to show interest, to protect the health of our citizens not only and in the Dalmatian Zagora, I say this is a universal problem in the Republic of Croatia, we are not even aware of how many environmental bombs there are in all Croatian cities and that ultimately a circular economy is in place and that the Croatian economy and society are ultimately benefiting from waste, and not only the cost and damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145941	Thank you, too. Mr. Dobrović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145942	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, you mentioned the example of the City of Zagreb is indeed a European waste capital. I don't know if you knew, so in the recycling yards citizens can get old furniture, it's mostly splinters, bring it to these recycling yards, but where with it. The splinter is actually a valuable raw material only to be done is to prevent it from getting wet. However, the splinter can also get messyly collected, even declared dangerous waste, expensive to pay a cooperative to take it somewhere, and what with it is likely to burn in a meadow near Zagreb. What do you think is the dominant act in the City of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145943	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145944	So I think you've already offered yourself an answer, so it's clear to all of us, here I am today coming to the Croatian Parliament seeing how it shows the same thing to organize a job in the Zagreb municipal enterprise, that in the biggest crowd of bulky waste collects a truck and jams a tape and has created a crowd of several kilometers because people of course couldn't pass, but that's one problem. But what you said is a much bigger problem, so a much bigger problem is that privates are probably under contracts, meaning with Zagreb Holding, far from the public's eyes they get very lucrative export contracts, supposed to be taking care of, there's no "z" or driving to a location, sometimes even outside Croatia, so we have such cases, and in this way it burns in the vicinity of Zagreb. So when we're not using raw materials that could be used by waste that our fellow citizens are putting off. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145945	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145946	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have well said that this law should be a tool for the responsible government to care for nature, environmental protection, citizens' health, but that the government does not do so through its behaviour and you have cited the example of Zagreb and you have well explained it. And I would remind you that another example of where local powers are allowed not to manage waste disposal according to the law and according to the licenses obtained. In Davor municipality, the dump is about a mile from the regional water supply site for 60,000 people, citizens who are gravitating the water supply site. The waste disposal has been granted to 115,000 tonnes of waste disposal, according to information I have received, 10 to 15,000 tonnes over that. I've spoken here many times, we've never gotten any information on whether anyone went into surveillance, what amounts are being brought there, is there any dangerous waste, what is the situation with the translucent waters, and are we jeopardizing citizens' health? I think we're jeopardizing And that the government does nothing to protect the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145947	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145948	This is just one case, I will mention, so as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection in the Croatian Parliament, I submitted requests to the ministry. So imagine here we are now listening to Croatian citizens, when the president of the Environment Committee in the Croatian Parliament cannot get answers, for example for Lomnica in Velika Gorica and there is also a major environmental problem. There's no need to even talk about the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, or in the Ship. So, of all these activities, nothing has been solved. Both you and Velika Gorica and Zagreb, here I was, I had a press conference from an illegal dump in Strugas on Pestnica six months ago. A man would say that the authorities would fly when they saw it, no one showed up, nothing happened. So it's a problem in the Republic of Croatia, which the competent institutions don't do their job. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145949	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, I think it is very good that you mentioned the example of Zagreb, because Zagreb would have dared to say in Croatia, leading an anti- for example how to manage, responsible to manage waste. You can see that at every step, at every step especially in the lower city where it is so-called. The green islands are actually garbage islands. Why? Too many users on one island, too little capacity of these islands, too few are empty, etc., etc. Citizens, most citizens are extremely responsible and want to sort out the waste and I am on a green island every morning that is near the apartment I use in Zagreb can see people who bring glass, fabric, paper, etc., but the problem is when it is not empty for days, days. And it's too low capacity. Finally, the ministry punishes actually those units of local self-government that have advanced in responsible waste management, and rewards those who are lagging behind and then there is Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145951	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145952	So it is not only a problem when it is not being driven for days, which is a huge problem because it is enough to drive in Zagreb, Zagreb neighborhoods Prečka, Spain, Novi Zagreb and you will see hundreds of locations where the space is intended for so-called. green islands or places where various materials are collected seem so messy and polluted and not empty to see that it has not been done for weeks, perhaps months. The bigger problem is when citizens see that they are empty, even bigger, of course, this is the problem, but the bigger problem is when citizens see that they are empty and empty again in the same truck. So they grab all sorts of different classified wastes that the citizens have sorted out and put back in the same truck. That too. We've seen countless times an example where people take their own pictures, they just can't believe it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] What's going on and why the local self-government unit doesn't solve it, and unfortunately Zagreb does. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Advantage in that case. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Maras, thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145953	Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145954	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Mr. Maras, you said several times in your statement that we have a lot of environmental bombs in the Republic of Croatia in various cities, I agree. Also to collect garbage, citizens recycle, and then city authorities do not provide it properly, as if there is not enough according to European standards of established landfills. All this stuff we're saying seems to be thick under European standards. They say European standards are expensive, but we know that the City of Zagreb has the second largest budget in the Republic of Croatia, so where does this money go if not for such important things for Croatian citizens? Is the problem with the lack of money for dumps and waste disposal by European standards or is the problem with the management of the city that spends money in a completely unsuspecting way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145955	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145956	The problem is certainly in whoever is responsible, which is the administration of the City of Zagreb, certainly, with the mixed part of incompetence and unpreparedness for the work that needs to be done and which is much simpler in one of these environments than in the middle of which has several thousand inhabitants, for example in Međimurje and spread it to, these residents are not as densely spread as they are in the City of Zagreb, but in part the reason why this city administration fits, so there are businesses worth hundreds of millions of kuna away from the eyes of citizens and city administration essentially wants, the mayor wants such a system because such a narrow circle of entrepreneurs allows in a non-transparent way, which is the worst inefficient way and dangerous to the health of citizens, earn hundreds of millions of kuna. So they're basically The problem they have to do anything about it. [[Intruder: Mr. Maras' time]] and until we change that in the City of Zagreb [[Intruder: Thank you]] Believe me, there's not gonna be any luck. [[Intruder: Maras]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145957	Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145958	I thank the Honorable Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the Basel Convention is a very valuable document on this subject, but I consider it to be the states in which the law and order are governed, and unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution is not respected, and let alone the laws, we know how it is judged in many courts and how it adheres to the law in the Republic of Croatia, so I believe that the adoption of this law with the harmonisation of the Basel Convention will unfortunately be just a dead letter on paper. In the Republic of Croatia, waste is a lucrative business, but not based on what we would all expect to be created by recycling new raw materials that will be used in further production and thus reduce that waste that ends up in garbage dumps, but because the waste trade in the Republic of Croatia is booming. And for that there's only one company that can trade there, so the city can't sell to another town waste or to the municipality, but it's always got to be through someone to get cream in that whole store. Unfortunately, there are today many cities that can't have their own disposal for various reasons, so they're forced to store waste in other people's dumps, which, of course, pays quite a lot of money, not because these cities and municipalities that sell it to others in order to earn some, some other benefit by recycling, but all of this is put on piles that are often and in vulnerable areas. I come from Kutina, in Kutina is a dump of municipal waste in the area of nature park Lonjsko polje, the waste was driven not from all over the Republic of Croatia, it is probably driven today, and today the citizens of Kutina pay not twice as much, but 130% more of the transport of waste than the year before, not for the reasons that it has accumulated this supply at the dump that Kutina has, but for reasons why the utility, and such utility companies exist in many other cities and municipalities, buy new cars, hire their party colleagues above the needs of such companies. In Kutina, machines are purchased from their party friends and the simple leadership in the town of Kutina is not responding, the director refers to it as if her dad had left it as an inheritance and is working with a company of whatever he wants, suffering citizens, the waste is piled up, it is already, the mountain is not like Jakushevac, but it certainly grows to a height. I would mention another big dump in Koprivnica-Kryzevnica County, where the same waste is turned into business, but not recycling, but in a way that the former director pays a million kuna rewards for obviously collecting waste from all other counties and depositing it in his county, and HSS's chief from Koprivnik Ivanac who ordered water flow and water quality research to water streams has been confirmed that the increased amount of heavy metals in those water streams, means, does not care about nature protection, nor about the protection of drinking water, we sell drinking water to foreigners, we allow such local sheriffs to pollute it in a way that they take care of waste in an inadequate way. With all this waste trade going on in the Republic of Croatia, there's that dangerous waste and radioactive waste. In Sisak-Moslavina County, where I come from, the first attempt was to deposit it on Moslavina Gora, so it didn't pass, and now that information about Trgovska Gora is going to be in the space, the second one won't. Unfortunately, we have a mayor who is a member of HDZ who will do everything he is told by those who want to take care of it in a very cheap and invisible way, and Trska Gora is suitable for that because in a rarely populated area along the border and can simply do a lot of things there that will not be seen in the eyes of an ordinary man. Unfortunately, I'm also convinced that there are many dumps we don't know about, and we'll probably never know where radioactive waste is buried and some other dangerous waste, like some former mines, dig up. I return to what I said at the beginning, as I said in the Republic of Croatia, that laws are not respected and no one is responsible for these manifestations and for making a great material benefit to the destruction of nature and the life of essential resources such as water in the Republic of Croatia. So I think we need to deal more with these issues, the technologies of care, processing, recycling and the processing of waste in the world, there are more of them, some of them better, some of them worse, but no technology is obviously good for the Republic and no model because in the Republic of Croatia, those who are powerful and who benefit materially from this are not responding to any regulated waste management system, because in that they can't catch fish because the fish are best caught in cloudy water and therefore, in Croatia, the cloudy water remains and will continue to be long, and the Republic of Paradise on earth will slowly turn into a waste haven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145959	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145960	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaović, you've noticed this perfectly well, you've noticed that you've made an excellent observation about this, about the riot that is ruling in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, here's the secretary of state who's been listening to all this, and unfortunately there's nothing he can do, so he's simply in that HDZ mill, one tiny wheel that can't do anything, and that's why it would be good for the minister here to listen to all these arguments and finally move towards the disposal of something in the Republic. Here, that's what I would have concluded as a taste of all these discussions, of course I hope it would reach his ears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145961	Mr. Lenart's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145962	My colleague Maras, well, I agree that the minister should be, and perhaps not given how much Minister Ćorić boasts and how arrogant he treats MPs, then we better not even look at him here, and I think the Secretary of State will tell him everything we said today or he will see from the video, so he can continue to boast about us all. The minister doesn't do his job, he plays some fake size in the Republic of Croatia, and his waste problems are piling up, and that's a fact, people who pick cream on it, the brother will still, maybe he has something there, but the country's waste mess is still going on today, and it's probably going to last for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145963	Next individual debate, Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145964	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. So here's something I want to say about these amendments and additions to the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport of Dangerous Waste, because the theme of the Convention is the amendment and the addition of the same adopted back in '89, ratified in the Republic of '94, but through the amendments and additions the same, they haven't been ratified, and now we're doing it through these amendments and additions to the law which is one of the last ones, I think, the state that didn't, and the EU and we've heard the waste, as soon as we've heard the waste, it doesn't matter what we're discussing anymore because the waste is quite as broad as the subject of everything, and at least what the law is, so everyone in their experience certainly has what to say here because the fact is that we's been waste for years, not just years, but a decade, but a decade, as a matter of interest because... certain tasks as a state, but of course not only the government as a government but also all the members of the state, from local self-government with their municipal enterprises, so the county with its centers, of course, the City of Zagreb as an independent whole with the status of the county, and then the Government with its own acts, from plans, and laws, and all the more so we heard here that in fact it was only the minister and government and that down on the ground it really is all right and it shouldn't be anyone's fault, from the chiefs, the directors, these directors or the directors of the centres that can't be built, so until I know who everyone participates in it and, of course, everyone looks at who would be more guilty to him. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say the Zagreb MPs blame them for Milan Bandic, let's say I'm going to tell my mayor, he's also guilty of something because we've got a finished waste management centre that's owned by the county, they've made it and we hear it every few days stink, it's no good, and now we're supposed to be dealing with the issue of waste here so I'm talking all the time about Mayor Komadini and how he solved that center. He probably listened to some governments before, so they all went into some kind of program, and they all tried to do something together, and maybe they figured it out after the 10th year. that something is not right and now needs to fix it, of course, but simply say it's Plenkovic, it's Coric or someone else's fault, and everyone down there has done everything, it's not true, and there everyone needs to go from themselves and from their own role to look at what he did wrong to do something. We heard the former minister who brought the waste management plan and he's okay with it, and he proposed it, and the government brought it, so we have all sorts of topics that we could talk about because if you suggested a bad plan to them as a minister, then we're all bad down there, but I don't really believe that that's how it is, and if we all agreed to politicize and say something wrong, then they'd lie to themselves and lie to themselves because they're showing some information completely different, so we still have to be a little honest with ourselves and say that each of us has some roles, the MPs are there to discuss the laws, they're the head of municipal societies to ensure that the waste is taken care of in accordance with the law. Is there a problem? Of course there are, and there have always been, just as we used to have a very simple system, we had a communal society that had one vehicle and a couple of employees who picked it up nicely in one place and emptied it somewhere, and we said it worked out well for 50, 60 years. And then it would cover a little with some kind of land, etc. and these things are i.e. waste or that large amount of waste only grew from year to year on individual dumps and nobody cared about it except those who were near these waste dumps and when they grew to a certain height then we said enough is enough, now we need to resuscitate and find new models. The state has tried to offer them there since the end of 2000 in various ways. We've been given assignments to see how everything we used to run in one truck, try to sort out some of it and send it to the industry to get something through the industry and back, and there are many attempts over the years to make it happen. Are we good here? We didn't. We're not in some segments, but in some we are, and we can't say that paper today or cardboard can't be taken good care of, we can charge, sell, take care of, and recover. We can do glass, we can metal, we can do something, but we can't say plastic, we have a problem with plastics, and the management plan says that when you throw in your trash can, there's at least 20% of it, now that we've singled out that 20%, we have a problem that nobody wants to take plastics and now we've got a mess at the dump. Why? Because we don't have the last one who wants to rework it, recover it and pay someone for it when you bring it to his yard, there's some plastic packaging manufacturers, but it's not going well. We're having trouble with mixed municipal waste, which is why we've been assigned to drive it to the waste management center. Who's driving? He drives the Istrian County and drives the Primorje-Gorski County and I don't know if there are any more counties up there in Međimurje or somewhere, if they're driving, and everyone else said, and there's a county by me scheduled, yes 10. are unable to extract building documentation to build a waste management centre, 10 or more years so we can't solve property relations. Who gets hurt here? Then everyone gets hurt indirectly, and local leaders because they can't apply the law and they don't have anywhere to go, they get hurt and the government has to suffer criticism that it's guilty because we don't have those centers. I've also recently asked all the directors of those who haven't made the documentation, which you've been waiting for for for 10 years, there's a company and a company owned by a single county and haven't done anything. He says we have some particles we don't know how we're going to rule them out or how we're going to solve them, and in fact, best not to do anything, because when you're not doing anything, then you have that cheapest way of taking care of them for 50 years, throw it all away somewhere, or put it on a pile or some pile, and then it's settled. What's the problem? The ones who were first. We in the Primorje-Goran County have built a centre, closed all the dumps and now we all drive to the Mariščina Waste Management Centre, we get there, there's a riot because that the centre doesn't work, it's not good technology and we're just all in a bigger problem, so I don't see that problem of the government, the government every once in a while trying to see what can be solved there or change anything. The government passed laws or proposed them, and HS adopted, as well as a waste management plan, and we have a duty to stick to it. See how many local self-governments haven't done that basic thing at all, the waste management plan for their community, they don't care. Why should the government be guilty or a minister, he was assigned. Price list, where are the prices? Some have made them and done their job, and some have not, and now we're in conflict over why some have to, and someone doesn't really want to handle these things. I even saw in the plan that there was one municipality that didn't even take care of the waste, if I read it correctly, in the Republic of Croatia. So what do they do with their junk? So we've got different actions and they'd put everything on their backs, I don't know, the minister who did his job. He also sent this law that has nothing to do with what we're talking about. There's, uh, dangerous waste because we're seeing it as a waste that's probably coming in. We're in that part of radioactive waste, and I think that's what thinking is, so everybody's talking about it. There are 10 categories in hazardous waste. From construction waste, I don't know asbestos to oil, oil and everything else, tires, batteries, batteries, etc. And these amounts are in RH 130 thousand tonnes, 2015. Are we doing it right? Did we do something? Yeah, it says that somewhere 20 percent and we take it out to get someone to use it and make themselves some useful raw material. But I'm not in favor of just accusing only the Minister and the Government, there are also problems, and I'm sure they should be dealt with, especially about the pricers that have come up but we have more problems in the field where we have a desire not to move anything, with certain leaders because it's the easiest thing they've done for decades. And that's the cheapest. We had to raise waste prices because we have a new cost, we drive waste from waste to land and it costs and it's facts. And that's what we agreed it should be like, and that's what the former minister wrote to us that it has to be. Now, we all see after a while that maybe there are other solutions. If we're going to apply them in the period until 2023, '25, it's up to us to talk about it. But to say that nothing is right or that we are the same as in 2010 is not true. But if the shifts were weak or if they were going a little bit, we could say that. Because there's a problem. And the system isn't easy to establish especially when we're talking about the siege.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145965	Thank you. The first replica has Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145966	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, let's be completely open here and admit that the situation is not good. And who's responsible? So in your entire debate, you transferred responsibility to the mayors of the municipalities or mayors. So I guess why do we need the state? What do we need a Secretary of State, Minister, if they're responsible? Let's do it then, transfer the responsibility, abolish the government, the ministry and transfer the responsibility to all units of local self-government. Well, of course the government is responsible, if the situation is not good, if people run them to Croatia, if waste is accumulated everywhere, if inspections don't work, if people are unhappy, so of course, the government is always responsible, so it's not, it's not Croatian fiction. So that's everywhere. Whoever has the responsibility of the citizens to manage, he's responsible if things don't work out and things don't work out in the waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145967	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145968	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, I didn't say it that way, but it couldn't be a responsibility solely to the minister and the government. And then I mentioned your mayor's piece. Because then I should say here that this crisis is to me all the problems I experience daily with the waste. So man has a dump, centrally placed by his director who needs to ensure that the system works. And it doesn't work. We have a civil rebellion that lives next to that dump that smells like every day. And he didn't provide it in terms of what he needed. Is it technology's fault, is it something else but he didn't secure it. And what's happening to us? It happens to us that we have problems and everyone else because our dumps are closed, we can no longer put off where we put off, we can only drive everything to Mariščina and that mixed municipal waste. Everything else we drive separately to other places that have the opportunity to take care of paper, cardboard and everything else but plastic remains a problem we have no place to take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145969	Mr. Whiteman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145970	Thank you very much. You're not exactly on the subject, Mr. Boric. You have a place to take care of plastics is just a problem that classified plastic is almost twice as expensive when you put it down in Draganić than it is mixed waste, so it's collected in one place. And it's crazy and it can't be blamed for either the mayor or the mayor, but only the one who proposes the laws. I can't be surprised your party president and the government of the Republic of Croatia is in Brussels these days, which is why he doesn't come there to Belgium to ask these colleagues and your partners how the Germans do it. And the Germans gave up technology three years ago, Mr. Secretary of State, which we are now introducing. You know that, Mr. Boric? Well, we're the craziest country in Europe. So we introduce what the Germans gave up three years ago. So why are we working? Why is the price of separated waste twice that of mixed waste? Only because someone has financial benefits. Well, we're not crazy. Not all people are crazy. And that someone who has financial benefits [[/Intruder Radin: Time Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Whitey.]] This is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister favor, and that is not the future. [[Mr. Beljak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145971	Mr. Whitey, why aren't you listening to me? Why don't you listen to me, Mr. Whitey? It's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145972	But I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145973	16, 18 And you didn't hear me, thank you very much, thank you very much. [[I didn't hear yours, I'm sorry.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Boric's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145974	Thank you very much. My colleague Beljak, I'm surprised, I don't know, in my municipality I charge only for the transportation and disposal of mixed municipal waste. Do you in Samobor charge all that's your problem? I can't believe you're charging for separate plastics, glass, paper, cardboard,... Well, that's what you just said. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That it's more expensive, that it's more expensive than that mixed municipal waste. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's how we discuss meanings. So we said that in separation we would certainly all of what we used to have in one bag when we separated that it would be different and that it would have a price. Communal societies can also recover funds if they release cardboard, glass, metal, etc. And they get back. And now you claim that you in Samobor charge everything. Well, that's a lie. But obviously everyone has a right in their own political space to say what they want, as they wish, in fact, nothing even surprises me too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145975	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please just give us an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145976	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication So what Mr. Boric is saying are incredible lies, no, really amazing lies, I can't believe it but well I'm not surprised, I'm really not surprised. What are you talking about, Mr. Boric? Well, you said you had nowhere to go with plastics. What charge? People are charged all the same, but the problem is when a utility company or a waste management company wants to dump or sell that plastic price is twice as high as mixed waste. Can you understand that or do you really not understand anything? You just understand how to lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145977	Thanks a lot, time. I'm just saying that you both actually called yourselves liars and that you both said you were lying. I would tell you, I could do two things either to make two warnings or to make a deal outside so you could see who's lying and who's not lying, I would suggest this another. ... It's not that. It's the only violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145978	On behalf of the HSS Assembly Representatives' Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break because of the unprecedented debauchery we have now experienced. So I'm told I'm lying, I'm talking one thing and Mr. Boric is talking about something else entirely. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145979	Please only if you want a break, state the reasons for the topic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145980	We need to consult on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145981	No, the agenda topics are listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145982	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145983	Not as a breach of the Rules of Procedure but as you state that you are looking for and instructing you to seek a break, that you are looking for a break to consult on this topic of the agenda, otherwise it is not possible otherwise. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145984	Well, I said we're looking for a break. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145985	Thank you very much. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145986	No, but I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145987	You have 10 minutes to 12 o'clock and 5 minutes to 12 o'clock, and explain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145988	Mr. Radin, I want to explain the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145989	No, no, sorry, you have more time to explain, you have more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145990	Give me back 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145992	Can you give me back 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145993	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145994	So, Mr. Boric really isn't in the topic, I've been mayor for 10 years, I've been fighting this waste, unfortunately for 10 years, and there really are no things we haven't done to solve this problem. And I think Samobor may have been solved in the best way in all of Croatia. What was the problem that I, and all the people in Samobor, met and exclusively the state, exclusively the state, no matter who was in power. So the problem with the state is that it does not want to regulate the waste market primarily in a way that can involve players who know how to deal with it. So one of these benefits, Mr. Boric. Who has it you need to know. Don't turn around with things, you talk, I don't know, we charge for this, especially that, we don't have to respect the law of the Republic of Croatia no matter how generous they are, because you have to have four. And we have four different bins in Samobor, which is four kinds of transportation, and unfortunately it all ends up again in a way that ultimately it costs people taxpayers and residents more than it would cost them not to sort out the waste. That's what you're responsible for, so you know it better than I do, so you're a local official. It's all to be arranged, but you don't need to, if you don't know, if Mr. Secretary of State doesn't know, so there's someone in Europe who knows, so we're part of the EU. Let's not always be the last Balkan wave, and I don't know what to say. After all, Mr. Plenkovic is very high-quote, so let the trash show that we are quoting, that Croatia knows what to do with its garbage.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145995	Mr. Dobrović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145996	I'd like a break on behalf of the MOST Club. So the topic that we're going to consult about is waste management, namely I think there's one weight going through here that waste management is actually the only thing standing at waste management centers. Mr. Boric stated in his statement that the plan from 2017 that I have brought is, now I'm criticising, not true, so in that plan we reduced the capacities of these centres, the Mariščina that you say stinks by 2.5 times and put in the first plan of sorting and composting, that is what Mr. Beljak is necessary because separate collection of waste without sortery is like a car without wheels. And so we're surprised why it took two years to open a public invitation to finance the sortery and that they're pretty complicated. I don't know if you've predicted a workshop for local self-government units because of course cities and municipalities are responsible for the system but the state is there to help and even there's money. This way 475m euros will remain unused. And the only one who works in this country is this lobby that builds those same centers of Mariščina. Babina Gora is working, here's the lens, so we're going, we're going straight to hell. We'll spend money, we'll pay expensive consultants. So recently, the director of a centre in Slavonia praised that he had received 16 million kunas for designing. So give my men four more, and with this money we shall build both the sortery and the compost for its capacity. And he'll be designing for 16 million. You know who's gonna spend it? It's going to be the first foreign company and the subcontractors, and, of course, that's where everyone who's close to that cash register will be detested.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145997	Thank you. Mr. Maras asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145998	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I would like to request a recess on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to consult on this subject, which is clearly much wider and shows that Croatia is not functioning. At these moments, we learn that the government's session has been postponed. So we have drama in the Republic of Croatia de facto most of them are gone. HZD defends Kuštević, how can we discuss this law? The HDZ defends Kushevic and does not accept his responsibility for being rich in the period while he served as minister, pardoning the municipality of Nerezic, while the HNS coalition partner on the other hand is seeking his resignation. There is no majority in the Republic of Croatia. What are we discussing here? So we do not have the possibility of normal functioning in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately neither in the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u145999	But come back, come back to the law, you can only ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146000	So it's impossible, we have to consult on the Basel Convention, we must consult on the Bssel Convention and discuss how we will continue to participate in this after the information we have received that a cabinet session has been postponed at the moment because obviously in Croatia we have a crisis of government, we have a situation that is inadmissible, decisions cannot be made. [[Intruder Radin: That's right, that's right.]] The government and HDZ do not accept the moral responsibility that all citizens see in the Republic of Croatia that Kuščević should have already been former minister, Plenkovic, obviously defends him until the last time, the HNS asks him to leave and at this point there is almost no need to participate and propose anything on behalf of the Government when most are gone. So at this point, Croatian citizens must know that a cabinet session has been postponed due to the crisis of the government and Mr Kuštević. Mr Kuščević has caused the Croatian government to fail at this time and there is no need to discuss this at all. Nor about... [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146001	Please, sit down. Time. Please. Time. [[Don't be alarmed, Mr. Vice President. /]] But you're looking for consultations for the final proposal of the Law on... The break is up to 12 and 10. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146002	Thank you very much. It's 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146003	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] Now I'm gonna call the MPs looking for a replica, if they're not in there, then they're not in there, and it's 12 and 11 minutes. Mr. Dobrović. He's not in there, Mr. Bull, he's not in there. Let's move on. Now, Mr. Miro Bulj will speak finally in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, he's gone. Let's move on, we said exactly when the break, by 12 and 10, is now 12 and 11 minutes. I'm sorry. And does the legislator want to take the floor? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146004	I would like to thank the honourable MPs and the MPs. I thank you for your understanding and support that this law completes, or ratified, a convention in its full scope. So with this ban amendment and the preamble. The debate was a very interesting, very broad topic and I would not comment on going outside the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146005	Thank you. Okay, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the conditions, thank you very much for the content debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146006	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport of Dangerous Waste and its Disposal, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 652, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, debate concluded. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. I find that, unanimously, 110 votes are in favour, the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport of Dangerous Waste and its Disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146007	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on counterfeiting of pharmaceutical products and similar criminal acts involving threats to public health, second reading, P.Z. No. 655; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. The 207th Rules of Procedure of the HS. That Article provides that the laws which are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are to be approved by international contracts and that those laws are to be adopted in a single reading rule. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Does the motionary's representative, State Secretary, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic want to take the floor? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146008	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Parliament's remaining MPs. Therefore, for the Final Proposal of the Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the counterfeiting of pharmaceutical products and similar criminal acts involving threats to public health, we can say that this is a legal proposal that provides a clear basis for international cooperation between health and legislative institutions in the fight against counterfeiting of medicinal products and medicinal products. It shall also provide the basis for national and international cooperation between the competent authorities of health, police and customs on a national and international basis and shall lay down measures to prevent criminal offences by including the private sector and the effective processing of the culprits and the protection of victims and witnesses. When laying down its instrument of ratification with depositaries at the Convention, the Republic of Croatia will notify the reserve in accordance with Article. 10 laying down rules on jurisdiction for the prosecution of criminal offences established by the Convention. Since the rules on jurisdiction in the part relating to the persecution of its own nationals and persons resident in its territory in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia are different from those prescribed only by the Convention, the need for those provisions is indicated by the reserve. In this way, equality is achieved in the conduct of the law enforcement body of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the criminal acts that are being prosecuted, given that the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia and the rules on jurisdiction therein will apply. The reserve formulation is general enough to cover possible changes to the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia, which also contributes to legal certainty in the future. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146009	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146010	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. My question is to keep the citizens safe. Have any counterfeit drugs been reported in Croatia so far? Did you find a counterfeit drug? And second question, when will the rule of online pharmacies be passed in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146011	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146012	As far as I know, we haven't had a report on the counterfeiting of drugs in the Republic of Croatia and online is a question that must be regulated by law because I don't think we can even establish it differently as a way and custom of regular business.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146013	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to the club debate first, I'm opening a debate, of course, Mr. Ivan Kirin in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146014	... Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] The final proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on counterfeit pharmaceutical products and similar criminal acts involving threats to public health is set out in Article 140(1). The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Oocludation of the State and the objective that law-making wants to achieve. The Republic of Croatia adopted the objectives of the Council of Europe on 6 November 1996 and agreed with the international organisation to meet the objectives of the Council of Europe, including greater unity and cooperation between Member States. On 28 October 2011, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers adopted the Convention on the Forgeries of Pharmaceutical Products and Similar Penalties, which include threats to public health, which for the first time at international level for the counterfeiting of medicinal products and medical products, as well as their production and placing on the market without the necessary approval or compliance with safety requirements, as criminal offences. To date, the Convention has been signed by 14 countries of which 12 Member States of the Council of Europe and has ratified 15 countries of which 12 are again the Member States of the Council of Europe. The Convention is the first international criminal law instrument which obliges the Member States of the Council of Europe to criminalise the production of counterfeit medicinal products and medicinal products, supply and marketing of counterfeit medicinal products and medicinal products, counterfeiting documents, production, supply and marketing of medicinal products and medicinal products without the necessary authorisation or compliance with the requirements. The Convention offers an effective platform for countries around the world in identifying possible solutions, exchanging good practice and at all increasing the effectiveness of their efforts to control this phenomenon and ultimately better and more effective protection of patients from counterfeit medicines. The counterfeiting of medicinal products and medicinal products and similar criminal offences must be criminalised because of the risks posed by public health risks. Treatment of the disease is delayed due to ineffectiveness of counterfeit medicines and illegal products and appropriate treatment can be shown to be useless as it is too late. Forged drugs and similar criminal acts are silent killers because patients can die from an untreated disease as a result of ineffective treatment, basic issues proposed by law. In view of the content of the Convention, it is assessed to be useful to become its party as it provides a clear legal basis for international cooperation between health and legislative institutions in the fight against counterfeiting of medicinal products and medicinal products. The Convention also sets out a framework for national and international cooperation between the competent authorities of health, police and customs at national and international level for the prevention of criminal offences by including the private sector and the effective processing of the culprits and the protection of victims and witnesses. The counterfeiting of medicinal products and medical products and similar criminal acts are international offences that cross the borders and jurisdictions of certain countries, therefore an international binding public health contract is necessary. On 23 July 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate procedures for the conclusion of the Convention. The Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia, before the Council of Europe, signed the Convention on 3 September 2015. When laying down its instrument of ratification with depositaries, the Republic of Croatia will notify the reserve to the Convention in accordance with Article 10(4) of the Convention. Article 10 of the Convention lays down rules on jurisdiction to prosecute criminal offences established by the Convention. Since the rules on jurisdiction in the act concerning the persecution of its own nationals and persons resident in its territory in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia are different from those prescribed by the Convention itself, the need to declare those provisions to the reserve shall be indicated. By declaration of the reserve in paragraph 1. subst. d and Article 2(2) The 10th Convention will achieve uniformity in the conduct of the law enforcement body of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the criminal acts that are being prosecuted, as the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia and the rules on jurisdiction will apply. The reserve formulation is general enough to cover possible amendments to the RS criminal legislation in the future, which contributes to legal certainty. The assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The law confirming international agreements, the basis for the adoption of this law, is in Article. 207 The Rules of Procedure of the HS under which laws confirming international contracts under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are adopted as a rule in a single reading, and the adoption procedure is initiated by the submission of a final proposal for a law on the approval of an international contract. Of course, the HDZ Club will support this law. Therefore, all citizens must know that the adoption of this law, or the raise of hands for this law, is a concern for them and their health, i.e. against the treatment of our citizens with counterfeit drugs and medical products. All those who follow the debates in HS through the far-sighted line, it is clear that there is no party, but that it is the citizens' interest. Thank you for your attention and may the good Lord protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146015	Thanks for the message. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146016	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues, immediately at the beginning, will clearly support the SDP Club's Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on counterfeiting pharmaceutical products and similar criminal acts involving threats to public health. Here we have four-year cycles, the convention was passed in 2011, we started the accession procedure in 2015, and HS passed the law in 2019. This is important for the simple reason that counterfeit drugs are a significant problem. Faked medicinal products are products that are mislabelled for fraud in view of their identity or origin, may contain the correct or wrong ingredients, be free of active substances or contain the wrong quantities of active substances and be in the wrong or forged packaging. The problem of counterfeit drugs is a major increase worldwide with more and more counterfeiting drugs, such as anti-tumour, antiviral medicines. The problem of counterfeit drugs has been recognised in the EU and the basis of previous experiences has also been adopted in 2011 with a thorough development of mechanisms to combat counterfeit drugs in the legal distribution chain of EU countries. In our case, this process is particularly controlled by the Croatian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, which continuously cooperates with all Croatian and European competent institutions in order to prevent the trafficking of counterfeit medicines and medicinal products and improve the level of protection of patients and users of medicines in the Republic of Croatia. For the citizens who make us, it's important that they hear this information so they don't get drugs that haven't been checked, and it's important that they know that there's a system that keeps them from such drugs. According to the World Health Organization's latest surveys, about 50% of the drugs sold via websites are estimated to be falsified. That is why HALMED also appealed to Croatian citizens not to buy and use medicines from the illegal supply chain because such products are not checked or sure about use. Citizens must always be aware that they are putting their health at high risk and therefore entrust their health to their doctors and pharmacists. The presence of counterfeit drugs in recent years has been on the rise worldwide. Trade in counterfeit drugs today represents more than 10% of global drug trafficking, mainly in Africa and Asia. It is also important to say that because of our citizens traveling to all those parts of the world. The World Health Organization data show that in developed countries the most counterfeit medicines to improve lifestyles, such as erectile dysfunction medicines, obesity medicines, intellectual stimulants, corticosteroids, antihistamines, while in developing countries, the most counterfeit medicines for the treatment of life-threatening diseases, antibiotics, oncological medicines, analgesics, cardiovascular medicines, antivirotics, antimalarics, which only further confirms the importance of the caution of our citizens travelling around the world. Here are some historical examples of the danger. In Nigeria, in 1995, 50,000 people were vaccinated with a counterfeit meningitis vaccine, following which 2,500 people died. About 190 children died in Nigeria, Haiti, and India for a period of 10 years because they were found in counterfeit cough syrups instead of propyl glycol, antifreeze of ethylene glycol. Therefore, while the competent institutions are working intensively to combat the emergence of counterfeit drugs and to raise awareness of citizens, which is what our debate today is about, so raising the public's worlds on the dangers posed by the purchase of medicines from an illegal distribution chain, it is a global problem of great proportions that are difficult to deal with. As a result, our decision today also certainly contributes to reducing the risk of counterfeit drugs, and I call on citizens to report immediately to HALMED or to the nearest pharmacy in case of any suspicion, by email or telephone. What I would certainly like to point out once again is that the EU has, in particular, adopted a Declaration on a common logo for internet pharmacies in the field of the EU in order to provide citizens with medicines on the internet. Unfortunately, I don't have color, but this is what a common logo looks like, so all citizens who buy medicines online need to see a logo like this, it's green with a national flag, and if there's no such logo, let them not buy drugs because those drugs are not safe. Clicking on this logo will also open a website of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in Croatia where they will be able to check whether the pharmacists who sell safe medicines are authorised to sell medicines to patients who can get them. Of course, it should always be kept in mind that they cannot get medicines that are issued only on a prescription, they should always buy it only in conversation and collaboration with their doctor or pharmacist. Thank you very much. And I hope that this debate will contribute to raising citizens' awareness of the importance of cooperating and trusting only health care professionals, particularly doctors, pharmacists, nurses, and not some kind of charlatan whose ads can be found every day in popular domestic magazines.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146017	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Jovanovic, you're on the floor for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146018	Thank you very much. Well, I thought it would take longer discussion, so I saved some time for another important segment that Croatian citizens need to know, which is that Croatia as well as all EU members have begun to implement a project called drug serialisation. So it's an authentication check for prescription drugs that prevents counterfeit drugs from being issued through a legal supply chain. So there was the possibility that in a pharmacy in Croatia, a hospital would end up with a counterfeit drug. That's not possible anymore. Therefore, thanks to both the pharmaceutical industry and the European Commission, decisions have been made on the serialisation of medicinal products that control the medicinal product from the moment of its production to the arrival of the hospital department until arrival in the pharmacy. So by clicking once every magistrate in his pharmacy checks whether it's an authentic drug and in this way we're actually protecting our citizens because I'm going to repeat every other drug bought over the Internet is forged, millions of people a year are colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens who follow this die from fake drugs in the world. 10% of all medicines are falsified, in developing countries up to 30% of medicines. So dear citizens do not buy various ads, check whether Internet advertisers, Internet pharmacists have a logo and always contact your doctor and pharmacist if you want to save your health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146019	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. ... Okay, I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146020	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the counterfeiting of pharmaceutical products and similar criminal acts involving threats to public health, second reading, P.Z. No. In 655, the applicant is the Government, and the debate is concluded and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. I find that, unanimously, 110 votes have been passed, the Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on counterfeiting pharmaceutical products and similar criminal acts involving threats to public health.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146021	Report on the work of the Advocate-General for Gender Equality for 2018: Advocate-General for Gender Equality, Advocate-General for Gender Equality, pursuant to Article 22. Gender equality laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality and the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? We have the Advocate General for Gender Equality Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146022	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Let me present to you a report on the work of the Ombudsman institution for 2018, which sets out the cross-section of all activities that we have done during 2018, which points to certain trends related to gender equality, which include several discriminatory grounds, discrimination on the basis of gender, family status, motherhood, sexual orientation, gender identity, and in the areas of family employment, political participation, media environment and education systems. During the reporting year, there were slightly more than 1500 items, cca. In recent years, this data and statistics have been very similar between 1500 and 2000 subjects. The most frequently filed complaints are filed from the field of labour and employment of social security and pension and health care systems, which account for 44%. Then comes the area of family, domestic violence that makes 1/3 complaints and afterwards complaints about other areas such as public information, media, administration, justice and health care. The complaints continue mainly on sexual discrimination over 83% of the cases, mostly on women, and most often on discrimination against women more than 2/3 of complaints refer to women while the share of men is around 28% and is slightly reduced to the previous 2017. We as an institution every year if we find that in certain cases there is a criminal offence or offence we seek to initiate criminal proceedings and launch criminal charges against the competent state attorney's office, we have done this in 8 cases, or it has been three cases of misdemeanour. We were also involved in court proceedings. The percentage of cases in which the defence institution's decisions are fully respected has increased. In 2018, it is 92%. Otherwise, this percentage of respect, warnings and recommendations has ranged from 84% to 92% since 2016. In 2018, the Ombudsman institution was extremely fruitful because we carried out 3 European projects in that year, together with the 4th project launched nearly 2 million euros 5 years ago, and I must say that this is a great success for an institution of only 11 employees. Statistics show that for many years we have faced the highest number of complaints of women for discriminatory treatment in all segments of society and that makes 2/3 of all complaints. For this reason, the most common thing in solving problems and recommendations that women in society face today is discrimination based on sex, motherhood, family status and in their social, public or private sphere. As I said, the field of work, employment, social security makes the biggest share, most complain women, which is not surprising because women today make up most of the unemployed, almost 56%. Most of the underpaid sectors, most as victims of sexual harassment at work, are under-represented in high positions, in business decision-making, are facing a glass ceiling. Unfortunately, they don't have the same opportunities to advance, which is seen from HANFA statistics and have lower salaries, and therefore lower pensions. It is an area that through this 4th project, a European project of equal wages, equal pensions, equal rights. We believe we will raise to greater visibility at national level. As in previous reporting periods, according to our estimates, we come up with one devastating data without reporting harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace. Therefore, after the first information on what the Ombudsman institution will do after a woman reports sexual harassment at the workplace, they very often give up the investigation procedure of the Ombudsman institution. They seek or suspend the proceedings, express their fear in, for existence because they are often the only fosterers of the family, loss of work in the event of application, fear of the social affairs of the Stigma or of the uncertainty of the long-term court proceedings. In solving individual cases of discrimination and discriminatory practices on the labour market by employers, I must say that as previous years, we have established an extremely good cooperation with the state inspection because whenever people get a complaint that something happened in the workplace, they show urgency in such procedures. Here when we talk about the area of demographicism and the monitoring of trends that have been unfavourable over the past few decades, I will mention the fact from 2017 that at least children have been born in the last 100 years. We therefore suggest that the depopulation process has been affected by many regional and local spatial units. We have pointed to certain trends that reflect the inequality of women on the labour market in this way. We have proposed in our report recommendations that point to the need and introduction of measures that will encourage fathers to make maximum use of the possibility of using maternity and parental leave, which will facilitate the reintegration of women who worked on the labour market, but also the investment of additional financial resources to strengthen the institutional network of public services to parents on child care and care for older people. Some of the measures, demographic measures implemented by the Government, were observed in 2018. Through statistical data, the number of male parents' leave users increased by 73% higher compared to 2017. However, we must note that the Republic of Croatia is among EU members a country where fathers at least use maternity and parental leave for children, so we continue to point out the implementation of positive measures that will allow the reconciliation of family and business life. In the area of family relations and parental care, it is the area where fathers who are not satisfied with the CNSS decisions are the most complaining area, but also with the decisions of the courts. Mothers point to the insensitivity of professionals related to family violence that they were previously exposed to in the family or partner community. If we put it statistically in context, then we'll see that women are still in the large majority of the victims of domestic violence, in 2018 criminally reported somewhere cca. More than 10,000 people, up to 78% of men and 22% of women, and 75% of those killed are women and 25% of men. Citizens' complaints continue to refer to non-recognition of certain forms of domestic violence, double detention, violation of safeguard measures, lack of understanding of the dynamics of domestic violence, a number of victims who give up testifying against their mates have been observed since the first application or even during the course of court proceedings. I must say that when we talk about all forms of violence, that it is extremely important to prevent and well recognise prevention and take action for education and professional persons, the first persons working with victims of violence, we need to have cooperation and be a participant or part of the resolution ministries that will carry out those educations, we have a number of years of cooperation with both the military and the police, but we have since 2017, in 2018 we have conducted education with a resolution ministry related to the CZSS. What we want to stress is that the Istanbul Convention has been ratified, it has entered into force, it has set off a set of amendments to criminal laws, legislation, what I believe at this point is still unprotected, and that the victims of partner violence still do not have adequate legal protection. Regarding the rights of sexual and gender minorities, in 2018 we note an increase in the number of complaints by almost 150%. So the institution is recognised as one competent authority that will be able to establish through its examination process to protect the rights of those whose rights are being violated, what we did last year is that we asked the judicial authorities to sanction homophobic hate speech, the recommendations we sought to improve the system, collect and process data related to judicial disputes and the system of education of professional persons. On the other hand, discrimination based on gender identity, acting on complaints from citizens and citizens, we see that somehow the work of the National Health Council brought about by competent solutions to change or life in another gender identity has been established. In the last 4 years, the Council received 119 requests of which 91% were positively resolved, one person gave up while 10 cases were in the process at the end of 2018. What we managed to do in cooperation with the Resoring Ministry was one instruction that went to all educational institutions to make changes in the testimonies and diplomas after the gender change or choice of life in another birth identity. In our action as well as acting on complaints from citizens and citizens, special attention has been paid to victims of multiple discrimination in rural areas, women with disabilities, members of national minorities, victims of sexual violence in Homeland, war, damage to the crime of prostitution and victims of human trafficking, so in one place we have collected statistics and brought them into context. In the field of education there were several cases concerning gender equality issues in school textbooks and other teaching materials, it marked the 2018 follow-up to the debate on curriculative reform and the public debate on curricula drafts. What we notice and where we had to respond to complaints from both citizens and citizens is that the poor trend of reporting examples of gender stereotypes in educational and educational materials was continued. The treatment of complaints against citizens and citizens about media content, we have seen trends that we have been warning about for years, which is primarily sensationalism in reports of violence, domestic violence, the use of sex stereotypes, social networks as a source of media content, gender-based humiliations in public statements, sexisms in advertising campaigns, we have 16 public statements that we have responded to current events. I would say that in 2017, 2018, following the first application of criminal sanctions under the Law on Gender Equality after local elections, we still do not have clear statistics on the phase of local infringement proceedings. We had to collect them ourselves from political parties because the unique record of these proceedings does not have either the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia or the DIP. We believe that such application of criminal sanctions in the case of violations of political quotas has led to a number of difficulties, that such enforcement of the law is carried out in a difficult, slow, partial and above all inconsistencies and we suggest that with the next amendment of the Law on Gender Equality, that fines are replaced by the rejection of the lists, we have done some sort of analysis in world parameters, we see that in a much larger number such a model is represented than the criminal penalty. Discrimination of women in sports is present, current, we have responded to warnings against sports alliances, public statements. There is still a stereotype of athletes and athletes, especially in terms of countering stereotypes in sport as primarily cat's area. We are doing a great research, a great education with the Croatian Handball Union of Croatia where young people, handball players and handball players together with their trainers and trainers are educated on what it means to promote equality, equal respect, avoid sexual harassment by students, and by superiors to young people. As regards reproductive rights, we recommend consistent implementation of measures guaranteeing both comprehensive sexual education, ensuring women access and family planning and the overall range of services related to sexual reproductive health including modern methods of contraception, a safe legal end to pregnancy, therefore, the implementation of all those decisions and opinions of the EU Parliament and of the Council of Europe and the recommendation of the UN Anti-discrimination Committee. Finally, I would like to point out that in this report that is comprehensive on some 370 pages, we have given some 104 case descriptions, 138 recommendations that are classified in a different area, where we wanted everything we have done from the practical part on concrete cases and dealt with all the problems of citizens and citizens that they have today, regardless of what discrimination is about or about which area, which we have entered into our campaign of action where we wanted to improve and improve the achievement of the constitutional principle of gender equality. Of course, I'm open to your questions, as well as every time I answer and explain certain ambiguities if you read the summary reports. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146023	Thank you very much, ma'am. Attorney General. You have several replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146024	Your Honor's Attorney General. You've given us all this nice exposure, thank you. And do you know, and surely you know that over 20 women have been killed in the past two years by violence victims? That's the defeating data. Even though it shouldn't have happened under existing laws, I'm asking you who's to blame? Your institution, some other institution and tell us to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146025	Thank you very much. Answer me, Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146026	Of course I am aware because I founded an independent body in 2017 that observes all cases that exist in Croatia, cases of femicide, so the murder of women by those close to men. So, if someone is doing something about this matter, analyzes and works, it's certainly the institution of the Ombudsman who founded the body along with other stakeholders who can provide relevant information. This is a question that we have been pointing to in recent years, and this report in its full format has been an analysis of the last 3 years of radical cases that talk about the failures of state institutions, which are why some of the victims would be among us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146027	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146028	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. A pet. So in the city of Zagreb, we have a project called Parent-career, which, at the level of a year and approximately 300 million kuna, is given for this project, and the main decision for this project has been made by women who quit and are then in the project of raising their own child. I'm wondering if maybe you can tell what you think about it, or if you've been consulted or consulted somehow when it's decided on the project because on the one hand, it seems convenient to mothers or fathers in rare cases, but after a certain time, it's certainly going to be a big problem how to activate the labour market at all, so more when we look at the situation that we need a new workforce, and people are actually the best living gains for work. They stay at home, so one very interesting project, so I'm interested in your attitude towards it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146029	The D.A.'s office, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146030	We have expressed our view when proposing to adopt that regulation that it is a double sword which, although it is about the possibility of using fathers and mothers, will be much more affected by mothers because they will be absent from the labour market and the question is what will happen if the City of Zagreb no longer has in its future mandate or state budget enough resources to support such a project. Otherwise, this project is very similar in one part of the project Zaželi, where it is also in some way women who are long-term unemployed are activated to care for others, therefore, about older people, people with disabilities, etc., where most often The female population that appears in these contests, and if we're going to have consistency, then we have to lead... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146031	Thank you. And you'll get more opportunities. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146032	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, the attorney general. It seems to me through the report that in many places the units of local self-government are mentioned, primarily the counties with their commissions, a little less mention of cities and almost negligible municipalities. Can you tell at this point how strong this collaboration between you as an attorney general with local self-government units is, how willing they are to cooperate? You can even see from the report that not even the county has fulfilled their obligations, I am talking about safe houses and everything that they needed and in the work of gender equality committees, what is your assessment, what is really, co-operation with local self-government units, given that there are 428 municipalities, 127 cities and 20 counties, is there room for improvement and what can you do as a lawyer in this regard, how does it affect them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146033	Attorney General, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146034	I thank you for that question. We monitor the work and local communities, therefore local, regional, regional self-government through our projects and through interaction with the county committees for gender equality, which including the city of Zagreb has 21, we cooperate extremely well, but we had situations where the issue of gender equality was meant as a secular issue in the implementation of European projects we were persons non grata in individual counties or guard offices. So as long as we mean gender equality as a woman's question or as a secular question, we can't move forward. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146035	Thank you. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146036	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed attorneys with co-workers and associates. Women are engaged today in all segments, from the military, they're warriors, they're flying to the Moon, they're engaged in science and sport, but they're mothers too. In the debate on gender equality, it is noted that women are in an unequal position in relation to men, in which part, do they find work, do they earn less, do they work shorter, are they biologically limited, are they based not only traditionally but by biologically carrying out their family and demographic tasks cannot be sufficiently employed?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146037	- Mrs. Crescent. Baby, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146038	We have had 2.5 years of implementation of the European project on the coordination of family and business and all of what you have said, today's women on the labour market, given that their family obligations, given the biological possibility of being a parent mother, we have exceptional activities that have spoken about what the local community, what the employer and what the state can do in affirmative measures and that today women are in line as men but the most women because they are a great burden and great expectations right on the back of women, to be involved in all segments, both family and business life. You may have missed a part of my debate, in my speech where I said that we have made a series of recommendations and expectations both to the government and to the local community regarding the empowerment of public services, some of them in recent years, about the extension of working time, daily holidays and homelands for older people, etc., so also working with employers where motherhood today will not be treated as a major obstacle to the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146039	Thank you very much. I left you a little bit more time because he deserved an answer, a little more time, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146040	Thank you, Vice President. Ma'am. Attorney General, in health institutions in Croatia, a minority of authorised and healthcare professionals or workers performs pregnancy termination, in particular 153. This is a significantly smaller number compared to 2014 and we all have one reduction trend. What do you consider conditional and what is your opinion, how to stop this unpopular trend?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146041	- Mrs. Crescent. A pet.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146042	The right to appeal to conscience is a right that must be achieved but must not have other limitations, so to deny those who seek health care to exercise their rights, which is why we are in a great and extremely good communication with the Ministry of Health where when such cases occur where the pause is complained that the client of the woman could not exercise her right and that she had to change either her residence or the hospital, that it was not allowed to give her the right information, then the Ministry of Health reacted with a special direction towards that hospital. Unfortunately, we are witnessing the trend that these women’s rights are in some way limited since they are increasingly called for by the right of conscience. What we insist on is that one right must not exclude another right and that it must be found or legal obligation that exists under one and another right... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146043	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected lawyers and associates, we are aware of the fact that violence against women remains a burning problem in our society and the fact that from 2013 to the end of 2018, as many as 101 women were killed. Given the fact that we have also ratified the Istanbul Convention that has entered into force, I am interested in your commentary. How do you comment on the fact that in the 21st century we still have 6 counties in the Republic of Croatia that have no shelter for women and do you have any more information that the government will do on this matter, given that when we were unable to do so ourselves, that the Istanbul Convention forced us to finance and secure an adequate number of shelters for women, you may have more information than we parliamentary representatives, so please share them with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146045	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. A pet.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146046	Thank you for this question, I have raised the first question of the responsibility of the local community, which ensures from its local means the work of a counselling or shelter for victims of domestic violence. So the statistics from 2013, 2014 and the statistics we spent in 2018 are identical. So, at the local level when we sent an inquiry to 21 counties then their, their budget levels for shelters and counselling centres go less than 1%, to be precise from 0.01 to 0.08%. And that statistics during that period of five years was the same. There must be greater responsibility for the local community for the protection of citizens, citizens especially sensitisation for victims of domestic violence It's something I believe will go through... [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146047	We've got to stick to the weather. Just excuse me a little bit. Thank you. Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146048	Thank you, Vice President. In your report, you touched the work, primarily social workers in welfare centres, and you stated that no such large number of mistakes were found, I would say. That's what you've decidedly stated. On the other hand, we now have a situation where the ministry is calling these social workers at its social welfare centres in a way that introduces a new line where citizens will be able to complain, which means they may not have been able to complain so far and there is one more thing. So the ministry didn't, so there's no need to establish a line where citizens could complain about the work of maybe police officers, judicial officers. but exclusively [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the work of the Social Care Centre. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146049	Mrs. Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146050	What we point to when we do surveillance and consolidate discrimination or discriminatory practice in certain resolutions of police, hospitals, social care centres, is to ask the question of regulation of responsibilities. And the very responsibilities, therefore, of the person, of the professionals who made the failure to work. It is easiest to replace the head of a particular or police administration or welfare centre, but then it has already escalated either violence or a certain adverse effect. What we were doing with the police is we were working on the education of judges and judges working on official relations, so how do they perceive the responsibility of police officers and employees when they made certain failures? No, it seems to me that the Ministry's position is to make somewhere at that level both with centres and for social care. In any case, I support the issue of regulation itself... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146051	Thank you very much, thank you. And at the end of 91 minutes, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146052	Thank you very much. I'll comment, if you have a need, you can do the same. The fact is, the Istanbul Convention was passed, and I personally didn't vote for it, and I'm going to say my reasons. How do you comment on the example that the Daruvarac, because of what the entire public saw breaking the young girl's head from urinal, toilet, was literally morbid, that the Croatian judiciary reduced the sentence from 5 to 4 years old. I'd like your comment because you should have given it. We have brought the Istanbul Convention as if it would prove that we are something advanced. As long as the system of Croatia does not protect and in the fight against violence, the Istanbul Convention is just a pamphlet politically that is waving needlessly. Only Croatian institutions can protect violence, and this is what the judiciary and other institutions show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146053	Mrs. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146054	We mentioned the Daruvarac case as an eclectic case of the handling of judicial authorities, unfortunately I can't comment on individual cases, talk about decisions of the State's Attorney's Office or courts, but in principle we have too mild sentences. Therefore, there is no problem in increasing the range of criminal or criminal penalties, we need to raise the level because we are at the lower limit of sentenceing for criminal and criminal offences. So to raise the awareness of the judicial system that the harshest punishment is, therefore, that the limits, that the penalties be imposed towards the upper limit prescribed. Until we do, we'll have cases like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146055	Thank you very much. Do the government's representative, Madam Secretary of State Mađeric, want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146056	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, the Croatian Parliament sent an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2018 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality Act of 30 March 2019. This report shows the activities and work of the Advocate General's Office for Gender Equality during 2018 and contains all aspects related to employment and work, family, gender minorities, the risks of multiple discrimination and particularly sensitive social groups in the field of education, media, gender equality in the field of political participation, national gender equality policy activities, women and sport, reproductive health, women seeking international protection, the implementation of the UN Security Council resolution on women, peace and security and related resolutions, discrimination in the area of access and supply of goods and services, the attorney's initiatives in the field of laws and regulations, cooperation at national and international level and recommendations of the Advocate. The competent authorities have provided indications on the report in question, and on the basis of the competent, evidence of the competent authorities which have given reasons concerning certain allegations in the Report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up an opinion that you have received in its materials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146057	Thank you. Does a representative of the Committee on Gender Equality want to take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs Zeljka Josic on behalf or in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146058	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, the lawyer for gender equality and representatives of the ministry. Here is a report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2018, which contains all activities and projects in all areas related to the prevention, discrimination and violation of the principle of gender equality. During 2018, as the Ombudsman herself said, there were more than a thousand 500 cases and the largest number relates to the area of social security, social care, pension and health insurance. Of course, we can't say it's something new here. It is a trend that is identical to that of earlier years and, of course, the most complaints about sexual discrimination and the highest percentage of women. What is constantly pointed out, as well as in this report, is that the rates of activity of women and men are significantly different. Of course, the rate of work is low and only slightly higher. And this also contributes to the greater risk of women being exposed to economic poverty. Also listed is the lower rate of employment of women compared to men, so I will further state that the unemployment rate is higher for women than for men. Then the average salary for women and men is also different. For 2016, the average gross salary for a woman was 7 thousand 444 kuna and for men 8 thousand 575 kuna. Again in this report we see that traditional occupations that were current in women's professions 10 years ago remain still as women's professions. Of course, we have many more students who opt for certain scientific titles, masters, PhDs. But what I continue to worry about in this area is that these women cannot progress as well as their male colleagues. Of course, there's always that moment of motherhood where women stop at one point in their careers. So I am glad that here we have heard from the very report that today a large part of parents, so male parents, are benefiting from maternity leave. Of course, when we compare last year, it's a significantly larger number. But I often wonder if this figure is sufficient for our families and for our wives to really live in that full - time world of theirs. As employment always requires new solutions, I often fear that we will always lag behind in at least one particular form of gender imbalance. Of course, this is not only a problem of the Republic of Croatia, but it is a problem for countries in the environment as well as other European Union countries. Otherwise, on this point, the use of parental leave as regards our fathers or husbands and partners, even though we can praise them a little bit, we are still at the bottom of the European Union by using leave for children by fathers. As discussed in the debate, domestic violence is one of the burning topics that continues in Croatian society. Of course, with the most severe consequence, and that's femicide. Although we record a significant reduction in murdered women in 2018, the question is often asked, have we done all we could for these women? Also on several occasions in this assembly, the question of the accommodation of women victims of violence and children has been raised, and we know that there has been a discussion in the media on this issue and on safe houses when the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy has committed six new safe houses in the Republic of Croatia. It was often us who sometimes came in contact with victims of violence that often complained either about the police's actions or about the actions of the center. What I am really pleased about is that this report also states that significant developments have been made in the work of police in the areas of the processing of domestic violence and violence among close individuals. What is important here to emphasize is the permanent implementation of education not only of police officers, but it is now being done in welfare centres. The report also mentions women farmers and women with disabilities. So, farmers, somehow, always stay under our radar. They're almost always invisible to us. But we must stress that these are women who, compared to their husbands, do extremely difficult physical work, keep their households, among other things, are mothers. So I believe that even in some future, a little more attention will be given to this particular category. And what I am really happy about is that I noticed in the report that given the number and percentages of women with disabilities in education, employment, family formation and motherhood, there is indeed a positive trend in Croatian society, and I believe that this trend will continue. And as the Ombudsman herself said, over the past few years, more and more the subject of reproductive health has been imposed and we often talk about education. In fact, I can, I dare say that education is really important in the future for our gynecological reproductive health. If we think of only one information, which is that in the Republic of Croatia children enter sexual relations on average at 15 years of age, then you will know how important the issue of reproductive health is for our children and in the education system. And here I will not be much longer at the end of the report, what we should certainly say is that all complaints relating to discriminatory treatment towards women in all segments of society are really well highlighted, and what unfortunately is being imposed as the biggest problem in the field of work and employment is the age and motherhood that seems to be my main obstacle to women's employment and advancement. Of all the projects that have been made in the Office of the Advocates for Gender Equality, I will single out one where the Ombudsman was the holder of an EU project called "According to the Real Equality of Men and Women – Harmonisation of Professional and Family Life". The project is implemented from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2018. This project, which was conducted in both continental Croatia and Dalmatia, made it very clear how much our children learn from us, how they take on the role of parents, women's children as mothers, male children as their fathers. What was worrying were some data until then until these educations began to be conducted and these workshops, that some children felt it was normal to hit a mother or to hit a woman. This only tells us how much it is necessary to inform and educate young people, how much they need continuously through the system of education and through our family and through the media to speak what the real values of the family are and how valuable it is in fact not entirely of course in our society but at least partly equal in our families because everything we do behind our closed doors, unfortunately through this project has proved to be that our children are learning and absorbing. The HDZ Club will support this report, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146059	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dragana Jeckov, who will speak in front of the SDSS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146060	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Advocacy with co-workers, respected representatives of the ministries. I'm glad we're discussing this report today, bearing in mind that it's a good thing it happens before the summer break. As we have also heard in the 2018 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, there are a number of activities for a year in the field of promoting the constitutional principle of gender equality and in accordance with the powers and competences laid down by the Organic Law on Gender Equality. Surely, the specificity of this period is the implementation of two EU projects, which are the institution of the Ombudsman for gender equality, which speak of the real equality of men and women and the creation of effective protection for the fight against violence against women. These are as we have had the opportunity to hear, but it is not a waste of time to repeat, two very important European projects towards real equality between men and women, the coordination of professional and family life building more effective protection of changes in the system to combat violence against women. On this I congratulate you, I think we're going to get exact indicators that will in some sense direct our work to power. Promoting gender equality and strengthening the protection of women and men from discrimination especially from sex, marital and family status including motherhood, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression is the most important priority of society and I am glad that the Ombudsman not only follows the ban on women's unfavorable treatment and discrimination, especially during pregnancy and motherhood, as well as the protection of women on the labour market than we had the opportunity to hear, openly speak up and warn. As we had the opportunity to hear, it was a total of 1576 cases, complaints still refer to sexual discrimination, and in these numbers, the largest number is women, so 71.4% while the share of men is 27.7%, I was always interested in what men are complaining about, and I'm really going to deal with it. What I am particularly pleased is that last year it ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence. The Convention has enabled the start of work to significantly improve the legislative framework and practice in curbing domestic violence towards women. With this in mind, it is important for me that the Ombudsman, that she was fully engaged last year and held a whole series of education, training, workshops and lectures in the area of family and legal protection to the competent institutions. In her report as well as so far, the lawyer has repeatedly warned the public and all the competent authorities and institutions that violence against women, domestic violence and partner violence is not a private matter but a social and public problem. It is also noted that there are indicators that say victims have less and less confidence in institutions and that various forms of violence against women are moving from criminal to criminal sphere and that is what is moving and what is good. When it comes to criminal acts of violence in the last 3 years, there has been a rise in victims and perpetrators and crimes committed to close persons by about 20%. Statistics are devastating because domestic violence is one of the most common causes of death with a stake in the family of 47% in the total number of murders in the last 10 years. Violence against women is most often sexual and physical and occurs within a family or relationship. In the past 5 years alone, 91 women have been killed in Croatia, and more than half of the cases of murderers are their intimate partners. The problem is certainly bigger than can be concluded on the basis of these brutal figures. Women are the most vulnerable in the house, where they should feel especially safe and protected, and the danger lurks in the nearest environment. Women are generally more threatened by domestic violence than by any other act of violence. The reason is that violence against women is wrapped in the veil of shame of victims, and women often believe that they themselves are guilty of such a condition. Women are above all ashamed to discuss their problems with protection organisations or authorities, or when the perpetrator comes from the nearest environment. Violence can happen to any woman and it's not because of a woman's behavior but rather because of a system of patriarchs in which men have power, and violence against women is a way for them to maintain that power. Violence against women is an example of the abuse of one sex over another, and throughout thousands of years history has been driven by every social community to this day. What's most dangerous is that in society we have cases of intergenerational transmission of violent behavior that is passed down from knee to knee, where entire generations live in violence, the victim becomes the perpetrator, and the child teaches negative patterns of behavior by treating them as normal. I'm afraid the picture of this segment reflects the overall state of society and is part of the brutalization of violence against women and family. The D.A. pointed out the problems victims of violence face. Practice shows that mild punishment, release of the perpetrator to defend himself from freedom, understatement of safeguard measures is certainly a trend that contributes to the reduction of the number of criminal charges. Dissuading victims from reporting and generating non-connection into the system and that penalties for perpetrators are too mild and that the legislative framework that is missing should be amended. There is a lack of an organized system that would directly deal with cases of violence to provide security for those who can potentially save the victim from becoming a day-to-day sensation, thus providing adequate assistance to the victim. It is specific types of gender-related violence that requires a series of measures at all social levels because violence cannot be eradicated only by repression. We therefore had the opportunity to hear that good cooperation was established with the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. There is still room and need for the education of professionals and therefore I welcome your engagement when it comes to, through a monitoring body for comprehensive surveillance, data collection, analysis of cases of women killings and reporting, or Femicidal Watch which, as you said in 2017, is certainly a commendable action. The Ombudsman also points to a European Parliament resolution on women and their role in rural areas. The resolution states that family farms are in fact their owners are women on average only 30% of them are owners of agricultural holdings which certainly brings them into a more unfavourable position, significantly more unfavourable than men. In order to analyse relevant data relating to women in rural areas in the Republic of Croatia, the Ombudsman requested a statement from the Ministry of Agriculture which states that it did not open specific tenders for women only, but did it have several measures and activities of the rural development programme they had brought in. Also, the topic that is deeply concerned is the question of the right to, the right to abortion, and here we have the information that I have already presented and with which I have already spoken with you. Therefore, of the 371 healthcare professionals who are strings to perform pregnancy interruptions in 30 authorised health institutions, 218 workers do not perform them. Almost everyone's calling for a conscience. Gender does not result in a greater or lower tendency to appeal to the conscience, although I would find that information interesting personally. These figures show that there is a minority of authorised healthcare professionals or workers in health institutions in Croatia performing pregnancy termination, 153 of them, and as we say here we have one significant, one trend of reduction and we have heard the Ombudsman interpret it, which is actually conditioned. It should also be discussed about the price of termination of pregnancy in public health institutions and said that it is very unequal and varies between 1,150 and 3,300 kuna. In view of all the data collected, the average price at national level is 2,240 kuna. This represents a growth of 400 kuna compared to the average price of 2014 when it was 1,840. In those four years, a collection of thousands of kunas took place in several health institutions in several hospitals, and that is certainly one of the reasons why it makes it difficult for women to use that right. What's certainly alarming in the report and the alarm for the alarm is that two negative indicators are observed. Reductions in the number of healthcare professionals or workers providing a health care service for pregnancy termination and an increase in the average price of pregnancy termination. This is a major problem for women especially in rural areas because despite the orderly payment of health insurance, some of them are not economically capable of travelling from their place of residence to another city because of the call of conscience to pay for it, and some of them, at the height of one month’s salary, are actually a serious problem for ending unwanted pregnancy. When it comes to the monitoring of women's political participation and respect for gender equality from local to national and European levels, gender imbalance between women and men remains visible and non-compliance with the introduction of 40% sexual quotas under the Law on Gender Equality. That is why I welcome your recommendations sent to the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, when requested, you recommended that fines be replaced by the rejection of the lists of candidates, i.e. by marking the lists wrongly in case of non-compliance with women and men's balanced representations, also recommendations addressed to units of local and regional self-government, especially to counties, as well as recommendations to political parties which you advised to encourage greater involvement of women in all hierarchical internal levels and, therefore, to introduce provisions on general party acts which should, in a longer term, ensure a balanced participation of women and men in intra-party structures, and thus, consequently, also on candidate lists. In any case, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS welcomes all your efforts during 2018 and we will accept your office's 2018 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146061	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash who will speak in front of the Voice and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146062	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorney with the associates. We will, of course, support your report at the Voice and HSU Club, but in addition to what you do and the efforts you do speak and that here we are from our Club three women who are all three of us here and we have listened carefully and listen to the whole debate. So we have one privilege. The club is, there are five of us, of which we are three women. And here, as we see you there are many women, I, when I said hello, made a joke, so I said, "There are plenty of women where there is a lot of work." And now a little bit about the report. So, the report speaks about the situation that is in Croatia. The report realistically shows the situation that was in 2018, and now it's just the way we're going to read this report and what lessons we're going to learn from it that maybe the report you're going to have for 2019 or 2020 points to certain trends. I especially stress the importance of a chapter that speaks of equal rights, equal wages and equal pensions and that in life we really need to fight to make the stereotype as little as possible. In life when you compare your life journey from school to work to further progress of a girl or girl and a boy or a young man then you see that in school when a little at the end of the school year you see what the average is that girls or girls are basically the ones that go through with a lot better grades, that in the university they are in percentages faster colleges. It also shows that 60% of women finish their master's degree, that 55% of women doctorate and then come into real life where in real life no one should believe anyone's words as well. It is enough to check with their eyes and see the data, that women are less paid for the same job, that they have more contracts to work on, that they are harder to hire and that what is one of the great activities at European Union level, which are equal rights and equal wages and equal pensions that simply is not so and that is what we need to talk about and what we need to change. Because as wages are unequal, so are unequal pensions. And the theme is how to reconcile family and professional life. There you can find 22 reasons why it's difficult, why it's impossible. One or two reasons are enough to show that it's possible. Yesterday, the wife of Mrs Ursula von der Leyen was elected President of the European Commission. I'm not gonna tell her age, I can see it all, but I'm gonna tell her that she's a mother of seven. It is a woman who will be president, I suppose this has already been resolved by the European Commission and the woman who shows with her character and work how professional and family life can be brought together, therefore, a woman who has seven children. One of the vice presidents is supposed to be Danka Westager, who has four children. So it's all possible. That it's just not, that it's hard, but it's possible. So, these are some kind of efforts that all of us, regardless of whether we're dealing with politics at local, regional or state level, are you dealing with entrepreneurship, are you dealing with the economy, that's the task of all of us doing this business to point out that we're pointing to problems, that we're trying to solve the problem of glass ceilings when it comes to women it's absolutely clear that women in hierarchy are being released to a certain level, and then that imaginary glass ceiling is hard to break, but it's absolutely possible. The same way I live in these areas where the influence of the Mediterranean is quite large, a place where an extremely important family and I really think a lot of things, but that shows this report, comes from the family. Not in the way the Minister of Resort once said when it was a word when a mayor abused his wife, so he says "that's how it's married to you". I think there's a lot of things coming out of the family, kids painting up their parents. It was an amazing poll where young girls said in a large percentage that her boyfriend slaps that it's no big deal, that it's a certain way of showing love, so it's terrible, it's scary and it's scary. So the things we need to change, we need to say, we need to clearly define our views, we need to really use every opportunity. I will once again highlight the role of a lawyer who really uses every opportunity to point to such things because it is simply the task of all of us and that we must point out. Of course, children paint their parents, of course, that abusers give birth to new abusers, but these are the things we have to face and have to change. The Istanbul Convention when it was voted on in this HS, then caused great opposition, opposition and even debate to those who asked them what was there, whether you were against it, to define and to be one of the signatories of the Istanbul Convention that spoke about domestic abuse, as a colleague said, the family is the place where you somehow feel the most protected, and in fact women are the most vulnerable, women and children in this family where the most abuse and most deadly is happening, regardless of whether it's a partnership or family and I remember very well that debate that was in HS where colleagues were saying that they were absolutely anti-abuse and everything, but the Istanbul Convention had joked and said, perhaps the guilty city in which it was signed. Maybe let's say it was signed in Berlin, so it would be Berlinish, maybe it would be defined differently. Sign the convention and have one thing, and reality is something else entirely. Until reality doesn't work, we'll just be in reports that we'll get for another year to compare whether it's abused women, whether it's reported, whether the murdered women are less or more than last year, and then we're very happy when it's less, we should be happy that it's not there. Some other assembly, some other Parliament, in another story may have a report that will have such information, unfortunately that will not be the case with us. There are two other topics that I would love to say a few words about, these are women in sports. Sports is one of the things that is thought to be exclusively the right of men and to be a woman in sports, with several basics you have problems. The first problem is that the first thing a sportswoman gets is to lose her attributes that someone is experiencing as a woman, so there are discussions, we're not so big yet, but discussions at the world level are doing medical analysis, whether it's even a woman, whether it can compete in women's sports and everything else. I was once one of the officials of an alliance, it was a sailing alliance where there was, I must admit it was kind of scary and that in Croatia where sailing was characterized as a male sport, the woman was headed by the alliance, although at that time, for example, the president of a Turkish sailing vessel was, so the Turkish sailing alliance had a president, then the Swiss sailing alliance had a president, but at the same time somehow, and I felt all the time when I was some kind of restraint in relation to myself, although sailing was one excellent sport, of those pictures, of those young girls or women who had themselves been around the world in sailing and thus proved to be able to fight all, to truly sail in Croatia who were top athletes, who equally represent the interests of the Croatians at the Olympics and the world championships and achieve great success. I may now say something which is rough as opposed and it is kind of an indicator of this reality which is not only a reality in the Republic, but also, I would say, and in some other countries, unlike when the guys are sailors then everyone tells you how tall he is, how beautifully built, here's what the sport gave him, and when the boat girl says look, she must have a little stronger legs and this whole part because she deals with sailing, it's your sailboats. So this is already the first discrimination which, then in sport these discriminations go a little further, so women very difficult to come to some places to be presidents of individual alliances or to be active at European or global level, but it is absolutely possible. And another topic I want to talk about, the Constitutional Court is bound by a law that defines the way pregnancy has passed a certain recommendation, we in this conference HS are sure that we will not have this law on the agenda, I am absolutely sure because everyone hides it as a snake's legs, although the Republic has and now one law that is extremely correct, which should somehow be improved in relation to the new circumstances I have a lot of life experience and years and I was convinced that I would never, in my work, say even in my lifetime, have to talk about this subject and have to talk about this law because it seemed perfectly regulated in Croatia and that we can be proud that we have so regulated and that we should just refresh it. But obviously it's not like that, you know, when some other winds block up, then you get something that you thought was solved, it's not solved, and then you have something that's called a conscience, so the appeal of conscience has gynecologists who have decided to specialize in a specialization that can, which assumes that you're doing terminations of pregnancy. They have nurses, they also have some anesthesiologists, a question of when they will have porters in hospitals, and, say, a few miles away, you have one other state than hospitals and institutions and the City of Zagreb, where all doctors have about 95% conscience, there is 5% in that neighbouring country. The key question is when someone decided to specialize it as if someone had decided to specialize in surgery, but let's just say no, he decided not to operate on his knees because it was terribly annoying, but also as if stopping the pregnancy was some kind of joy. It's trauma, family trauma, trauma for that woman, and no one has the right to judge it, and of course it's not the way some other things are regulated, but it's trauma and that's how it should be approached. I also mentioned the subject of the Istanbul Convention through this debate, the subject of abuse, domestic abuse, but this is something we always see, which always causes public attention and we always remember it when it's too late. When a young woman is beaten up, when a young woman is lavendered by a young woman, and the others are broadcast on social networks, when a woman is buried then we remember it, we should always take care of it. We have to use every opportunity to point out, everyone has their own part of the policy responsibility, regardless of whether or not the mayor is, we unfortunately have a mayor who, who abuses his wife and is always, are handsome and transfers from the courtroom what is who he told even though it is absolutely unacceptable to do so, but that responsibility is also on us. And we can see about when this report is in the assembly, there are very few parliamentary deputies in the assembly this time there are some more deputies, but we take some things for granted. Some things shouldn't be taken for granted, stereotypes are all around us we need to fight them. And really here for the end, praise and report and commendation of the attorney's work, it's not easy for you, but it's possible to do your job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146063	Now it's Mr. Tomislav Zhagar's turn to speak on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146064	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will try to explain in a brief discussion why the Independent Representatives' Club will support this report. As far as the report itself is concerned, it is rightly done, of course, that it is extensive in the light of all the tasks that have been given and the law on the work of the Ombudsman, so the report gives us a picture of what this institute has done in the past period, but it also warns us that even though we are talking about the report on the work of the Ombudsman we are actually talking about a process that is happening in Croatian society and not only in Croatian society, it is a process that is unfortunately not possible, in this process progress cannot be measured in months, even for years, sometimes it takes decades to achieve certain shifts, but it does not free us from the responsibility that in this area as much as possible and we are behind issues that are important, and above all to combat violence in society. I'm going to approach this report from three angles of perspective that I think are important and I'm going to try to tell you why in this report, why I think this report is well done and what I think may be missing from this report so that it could be better in the future. The first thing or the first point I would like to talk about is the labour market and all the problems women face, primarily women on the labour market, because the report also shows that women are less paid, that they tend to come to work and that they are more often exposed to different forms of abuse. So, in the introduction, I asked the attorney-general in what way or how she values co-operation with local self-government units, above all, that she thinks of municipalities and cities, although the county as the strongest forms of units of local self-government or regional self-government, even though they have failed to carry out all the obligations of the attorney-general, but especially when it comes to hiring how the lawyer can co-operate with local, local self-government units because the report and said that, that units of local self-government should take a more active role in encouraging women to use all measures of active employment policy. What is characteristic in rural areas is that women often have neither information about these measures nor have enough information. They are often left to themselves and there is no one to help them in this business, so I think that these units of local self-government play an extremely important role, of course, with other institutions dealing with this business. It should not be surprised not to hear a statement recently, and this is what the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce said in the presence of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Economy in which he said that all those who do not accept the job offered through the Croatian Employment Service should be removed from the institution. deny them the right to health insurance. I suppose the president of the Croatian Chamber of crafts is not aware of what he said at the time because problems in Croatian society are so layered that they concern this area too, and that is gender equality and all of those reasons why some women today, even though they have a possibility through the institutions, do not accept work through active employment measures. And this is a broader social picture that Mr. Ranogajac might get if in society more talk about the position of women in the Republic of Croatia about the position within the family and the position of the whole within society. In order for women to get a better job, to be paid better for their work, it takes a lot more effort to say first of all that is on local self-government units. Here's a project that's good, I think it's a project called "Walks" implemented by certain units of local self-government, certain civil society, and we see that through this project "Wishful" women have managed to achieve their employment. However, this project itself has certain shortcomings, but this goes beyond this debate. It must not be one of the few light points that lead in that direction and in that direction should be more so and I say here I see local self-government units as active participants. Another thing I want to talk about, which is the political participation of women in Croatian society. Again, if we go to rural areas, then we see that this is an extremely big problem when we talk about municipal councils, city councils. In the county congregations, there is something less and the lawyer complains that she simply cannot force mechanisms to do so. I appeal to political parties to improve this situation. Of course, when we speak at all about the political participation of citizens, especially women, then there is an inevitable civil education. The lawyer praised those cities and counties that work in that direction. However, the largest number of cities, the county that can also take over these... functions, do not deal with these problems. And the third view, from which I want to look back on this report, was mentioned by my colleague, Dark Taritash, a sport. If we view sports as a very important social activity let's call it in which not only is sports from the aspect of the lifestyle important but actually sport is important through taking attitudes and social relations within the community. Through sport we can say at least we who have been in sports for years in sport people show their true face. There's no scenes in sports. So here's a few words about sports and the position of women in sports. In the Republic of Croatia, these data are a little older but I believe they haven't changed significantly, there are 280 thousand 790 registered competitors. It's 17% or 47 thousand 734 women. It is estimated that 192,000 competitors are registered in team sports, of which 26 thousand are 800 women. Although women are successful when we talk about sports and significant successes, let's just look at the example of the City of Zagreb as we stand with the financing of women's sport, because when we talk about gender equality then we cannot avoid finance, that is, how on the labour market so here in this segment of social action. Here's the data for 2017. Male hockey has seven clubs. It is totaled with 984 thousand 702 kuna, while 4 female hockey clubs are funded with only 85 thousand 773 kuna. The sports alliance of the City of Zagreb is funded by 18 men's basketball clubs with 10 million, almost 11 million kuna, while 4 women's basketball clubs are total funded with 2 million and 183 thousand kuna. The most visible gap in the financing of 3 men's volleyball clubs with a total amount of 2 million and 490 thousand kuna, while 8 women's volleyball clubs are funded with 2 million and 53 thousand kuna. And of course when we go to football then that thing is the clearest 42 men's football clubs 33 million 175 thousand kuna only City of Zagreb, while one female football club receives a total of 211 thousand 763 kuna. And just one thing to point out, the Gritch hockey girls are training at the Velesajm ice rink and that training starts at 23 hours, and it lasts until midnight. So I can't train at normal time, but it starts at 11:00. Let me read a letter sent by one of the viewers to Croatian TV: "Dearly, today at 17.40 you are transferring the men's finals of the matchbox. Don't pass on the women's finale of the same tournament. The answer to that question last year was that Television buys what viewers want to watch. I guess that's why the "Secret Life of the Zoo" show is very much seen in that term. But how do you expect to popularize women's football and fuck if you don't give it to them at the start, you don't give it a chance. It was a letter from one viewer. Of course, there was no response from Croatian broadcasting. When we talk about the participation or presence of women's sports on national televisions in the Republic of Croatia, it is primarily Croatian television, RTL and Nova. Of the number of contributions, the total number of contributions, 319 refers to men or 86%, 14% to women or 3.76%, less than 4%, and the mixed has about 10%, so everyone when we talk about all sports. Speaking of time, let's just see when it comes to football, of course there are men 168, women nothing related to football in the observed period, basketball 57 contributions by men, women 2 contributions, tennis 26 contributions by men and women 3 contributions. Speaking of tennis, a tennis player said that women in tennis should kneel every night and thank God that two tennis players popularized that sport. Novak Djokovic resorted to the statement, so he made a statement that women in tennis should be paid less than men because they play less time. He later fenced himself from that statement, of course, that statement is stupid, sometimes women play 5 sets, but for equally paid tennis tournaments in women's and men's categories is the merited tennis player King who in 1983 refused to return to the tournament until the value of the prize was even. Let me put it in the easiest simple dictionary, so just increase the prizes in women's and men's categories, and you'll see that it's going to be equally attractive both women's and men's sport, which happened in tennis even though here you can see that some don't fit. And when we talk about the time and amount of talk in public space when we talk about men and women in sports, the time men talk about, when we only talk about sports contributions, 6 hours, 2 minutes and 22 seconds, and you know how many women talk? 53 minutes and 15 seconds or only 12.78%, but here it's all about leaders and journalists. So when we talk about athletes, here's how many women get on average time, let's say male coach got 39 minutes and 7 seconds, and female coach got 8 seconds, athlete 40 minutes, 37 men, woman 3 minutes and 1 second, male managers 17 minutes, 51 seconds, female 34 seconds. So, according to all we can see about sports when it comes to the position of women in sports is, let's put it this way, at the level of prehistory. So, women in sports are neither rewarded, nor represented as they should be, slow is universal activity, sport is something that develops the psychosocial state of a person and I think this picture should be changed, and by changing the state of sport very quickly we will see a change in the state of society. Finally, the Independent Representatives Club will support this report because it has been well done, and we congratulate you on your work and wish you success in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146065	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club is counterpart Marija Alfirev, please welcome colleague Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146066	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear fellow Members of the Assembly, the Honorable Advocates with the Associates, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Guests here, so today we are talking about a report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality for the past year, one of the series of reports, we have spoken, we have had opportunities in HS to discuss a report by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and Advocates for Children, I think that we are still the attorney general, here is good what we are doing now before this parliamentary summer break because in any case this is a subject that needs to be discussed more times in HS, not only through this report, but also through other laws and through other topics. The SDP Club will accept this report because it is truly comprehensive because it brings the exact data relating to what has been done by the Ombudsman in terms of promoting gender equality because it contains indeed and those actions were not only declarative, but it is seen that they have produced certain outcomes, the outcomes that have just been aimed at promoting gender equality and promoting border movements and stereotypes and promoting all that is very important in order for men and women in the Republic of Croatia and their role to become more balanced and to really have what the Constitution says, and that is equality. But as far away as we are from it, the rest and other data are, because these data are not positive, and therefore it is in front of all of us, not only in front of the lawyer, but in front of all of us, how and what to do in order to achieve gender equality. Is it possible, that I do not know whether any state has achieved because it is clearly equal to not only the result of regulated laws, it probably has other, other causes that are deeply contained in society, in values, in what every man carries with him, and from the legacy itself, and from the families themselves. But it is up to us, those who are involved in the adoption of the Law, which we are working on implementing the Law, to create such legal frameworks that will be, indeed, contained everything that is important in order to achieve as much equality as possible, maximum gender equality. There are more complaints about citizens, so I hope that this is not only, that this is not the cause of increasing negative, negative actions, but that it is also a positive perception of the role of attorney, who is so open and free that people, citizens or citizens are complaining to her and knowing that she will have some influence and that there will be some positive changes, if someone turns to the Ombudsman. And that's what it means, then, that the D.A. has fulfilled her role. So it's up to us to see this report too, to ask the question of what was done last year, what did that year 2018 bring, so the biggest responsibility is there still for the government, because what was done to make it happen, in order to make certain changes? I say this especially because last year we accepted and ratified the Istanbul Convention, and accordingly it should be visible whether and whether so much money, enough money is directed towards the implementation of all those activities that are prescribed by the Convention, and which should have an impact further on the laws, regulations, in the extreme line and indeed on improving, improving the situation primarily of women, when it comes to violence against women. So in this debate on behalf of the Club, I'm going to talk about a few topics because talking about all the really issues would be enough, 15 minutes really is very little, because a few topics really are crucial when we talk about gender equality. First of all, it's a question of inequality in the world of work, employment and the world of work, and it's obviously one area where gender inequality is most visible, and we think it's precisely from this inequality, and from that part, everybody else, all other injustices, all other difficulties, because it's mostly a good job, but not just a good job, but to have a chance to advance, to have a chance to make a bigger pay, is what will certainly lead to a better position for women first, because it's about men being and in, when we talk about horizontal inequality and that vertical inequality in the field of employment, there are men in a better position. Which means they're doing those jobs that are definitely better paid, that they're in a better position, that they're able to get to those places, jobs, those positions that will give them far more pay, far more power, that they'll have the opportunity to do it and then better organize their lives. As long as women actually have to do all this together, so the lower salaries are in the part where, when they are on maternity leave and later on parental leave, as long as they are in this position to have lower wages in the beginning, and then they are excluded from the world of work, and they have no other options than the state, but not from other opportunities to change their position, then this reflects further on their status as retirement women, because it is also a huge problem where, with the economic dependence of women, it is precisely a huge disproportionate retirement between women and men, which indeed leads to further economic poverty of women. The question is, mentioned here today are a few things that seem to be good, but the question of whether they really lead in the long term in a good direction, because projects, especially EU projects in which many are praised, is the question whether leaving or directing women to low-paid jobs, and especially about the jobs of care of older people with disabilities who are usually paid by minimum wages, is this a good way to achieving equality between women and men? Whether this really is the right way or should have another direction and other option other than this, another option that will lead to investment in greater education, requalification and thus enabling women who cannot find jobs in their basic profession or are long-term unemployed, but direct them in such a way as to help them do better paid jobs. In the last year, we talked a lot, so we talked about 2018. When we speak, one of the main topics it continues, but it is not, it is not something that has, since last year, since several years, been a long-term problem, the issue is really violence against women, especially, mostly domestic violence, but also that statistics say that women are actually victims of domestic violence and it is therefore important to see what has been done and what has not been done to answer that question. We warned quite last year that it was important to provide enough resources for all provisions of the Convention to be implemented in our laws and into the system, but we are not sure how many answers are there and how much there has been done, so I hope that we may have a clearer situation at the the thematic session tomorrow and that for the next period, as regards 2020. have different or clearer, clearer positions. We will be equally interested in what happened in 2019. that is, what was done other than what we had the opportunity to hear. What is missed is that, that and the Ombudsman points out, the Household Act remained as it should not have been, and that means that life partnership and life partners are not allowed to be foster parents and that is what is really not positive, which is what we have strongly warned in the SDP, however, there has been no change. Also on the subject is said several times, on the subject of legal legal termination of unwanted pregnancy, we, as the SDP next week, will be sure to refer or hope to be at the debate of our proposal because we hope that there will be no deterioration of standards and women's rights, when it comes to termination of pregnancy, the more the situation of women is already very difficult in the Republic, especially because of the call for a conscience that is completely out of control and which is thus applied uncontrollably I would say and compromise and threaten the life and health, health and life of women. Key to what we think is that education and civic education is actually crucial and crucial in order to establish an equal position of women and men in the Republic of Croatia, it must indeed be in the education system because without it Hard to achieve [[Intruder: Hwa-la...]] better... [[Intruder:...coworker Alfirev]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146067	This concludes the debate on behalf of the clubs, continues with an individual debate, is the first colleague of Miro Bulj, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146068	Thanks to the well-respected chairman, the esteemed attorney, the secretary of state, co-workers and associates, of course, we see that there are a large number of women among you, which is good, I welcome one man, of course it would be good to involve men in the debate, here's colleague Žagar involved that we tell our opinions is, is the fact that we all have to talk about violence, gender equality, not just marketing as I said, but the real situations that happen in reality, and not only those who say we are for Istanbul, you are against violence, and we are not being for Istanbul, you are not people, so there were even statements in the public and even from this pay phone, and they were like some kind of respected big talk, yes. Of course, I personally see when I look at the Republic of Croatia, we can observe the Republic of Croatia, at the head of the country president's female course, which means that the Republic of Croatia is not a country that is at the bottom of the issue, and we see here I come from the city where the mayor is headed, the principal, therefore, I personally wouldn't mind having a number of lists just be women if they're quality or men that are quality, but in some senses, the percentages of them don't have to be significant that they're going to profit from a quality person and they don't have to know, or that they're going to have these lists, I'm saying now, that they'll have some content, but this is my personal attitude, so I personally have nothing against it if they're quality candidates, so let everyone be all of them be women or vice versa, that's my point of view of this. However, the fact is that we're tribbing... Violence, to try to talk about violence, to try to talk about all the sights that you have stated in your report, I will start from where I participated, helped in protests, helped to fight for my rights, and that as an ordinary citizen, these are examples here I will list other examples throughout Croatia, these are workers who were slaves of their employers, from whom the state raised their hands, and this was an example of a blue Dalmatian, a factory of the end which was not only the fosterer of Sinja and the Cetina region but also a wider one, which created and recognized the brand of the end, a synthetic Dalmatian, it was one company which was also a development company not only repeated for Sinj, but for the entire Cetina area which was locomotive in the development of the town of Sinj, and the bearer of this production were in these difficult jobs of women. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it fell apart, the state gave up on them, brought private owners from Italy who had turned these women into slaves since 2009, worked for free, now it was sold, those women who had no marenda were hungry, they were hungry for their children, they couldn't get their claims, no matter what the Dalmatinka sold. That's what I asked the prime minister, that's what I asked here to get rid of that part, that the state forgives that part of its claim and the local self-government and that at least these workers collect. No, they didn't charge those workers. And what is now the Istanbul Convention for these women in this aspect? That we would say we brought the Istanbul Convention, what the HDZ brought, and the SDP clapped. I don't think that's enough, I don't think that's enough message. I've set an example in the replica, I'm talking about workers, I've set an example in the replica, but I'm going to end it with it. For example, when we look at 2/3 of Croatia, my Dalmatian Zagora in the Cetina region, but also in the Dalmatian town of Lica, but I am now talking about this example of women waiting six months to get the opportunity to enroll in the UZV breast. And if they're lucky enough to sign up, if they're lucky, I'm speaking this language where I come from, it's going to be a six-month period, and if they don't sign up, then they're going to have to wait six months to get checked out again. Now that's the 2/3 of Croatia that are forgotten, you can't get out of these lights of Zagreb, seriously I'm telling you, you can't see the problem down people and women and men and children. So in Croatia, we have respected lawyers and respected secretaries 161 local self-government who have no ability to open for one kindergarten child, for one child. What will all these Istanbul Conventions, these applauses here, and praises, and philosophy, we 161, local self-government in Croatia have not allowed parents above all women who cannot be dedicated to having a child's opportunity to leave their child in kindergarten regardless of what the European Commission in Barcelona brought to be that by 2020, the triba will be enrolled in 90% of children's kindergarten precisely because of it. Until there are investments in these areas, I'm now talking areas out, so this is mostly about women of course and men, mostly women staying home because of such conditions and such areas where the distances of travel to work live. So, all structures not only of the judiciary, but of the entire government policy must be focused on reaching certain standards so that women can do work at all to contribute to society in a way that can make examples much better in Zagreb, in Rijeka, I don't know whether these are now ours who went up in Brussels. So there must be politics. Maybe it's easy for us not to discuss, I come from these parts, I came from these parts last night, I live in that area, I see these problems, I see how hard it is to live down to men and women and you mentioned the consequences of demographics, of course. It's all the consequences of bad policies. Bad policies towards the whole family, because I think why, how someone will stay alive somewhere he can't diet to have a kindergarten, secure, di-no health care, where there's no secure transportation to school for his child. So that's where the whole family is threatened, and of course the greatest burden of such circumstances will be borne by the one who stays home, and that's mostly, there are other cases, they're just.../incomprehensible/... single parents left behind have both men and women who are meaning, but more of course women. So let's look at the situation and what I suggested on several occasions, then it was called here that Zagora better not have given birth to me, that I was a chap. As long as we don't act as we did in the EU, the countries that I've listed are co-financed that parents stay, have kindergartens, that there's a possibility because we're never going to reach 90% of kindergartens to have children 90% of kindergartens. In some of our counties, not even 10% of children have the ability to enroll their children in kindergartens, not as guardians for children, but as educational institutions from 3 to 6 years of age. We understand that kindergarten we all see that there is someone to look after a child, it's kind of a folk thing, but I think that without serious policies, this pressure is mostly on women, but also on men. And I repeat once again we have brought here the Istanbul Convention we thought that GREVIO what we pay for will solve all his problems, GREVIO will not solve our problems but ourselves in this country that must be sovereign in making its decisions, in protecting these weaker and women and all the weaker meanings. And if in this way, if we act that way, if we just read these reports every year that just doesn't have much movement, no matter what I voted for the Istanbul Convention, no matter what, no matter what, no matter what. I have my own position, but I'm exclusively for protection and against violence of women and if anyone appreciates women, I mean, for which I don't, I'm sorry that there aren't more women now in the assembly of all parliamentary MPs, I don't have that problem, but I don't have that problem, but I declare it waved with some conventions, and I don't do anything about the judiciary sending a message to someone who's the whole of Croatia who was disgusted by pictures of a girl bleeding on the floor where she's hitting her head with her shoes and she's breaking the toilet shells and urinal. And people like that, when the penalty is reduced, what kind of message is that? I'm not going to go into the judiciary, but what kind of message is that? What is this message to future violent men who will find the victim in the weaker, in this case in women in this case it was also a dark-aged girl? So there's a lot of work to do. It takes a lot of good faith. I'm sending a message to both the former and the current prime minister. You can also help workers who have a will. You can also help with health services, and kindergartens. It's not enough just to bring some kind of convention and wave it to be said in Brussels here's a pro-European man himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146069	Thank you. We have one replica. It's a colleague of Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146070	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think I have to react because I think that's at least how I understood the debate of my colleague Bulja. In this debate, he tried to relativize things, problems, or what was in the reports. In the reports are quite concrete data, relativating in a way that has tried some good examples which the exceptions actually highlight as good practice in Croatia, which is not true. It's just not how the report shows. So there are, surely, good examples, but they're not the rule. As such, the report is actually full of information that says that this is exactly the attitude of relativating the problem in Croatia, leading to an increasing inequality and growing settlements over women and domestic violence. That's why I don't think this kind of discussion works out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146071	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146072	Dear and esteemed colleagues, I don't know what you heard from my mouth. All I said was I'll do it again. So, only the Croatian state needs to be protected, so also mainly women against violence. Of course, every violence I have noted is that the messages when both the judiciary and the messages sent by our institutions do not absolutely go into the hands of the protection of violence or the organisational. Because women, I don't know what it's like with you, dying in line waiting to exercise the right to ultrasound your breasts because no one cares about these women in 2/3 of Croatia or a similar example of a Dalmatian worker who got me arrested and tried to exercise their right as an activist to pay. If you think it's a revaluation, then I really think, here's the woman you are, so I don't think you could find any element where I said it was, but the adoption of only the Istanbul Convention, waving it, not protecting our judiciary, the judiciary... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146073	Thank you, Comrade Bull. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146074	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys, respected co-workers, respected representatives of ministries, respected colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that this report, like all reports so far, is the Office for Gender Equality headed by the Advocate General, very comprehensively and that it gives us some kind of blood count of the Republic of Croatia in the previous year and 2018 respectively in the field of gender equality. And despite the fact that gender equality is the constitutional value of the Republic of Croatia and despite the fact that since 2003 we have received the Attorney's Office the first, the second, and the third, and many of the many laws that should have regulated or removed certain problems from different areas that actually show that in Croatia, regardless of the constitutional value and recognition of gender equality as one of the fundamental democratic values, this equality does not live in practice today 20 years later or if you want 16 years later, we talk about the same or similar numbers and we talk about the same or similar problems. The only thing that is increasing is the number of cases reported or reported in the Attorney General's Office which may not speak of an increase in certain gender equality problems, but is talking about the awareness of citizens and citizens but above all of Croatian citizens that they may have a place to address if they consider their rights in this case to be their right only because they are women or men or what is sexual or birth-related discrimination, they know where to address them. And today in the 21st century, we are still talking about our beautiful country as a country where, unfortunately, 56% of the unemployed still make women. So among the unemployed are the majority. Among the working-active populations, women are minorities. We're still talking about women being less paid than men for the same jobs, women having fewer pensions, slower and weaker progress, that they can be university professors but only in 2% of cases they can become rectors, in only 20% of cases they can become deans, in only 15% of cases they can be members of some administrations, in 20% of cases they can be members of the supervisory boards. It remains those who, in a good part, suffer violence not only of that family, but of any kind of sexual or gender-induced violence. They are very often exposed to violence and sexism in their workplaces. The mayors of the largest cities in Croatia continue to speak to them from small screens through the media that they are women to be the best women in the world to give to everyone. Still the prime minister calls a reporter sweets. The prime minister of Croatian lawmakers continues to say they are cheap. It's the 21st century. These are the states of women's rights in Croatia. And that is equality between women and men in Croatia. I understand that for some things, for an active employment policy especially for women who are between the ages of 50 and 64 or for involving women in the labour market, they need more substantial financial resources. I know that dealing with family violence needs a serious strategy. These are all measures that require time, which require money, but above all they require good will. But there are things that don't cost anything, which is an example, an example of people who act as important responsibilities in the country, who have the opportunity to communicate with the wide spectrum of the population through the media that their role models don't work on deepening gaps between men and women, doing no harm to women. If they can't already protect equality and help women to win the same election, then they don't have to. Because there are 20% of us here in the Croatian Parliament and we can join together in solidarity and push some topics regardless of the party colors to rise above our party partial narrow political interests, we cannot achieve anything in this Croatian Assembly without the votes of the majority, and these are our colleagues. And as long as men are not aware that the question of women's rights and gender equality is not a question, a woman's question, such as domestic violence is not a problem for four walls, until we reach full gender equality. Because most of them do not mean that they are right and that some of them are in the majority does not mean that they should abuse and not use these mechanisms to help those in the minority, regardless of the differences between men and women, the majority, minority population or either, religious differences or any minority groups with which in Croatia they have various different problems. I think here my colleague Bulj mentioned to the president of the Republic of Croatia, that it is nice that after a long, long, long time for the first time in Croatian democracy we have a woman who was directly elected to the post. However, first one, I say for the first time because Mrs. Jadranka Kosor was not actually chosen in such a way, however, one owner does not make spring. And more importantly, how much has this woman in a position of power contributed and paved the way for other women, which is an even more crucial question? It's important to have us, but it's important when we're there to talk about the right topics and to fight for our cause, not only to be remembered for the locker rooms at the football championships, our dresses, our skirts, our heels or our offices where we move them. It's to take advantage of our function, our opportunity, our pay phone, our position to fight for other women. Why? Because we must never forget that many women before us opened the way for us, if there were no brave women who fought for our cause, who did not act like ficuses today we would not be in this Croatian Assembly at all, would not have the opportunity to talk about these topics, would not have the right to vote, would not have the right to school, would not have this kind of access to the labour market. We must never interfere with this, that many brave women have opened the way for us, and it is our duty to all of us who have any position in society, and I do not only think of politicians, I think of other women who have power, influence and opportunity to change things, from their street to their neighborhood, from their city to do the same. When we look at the data there are many topics that could be opened now, but when we look at the topics, let's say the topic of representation at local level, then we see that there is little political participation better in 2017 in local elections than it was in 2013. So 41.7% of the candidates were women, but the quota was still not respected at 14% of the candidate lists were still quantitatively represented even where the quota was respected, but were in the lower part of the list as a decoration of democracy without a real opportunity to value them. Personally, I was able to change things like the president of the city organization of SDP Zadar, and I created the first zip list, not only was there 50% of women about 50% of men, but it was a zip list. I also asked for the principle to be respected by the HNS and HS coalition partners, the HSS with which we joined the elections. It wasn't easy, it cost a little bit of male ego, but in principle, personally as a woman and a politician, I would never forgive myself for being able to do the work or try to do what I've been saying for years. That is why I think it is our fellow Members here, but also our colleagues' responsibility to contribute to the fact that the following year in the Croatian Parliament or in 5 years in the Croatian Parliament, we do not talk about these reports in this way anymore, that we continue to face the same problems, that our statistics are still devastating, but that we start to do steps, small but significant. I know it's not sometimes, sometimes it's easy, but it's not impossible. Whoever wants to find a way, who won't find an excuse, and we women are known to be able to do a lot of things, a lot more things, more things than once that we tend to multitask, we just have to be careful not to fall under the pressure of becoming men. We need to maintain our female approach in everything we're doing. When I say women, I mean nothing wrong, I mean nothing sexual but we are different, we are different in approach, we are interested in different topics, we have a slightly different approach to solving problems that is our value, not our weakness, we should work on it together and build a better society together, help and the Attorney General have less work to do. And just one more question at the end. I don't know why this government doesn't have a national policy for gender equality. It's the last thing I remember. expired 2015. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146075	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of Hajdukovic's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Glasovac, in the eight years I've been following the subject of human rights, and then indirectly, as part of that and the subject of gender equality, I've always said that the reports of our attorneys are actually a kind of lacmus paper. They show us actually what is really the state of the field, which is really the state of consciousness of our society and the real achievements that we have managed to implement in everyday life. So I'm not talking about legislation here, I'm talking about the real problems our citizens face. A very important part of each report is a recommendation, so this report also contains a whole series of recommendations. What's devastating and what we want to underline here is that the recommendations from year to year, here's 8 years. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as I'm concerned, they repeat. That says we're working too little on implementing the framework we already have.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146077	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146078	Comrade Hajdukovic, this is still a good report because here you have information that in 92% of the warning cases, the lawyer's proposals and recommendations are respected in full, 5% in part, 3% do not respect. It means that this lawyer, her word and her letter still have some effect on state institutions, unlike some reports that come to HS where these figures are absolutely defeated. However, what institutions need to work on is that these complaints and the need to intervene with the Ombudsman are as small as possible. I ask you, what do you think causes as many as 150% of complaints about sexual orientation, most often the same sex? Did the government and government policy not only contribute to this, not only in this word or in doing it, but also in the absence of reactions when others and different in this society are lynched and they do not respond to negative phenomena in Guys. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146079	Next is the replica of colleague Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146080	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Glasovac, you yourself have now mentioned actually the share of women and the political participation of women, the participation of women in politics. What I'd like to hear and say is there's an argument to actually justify, and that's an argument of quality as an excuse not to, that you don't respect the equality of women, men, especially on the lists, so I guess if there's going to be 50:50 women, men that there's going to be a reduction in quality, is there something you agree on that matter or how do you view it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146081	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146082	Which would mean that 78% of the men in HS are the representation that they are more quality than women, absolutely not, I don't think that's the case. I think 51% of the Croatian population are women and is a crazy country that gives up such potential and that women where they are given the opportunity have taken advantage of that opportunity. But there's a little mistake here and in women, I don't mean mistakes, I think they're very rarely fated, they're constantly asking if they're good enough to get into something, they're critical, they're self-critical of themselves. Men take risks more often, enter, actually accept positions, accept responsibilities. Women here very often question themselves, think they're not good enough, and thus miss out on something that might do a lot better than their colleagues who get caught right away, catch something. This is a very, very common case in politics, but also in some other segments of society. We're overcritical, self-critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146083	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation of colleagues Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146084	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Glasovac, you know that in many issues related to gender equality with you, the truth is that the shifts in the attorney's reports we hear from year to year are slow, but there are. However, this government cannot possibly be prejudged by the fact that women are putting on the second plan and by the number of ministers we have most in the Croatian governments so far and finally we chose last week the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, who was the proposal of this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic, but also because we may have recently had the first prime minister of our country on an active campaign of an association that is now talking about violence against women, so that certainly things move better and I believe that both opposition and power within their party positions must seek greater solidarity among women and greater motivation of women to deal with politics and thus improve the position of women in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146085	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146086	Thank you, comrade Putica, so that... For the same, the same thing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I still don't think five ministers of 21 members or a member of the government are enough. I'm glad to hear about mrs. Pejcinović-Burić, I think it is a remarkable success for the Republic of Croatia, and I still prefer that it is in fact in this whole story with other aspects, the fact that the woman was an advantage rather than a lack, that is how it works in European institutions. I hope that in the Republic of Croatia we will come to the point that between the two candidates who have the same quality in the Republic of Croatia the same time will come when someone will have the advantage of being a woman, not of being a man, when we have to choose between two equally high-quality persons, which was certainly one of the essential elements for Mrs. Pejcinović-Burić, with all the qualities she has and indeed is, I don't think it will embarrass the Republic of Croatia in the world and Europe, but we will be able to be proud of her and her work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146087	Thank you. The next individual debate is counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic, please welcome colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues, I'll actually begin where my colleague Putica and Glasovac ended up. So, we're talking about gender equality if we're talking about public life participation and the places where it's being decided, and so on, I would now single out one of the two specialities, and that's exactly the institution of our attorneys, or the Ombudsman, all women. Just as the leaders of the Council of Europe are also all taken up by women, so they have good examples of I think. However, I am certainly starting my debate on the role of attorney-general and I am very pleased that from year to year people's consciousness is growing that they can address the institutions of the Ombudsman, whether they are specialised, there are general defenders and they can seek protection for their rights in those institutions. I think that as a home we should certainly listen to the recommendations of our attorneys and listen and read these reports and at the end of the day they are ours, we have empowered them to deal with these very questions on our behalf. Before I move on to the subject of my debate, I will focus on violence, and I would like to point out that the prosecutor for gender equality is not only involved in violence and it is not her exclusive domain. Unfortunately, he must deal with it as well as we will see from the tax data. But I would prefer that in the following reports we deal more with other topics and that this domestic violence is as little as possible. Otherwise, I referred a written question to the government and the prime minister about when the government will adopt a strategy on gender equality in the Republic of Croatia and when and how it will implement the Istanbul Convention. Unfortunately, I didn't receive satisfactory answers or I'd be happy to share with you. The Ombudsman therefore stated in its report that in 2018, 10272 persons were reported infringing ways. That's 10.7% less than in the same period last year. I would sincerely like to believe that this is because in the Republic of Croatia there is really less violence in the family, but the data that we have been presented actually points to what we know ourselves and that is that the victims in Croatia are constantly demoted... , demoted to report violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, out of these 10272 people, almost 80% of that number are men, so mostly men are abusers, 2434 make up relapsers, so people who have previously committed domestic violence, people who obviously feel safe enough to commit violence not only once but even more times and even after they have been reported. What does that tell us? What can that tell us as legislators? It tells us that as a society, we are constantly making appointments. It takes a great force for the victim to decide on this step in reporting violence. It takes great determination, a great desire to save your life, the life of a child, and what the state does is to destroy that power, to put out every hope for a better tomorrow, and that life without violence for that person at the end of the day is impossible. Let's just look at the figures, the ratio of the proposed, accepted and applied protective measures. Over the past year, 6 thousand 741 protective measures have been proposed, carried out in 1571. So 23.31%, not a quarter. When considered by groups of safeguards, 13% of the proposed psychosocial treatments were conducted, 42% of the restraining order, 36% of the distance from the joint household. Both colleagues and colleagues 0.7% of the mandatory treatment of addiction. And addiction can often be a catalyst of domestic violence. We stand best on the restraining order, but half of the proposed restraining orders have not been implemented. So why are we doing something like that as a society? Why do we give over and over and over again the opportunity for the violent to be near their victims? I repeat another piece of information related to the so-called. mandatory treatment of addiction. 0.7% of the people for whom the treatment of addiction is proposed have indeed passed the treatment. It's a defeating piece of information. They're 10 out of 1447, 10. Why is that? Well, because a person's consent is required for mandatory treatment of addiction. But I'm going to ask you here rhetorically who's asking for the consent of a person who's being abused to commit violence. The state is standing directly here on the side of the bully and not on the victim's side, which is why violence is becoming less and less reported. But what about when the system partially does its job? Here's a quote from the D.A.'s office. And I quote: "It has been shown that the system, apart from having no effective preventive mechanisms, does not have any quality and effective resociation programs of violent persons, so it is the same after they are most often subject to criminal punishment, but the fine is returned home to the victim and the violence is then actually becoming more brutal." The end of the quote. Violence is becoming more brutal colleagues and colleagues. And we allow it. Where is the implementation of the Istanbul Convention? Where are the amendments to the law? Where's the strengthening of institutions? Where's the infrastructure building? I'm afraid not. This government has ratified and we as a Parliament have ratified the Istanbul Convention and there is a question towards women and domestic violence in general that clearly concerns her. This issue is clearly resolved for the government and it goes on, its ship is sailing further, probably as we see every day in the media deep in corrupt waters, so it is not even able to deal with the protection of the fundamental human rights of its citizens and the right to life free of violence is that. I thank the attorney for the comprehensive report, and I hope that someone in the government will read it, and I hope that someone will think of the information and figures that the report contains. Because as we've heard a lot of recommendations are respected. Whether they've been implemented is already another question. And yes, I hope that someone in this government will finally cut through and say that they want to face problems of violence against women and domestic violence, but also of all other forms of suppressing and trampling women in our society and not just women but of all victims of domestic violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146089	There's a replica on your exhibit, that's a colleague of Sabina Vosovac's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146090	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, I would just add, or apostrophe, further that we will not achieve full equality in society, nor will we be able to reduce the number of violence in the long term if we ignore one important segment, which is education. I am sorry that the Ministry did not listen to the counsel's recommendations in terms of introducing a separate class of civic education and education in this new one, let's call it reform, because it has really proved that those cities that have self-organised and started Rijeka, then gave their programme to other municipalities and cities that want to implement it, that they are extremely good feedback from both students and their parents and from teachers after now on, how many, 2.3 years is the mandatory subject being carried out... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146091	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146092	Thank you very much. My colleague, here we are colleagues and in the profession, I always like to stress in my discussions that 1kn invested in education is 4k saved in prevention, in recovery, that's what doctors like to say. And I think even, and good education can save more kuna. It's sad that we don't have that subject in the curricula, I believe that our children should learn what it means to be a responsible citizen, a responsible individual to themselves and to others. And until our schools again become educational institutions in the fullest sense of that word, which our children will prepare for life in society I think we will have more cases of violence. Because we've had to break such a spirit since we were little, growing up that women and men are completely equal. Then I believe that these reports will be much shorter and that there will be much less recommendations and that we will have to discuss much less in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146093	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Maria Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146094	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's exactly the debate that is now, what counterpart Hajdukovic was now talking about and the replica that my colleague Glasovac had in that direction that I want to discuss in these few minutes. Education and how much we invest as a country in education, education is actually how I see it as a key element that should and which could lead to solving some problems. It's really crucial. We will hardly be able to influence some, something that, directly, happens in the family on the value or attitudes expressed to families, perhaps the interactions that occur in families. But what we can really influence as a state and as a system are, it is a system of education. I wouldn't just say that good examples will tell us, but I would say a healthy logic, one thought mind, common sense talks about investing, investing if we talk about gender equality itself, then it's crucial that in the education system, gender equality is actually passing through the whole system. If we continue to have examples of what you cited as attorneys, examples of still being in materials, educational materials still present in birth stereotypes, then we cannot expect any shift towards a more progressive society, to a more advanced society, to an equal society. As long as women remain perceived in the education system as housewives, housewives, housewives, such as those which are de facto less valuable in this case because even less their work is not paid and there is no need to pay and as long as they are perceived they will hardly reach a shift in all other segments of society. We will hardly come to equality in any area, and that is what brings further inequality in the field of employment without further ado. This is part of one such image, such a single attitude, one in the education system is partly certain and conditioned in part and violence is the cause of domestic violence. Because if a family or educational person has met only this stereotype picture of a woman through his life, he will surely find it unacceptable to see a woman who wants something other than saving or caring for her children. And so, in some cases, and we know that from your examples, from examples of life examples that it is this respect for a woman not to take care of her children enough, that she does not care about the household one of the reasons why there was violence. So I appreciate your efforts and I think that all together, actually you, but certainly whoever is the current decision maker, the lawmaker, and that's the government right now, so they're the key what they're going to do at this point that we actually respect the strategy, you yourself have set out a strategy for gender equality of the Council of Europe where this objective of preventing and combating gender stereotypes and sexism is explicitly highlighted and what we are going to do in Croatia to avoid it. And in the education system it should not be, not at all, not little or anything but should not be at all, regardless of the individual values in families and what someone thinks differently but in the educational system it should not be at all. It's there, as well as learning life's skills. Not only this one of ours, this school of life as they call it, there is indeed one key school of life skills for all because it is possible that many people, including those victims, but also violent people just don't know, don't know what to do in some situations, no one has taught them, they don't know them themselves and someone else hasn't taught them. There's also, there's all of us company, but school too. Schools must really learn for life, but in the right way including a lot and a lot of civic education because through themselves, some subjects themselves will certainly not learn it, and learning obedience will also not get far because obedience will certainly not lead to equal society, the society of equal women and men. On the contrary, it will surely lead to severe emotional problems both on the other hand and to some kind of violence. What I'm also worried about, and I'd like to mention here, is that you mentioned in your report when it comes to the County Committee on Gender Equality, because really as much as money is invested, as much resources we invest, we're going to get back as much. What I particularly noticed because I came from Sibenik-Knin County, which is exactly a negative situation, is a negative picture because from 2015 to 2017 you yourself wrote that this commission did not take any steps and that is one, one really negative picture, and unfortunately there is one party in power all these years and I don't know how the candidate is, currently the mayor, and he was a candidate for the European Parliament, I don't know how it really applies, or this one image and his need to contribute to the struggle for gender equality, but through 10,000 kuna on the annual level from the budget of the county is actually embarrassing. That's, that's also at the local level when we're talking about a picture of how worried we are or how worried we are. You yourself have noted that there is a huge disproportionateness between counties or local isolation because it is not a matter of whether 600 kunas are singled out, as you have mentioned or 250,000 kunas regardless, so I do not have that information that is county, but it is certainly greater isolation will lead to a more quality concern and a more quality attitude towards the problem, or the desire to achieve gender equality, but also everything that attracts inequality, and that is, therefore, the relationship to which I say the bad, negative, and that is violence that is based on gender or gender and which can be a more quality relationship, quality education, in fact, change and lead to a very different picture. Here, it's so much in my individual explanation and I say once again I want to point out that I really think education is key and that maybe in 2019 we won't know what picture or your report will be, but that there will be... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146095	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146096	Thank you. My colleague Alfirev, first of all, must not do so if a woman will have or will not have a shelter for victims of violence depends on the financial strength of the city, the municipality or the county or the goodwill of the church, that is the first. Second, when you talk about women who find it difficult to comply with family and business obligations, yes, I encourage the right for a woman to decide whether to be just a housewife, commit herself to a family or not to have children or to want to combine her business and private life. I don't want to impose on anyone that every woman has to have a career and a family, but women who opt for both career and family states or local community must be the one who will do everything to make it possible for her to do the same. When we talk about daycare, when we talk about homes for old and powerless, when we talk about incentives in the health system, in the social system, in the work system is the role of the state. Don't impose someone's lifestyle, but help To make them come true... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146097	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146098	Thank you. Comrade Voter, that you have mentioned key things when it comes to, so 2 topics, shelters, shelters must be provided for you all. However, I worry that it is still a trend for women victims of violence to simply leave their homes. I'm interested in whether they can hold their position and be with the family, with the children, where they are, because there are examples or cases where possible, without everything being done to stay and receive help where they are, and that the perpetrator is otherwise excluded from that place. The other thing is, I don't have time right now, and that's when you said, I don't think I have any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146099	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146100	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have talked a lot about education, I think with full rights because the only thing that can change a negative picture in Croatian society when it comes to gender equality and equality and equality regardless of diversity is education. In the other famous Ciceron said the task of wisdom is to distinguish between right and wrong. We are rarely wise and rarely different from what is not, and education because a system that does not only create quality engineers, high-quality plumbers, hairdressers, doctors, lawyers and lawyers is primarily his task to create good society and good people. Therefore, the only quality education that will include education and civil society and education for better health will ensure that the Republic of Croatia is a good society, the society of all who are equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146101	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146102	My colleague Jovanovic, yes, thank you for this replica. It is true, it is simple, education is not enough, without, without this second, we will not achieve one quality, the quality of man, the quality of society because by educating or raising for these things, all that the civic notion of citizenship has, we can actually through persistent education and gain. I'd say it's not just a right to choose here, we have the right to choose everyone, including women. However, to achieve a society where wages will be as balanced as possible because they will also be achieved by such a balance and that men They're actually taking over part of the commitment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146103	The next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146104	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you've talked a lot about the education system, and I'd refer to a few more problems that exist. In fact, speaking from the personal experience of the victim of violence, in this case children often become violent themselves. Why is that? They simply imitate the only thing they know, and that's what they saw in the family, and that's where our education system is crucial, especially professional services, so psychologists and educators. When you look at our schools the situation with professional services is extremely bad, so some schools have psychologists half the time or usually don't have it, pedagogogics at half the time have many schools, and classrooms that have to work and teach, so often, they don't get to deal with such problems first, and secondly, they're not ready for it. So listening to psychology or pedagogy isn't enough to help a child like that, and he just needs to be given care, to be in that school. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146105	A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146106	When it comes to violence, then the victims are all, then indeed the victims are all, of course, the children are the greatest victims. And when we talk about bullies and actually some people don't really know because it's not enough just to say it's wrong, so kids, it's not enough to tell a child it's not good when no one showed them how, no one showed them how to react, what to do in a particular situation, how to set up when it's in any situation, it's not enough to say no, no, don't do that. I know, I also have examples at the local level that some projects have even diminished now lately when working with violent people because we can't even forget working with violent people because they too need to be told through psychosocial treatment that they should be treated because maybe they've never been in a position to live. react differently. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146107	And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146108	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Alfirev, you mentioned several times the fact of education, the fact of education, the fact of the work of everyone and mentioned your experience in your Sibenik-Knin County. It always seems to me that it's always very important to have these field experiences, the experiences people have, where you see in real life. How is it in Sibenik-Knin County, what's there, it's given any shifts made there, did anything really happen there in terms of education, education or are they all sitting on their hands and waiting for someone else to handle it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146109	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146110	Yes, thank you, Comrade Dark-Taritash. Well, here I am, so when, when you read the report, so the Ombudsman's annual report on gender equality, it's in a negative context to mention the county from which you come, where one party is actually so many years in power, so when you see that in a negative context you can't really be proud of it, it's, it's actually data that shows that something is not good, that not only is there not enough money, but that the relationship to, according to the problem, is not good at gender equality. My colleagues tell me they asked the mayor for reports, they didn't get it last time. They asked, they didn't get the report. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146111	Thank you, thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Sunchana Glavak, please welcome fellow Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable attorneys with associates, I will look briefly at your report where I must say at the very beginning that unlike the previous years, what we can be complicit in is making little progress, but no, but not sufficiently visible. What you warn about from year to year, and so on and in this report, is that the complaints referred to you as your attorney, or your office, refer to the area of social security, and that my predecessors have spoken about it, and what is rarely derived from what we call hiring women, provide women with those material conditions, either to be independent or simply to have a job and to be independent of their partner in that financial sense. Peace insurance, health insurance, labour rights, then the trend is similar to previous years, then management, public information, media, etc. What makes me happy is that there have been many of your recommendations that I have written. However, what we would like to see as progress may be made in the next report or in some other way through the media, to which you will look at how much your warnings have actually resulted in a real change in the state of the institutions or whom they have already been referred. You boasted in your report that you were working on eu projects, which is what I can express satisfaction, but I would also like to refer to criticism that I think so well on purpose that we haven't had any relevant domestic research in recent years to see where we are, for example, relatively, this time I will mention women in a media environment when we have had relevant research in 2015 and some years. I think the situation is still in large numbers compared to women or in favour of women. But here, I don't think quite positive because the latest research has shown about the media environment if we look at the number of employees or who works in the media, it's mostly women, if we watch who comes out of the field and who the reporters are, they're mostly women. But when we turn the other sheet of paper then we see that in the media women are actually not present in those topics that are actually the most present in the media, which is primarily politics, if you want an internal policy where 3x less questions about women, ask for statements, ask for their opinions, where women are actually absolutely subordinated to male partners, where women are actually wondering about issues like this, gender equality and never or almost never what they have to say about the world of finance, about an economy or something like that. So I would like to have a new relevant recent survey to see where Croatia is in relation to these figures. You, however, refer to the media and their actions in your report, but above all, this review refers to those stereotypes or sexisms that we still face. So, the media analysis mainly refers to this, so judgment about women is about access to the topic when domestic violence is analysed or analysed when a woman is from the world of politics, an economy by dress code or something like that that we can't actually move forward but it seems to me that we're very stagnant or actually primate, in the media, taking over such topics. When we talk about the media then I will support, for example, some more information about the representation of women and men as intercessors, and I find it equally devastating, not as a criticism to you, but simply a total society in which we live when we talk about partners, interviewed persons or guests in a study of 50 guests, men appear in almost 76% of cases and women of course 3x less than men. I mentioned the subject, so domestic policy, so women around 20% are asking questions, 80% are asking men. When we talk about an economy of over 70%, it's equally male, women, so about 30%. Foreign policy as well as internal policy is the domination of colleagues who are asked questions, the black chronicle of women 30%, men 70%. So as long as we don't actually come to gender equality or some social issues for all other socially important issues, it's actually men. And that media image also sends a picture of us as a society or sends a message in society. That is why I say it would be very good if we had some more recent research to see how Croatia stands in this regard. Therefore, I would also like to commend your initiative, that is, the initiative of the Council on Electronic Media to launch the website of women and media, tomorrow you will have a conference, tomorrow will be signed, so that in this way I think we can talk even more strongly about all issues concerning gender equality or inequality. And if we were to bring it all down to the level of politics, we could just look back at the recent elections we had for the European Parliament, and look at what the participation of women was, or the representation of women on the lists of political parties, where I must say, the HDZ did make a significant step. What I'm interested in, since we have some mechanisms set up for the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality, I'd like to know what kind of cooperation is, if it's to judge by the report of cooperation with the MUP, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Demography, you say it's good. I would like to know what kind of cooperation there is with the co-ordinators in the bodies of the state administration or the Committee on Gender Equality, the Office of the Government of Gender Equality, and I believe that the progress that seems to be made from the level of various ministries, and so will the last Protocol on Family Violence Protocols brought by the Ministry of Demography, and I think that it will actually help reduce domestic violence in its own way. And I would like to draw attention once again when we talk about violence against numbers that aren't good, numbers that actually warn us not to turn our head against violence that happens primarily in cases of domestic violence, women are still to the greatest extent victims of domestic violence, it's been violated and 10272 people reported as a terrible number, we have to admit. Of which 78% of men and 22% of women. I believe that in the coming period you will also have good cooperation with all the competent authorities, you as an institution and that the next year when we will discuss this report we will still have some figures that we will not only repeat from year to year and when we will be able to say that we have made one step, not only about the protection of women, but also about their position on the labour market and the overall position in our society, when we are talking about sub-represented sex, which is for now female sex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146113	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit. This is a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146114	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Glavak, I'm glad you touched the media in your debate. We can see this on a daily basis, so Croatia has a president, the president is not my choice, but what's certainly bad is that when the president says something, when there's a show in the UN, what the media says was dressed, reports about the length of her dress, colors, makeup and everything else, but what she said is only the second, third or fourth news. And I think that everyone who deals with politics should fight it, fight it, that what we say is important, and that it doesn't matter everything else. That these are the same stereotypes where the first woman in politics is perceived by her looks, and the rest according to what she says, and I'm sure you've had opportunities, like me, I've been on one show with four men, I've been given a word on a 45-minute show. at 31. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146115	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you're right. I often say when a man speaks, then they listen to him, when a woman speaks, they look at her first, and then they decide whether to listen to her. So it's on the trail of all of what you said, I absolutely agree with you. So these are the stereotypes we're talking about, and exactly the president is constantly scanned through what she looks like, and not what she said, but not only her, but we do, so it's unlikely that some of your colleagues call you here at HS di seko, etc., so there are such inappropriate ones, Sabina laughs, but she knows well, but when a woman raises her voice, she's hysterical, but when a man does a little bit of that, she says, then it's attributed to his temperament. So, I think it's clear to everyone, stereotypes and sexisms are present, but we're not going to give up changing them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146117	Thank you. If we can figure out the same thing statistically, there are 80% of women in the assembly right now, all together if we add it up. Before further notice, here, go ahead, individual debate, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146118	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to read the following words as an introduction to this debate on equality between women and men in Croatia. The puppet state is a nominally sovereign entity that actually controls foreign forces. The puppet state maintains external labels and features of independence, such as names, flags, anthems, constitutions, laws, passwords, but is in reality the authority of another state that has brought power to its hearer. That is exactly the situation we currently have in Croatia. So, in Croatia, we have in power a Brussels man, who was sent here from Brussels. In the same way, the second listener, also president of Brussels, was sent to us here in Zagreb to rule our country. Why am I saying this? Because this authority nominally advocates equality, namely equality between women and men, however, the question arises, what kind of equality and equality of puppet rule do we have for women in Croatia? So I'm going to tell a concrete number. Until the pension system reform, women worked until 62, and then they could retire without a pen. However, the puppet power not only increased the retirement age by 67, but equalised the retirement age for both women and men, so that earlier men from 65, I said women from 62, and now in the spirit of equality and equality, both are going to retirement at 67. The question arises is, is this the kind of equality that men want in Croatia, whether it be men or women? I sincerely doubt and want to point out that this very false equality, forcing this story of equality, actually had an economic background and background, whose goal was to de facto work to death. This is what the puppet government offers to the Croatian people and what is interesting, which is indicative, and which proves that Croatia is managed from the outside, is that the decision to retire at 67 years did not even make the current government, but rather the previous, SDP and the irony of fate, HDZ then opposed the SDP proposal, and today HDZ supports the idea, while the SDP is nominally opposed. However, when I spoke to HDZ and SDP representatives, they actually said that they personally disagreed with the work until 67, and that this is actually a request from Brussels, namely that foreign power, a foreign government, which de facto governs our country through democratic puppets that de facto have power in our country, bring laws contrary to the interests of our citizens. The question arises, should we have greater evidence than to manage the country outside so that Brussels decides when we will retire? I believe that there is no and that all of this, all of these fairy tales of equality, equality, equality, etc., actually fall into the water when it comes to the real intention of the Brussels legislator who pushes such an agenda. So it's up to us to even the age of retirement, but not in a way that now both men and women go to retirement at the age of 62. Or let's say it's made, okay, women go 62, men are 65, so now we're going to equal each other's retirement to, say, 63.5 years. No, this is about a retirement age for women rising by 5 years from 62 to 67. Is that equality, is that the equality women in Croatia are looking for? The more you look at where all the jobs of women are, you will actually see that work up to 67 years for many of them will be unsustainable, they will have to retire early and will therefore be retired. So the power that deura claims to be for women, to protect them, to represent them, to love them, to love them, to appreciate them in reality, to degrade them, to make life more difficult for them, and to impose on them as I said work, to work that I cannot accept until 67 years old, and ultimately, that same government is penalizing them. I call on the Croatian people to open their eyes, to realize that the government is making a fool of him, a sucker, not to tell Generalić that they want to work from the Croatian people in a figurative sense because man was a naive artist, and here is the Croatian government treating all of us Croatian citizens as suckers and even convincing us that she cares about us. And as much as it costs, here's today my colleague Branimir Bunjac posted a video from Varazdin, a man who sleeps literally under a bridge in some ruins in Varazdin. And the question of course, does this government offer him a beautifully equipped, newly decorated apartment? Of course not, for free use. Why don't we tell the homeless the puppet authorities don't give housing, why don't they take care of them? The answer is that the puppet government listens to foreign bosses, and foreign bosses say housing should take care of not domestic homeless people, but migrants from third-world countries. And while domestic homeless sleep in shelters, by trams, buses, stationery, abandoned ruins, puppetary power in the name of human rights gives rights, in this case housing, to people who are not our citizens at all, who have never lived in our country. And even plan to move them, imagine which agenda, meaning the people's plan to move, go to Turkey to pick them up and bring them to Turkey from some migrant camps here in Croatia. Imagine. Like, say, the puppet government doesn't go to some homeless shelter in Zagreb, say, and here's the people we have apartments for you. What am I trying to tell you? The social sensitivity of the puppet authority to its own people is a lie, the equality offered by the puppet government is also a lie, and what you present to us here, I would dare say, this report, is also a set of data that does not actually speak the essence, and the point is that we live in a state that is not free, which is in debt slavery, which has credits that have no place to come back from, and just because the state as an entity is not free so as we as its residents can't be free. Or if the state is in a state that is deprived of sovereignty or has limited sovereignty, it is also reflected on us as citizens, and therefore on the family or rather on the one within the family of the mother, father, children, etc. who are increasingly and more often forced to leave their homeland. These problems are unfortunately silenced in Croatia, so it is my duty to raise my voice and to oppose such a policy and such an agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146119	We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146120	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will return to the subject, and this is the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2018. So you all see that our composition at this point is that we have more women sitting down than men or colleagues, although when you see the assembly, he is still something different, which shows that our colleagues are not very interested in this report, but that's one of the stereotypes that we have to fight. Each of us in his working and life span met with different things. I've graduated from college and I've always actually worked in a man's world to say so, obviously I'm doing it today. So maybe just part about the media, the countless times I've been what on radio shows, which on TV, once I was on one radio show, and maybe I was talking 5%, 95% were talking to my colleagues because those 5% I only said when one of them breathed in, and then I did something when he was inhaling to say it. So it's that stereotype that women talk a lot more than men do. I think the attorney general in her opening presentation compared certain hours and certain speeches, so we can compare that. Also, I have to admit, I remember very well one situation when we were receiving certain employees, and then I came in the middle of it all, and maybe a little rougher young woman who was asking, you have children, and she's so shy, she looked at me in her head, and she said I have. I say you misunderstood me, that's your advantage, not your fault. So, she probably faced countless times with that question and I kind of really think that for that job it was an absolute advantage rather than a flaw and that to do everything. So, on both sides, you're facing a series of things that talk about gender equality. I would like to say one more thing, therefore, that is to say, in the spring of 2018, one directive relating to the EU, which is on equal terms in terms of bringing professional and family life into line, that the fathers who need to go on maternity leave and must necessarily go and have the means to be provided. On behalf of the GLAS Club, we have made a proposal to amend and supplement the law with the idea that the Republic of Croatia should be one of the first ones, so we will have to coordinate there and we have no objection that even the ministry says no funds are provided at this time, so when it is secured, it is important that this provision be in the law, but unfortunately the resolution ministry, although the State Secretary is not there now, has already answered and said that they refuse because I do not know for what reasons. If only it was him, if only when he was at the plenary session we could go to another reading, so we could make a deal. It is an obligation we should have, but not because it is an obligation, but because it has been shown that from the earliest age of life fathers and mothers should participate equally in raising their child and not be neglected, in classical cases they are fathers. So it's one of the norms that could have proved to be good and something that would really go in terms of it because when you're a little bit résumé all of our discussions, we're basically all in favor of more or less, with a few exceptions we support your office's report. We're talking about what the report is, we're talking about what needs to be changed, and we're all talking about changing stereotypes all the time, that we need to change these classic divisions that have been divided you know, they're divided in heads into men's and women's jobs, they're divided into that, I studied years ago, then, let's say at Engineering College, the girls were the exception, they were wearing them like a little bit of water in the palm because there were a couple of girls in the whole generation. When I went to study enrolment on ETF, it was today FER was something girls in less cases did, today it's not like that. So, some things change, some things change, and in education, it's going to take a long time to change and things that are related to work. It's logical that smaller pensions, that women have fewer pensions if they have less salary, can't have a higher pension if they don't have a higher salary, but even that tendency to automatically hire women in a less paid place is that they know that women will agree to it and that are some things we have to take care of and we really have to fight with our own activity, but we need to start from the earliest, so really, fathers and mothers are taking part in parenting the child. Sometimes when a man takes maternity leave, then in this one society where, he looks at him, you look less paid than she or anything, which is actually, because when we get back from the earliest age, then there will certainly be some more results. You have also stated in your report the topic of national gender equality policy, which was adopted in 2011 and 2015, and you have made it clear to you that a new strategy should be developed and adopted and that additional financial resources should be provided for the continued implementation of the measures. So, at this point, I am absolutely sure that it is necessary to draw up a new strategy, and together with this strategy, it is also necessary to draw up an action plan with which action plan will be seen and the part needed to finance because we need to be aware that these are things, that these are measures that need to be financed by the Republic of Croatia's budget, but also from the local budget and to insist that when the counties bring their budgets into account as well. The whole job can be done only by mutual cooperation, that mutual cooperation can only be with the relevant ministry because you basically through your report say we noticed it, that and that, and the one who has the tools in his hands, the one who has the ability to change something is the Resolute Ministry and always the question is why it's so slow, why it's not more active, why it doesn't change some situations, why it should be, the last one was to save me, so sometimes when there's one action that causes great media attention, then we all get involved together. It's a job that the ministry needs to do on a continuous basis. We have equally certain signals that we have in the ministry a rule that speaks to the protocol of dealing with victims of violence, and then there you have it, in that rule is hidden, hiding, and something where there's actually always the responsibility of the victim. So, it's one of your stereotypes, you're a victim because you want to be, and you see from all the reports that the victims happen to families, that if something happened to you, women are having a hard time talking, they're having a hard time talking about shame to the environment, they're talking about their own children, they're ashamed of their neighbors, they're ashamed of a series of things, so that's something we really need to take care of, and we need to change. For this to be done together, you as a lawyer, you just come and say I noticed it, that and that, the shifts are here and there, as you said you had better co-operation with the MUP, but that co-operation that this report and the result of this report should be seen in strategies, action plans, laws and rules adopted by the RES ministry because they have, therefore, the leverage, the ability to adopt laws, have control or control over individual institutions but also have all the tools in their hands because they have their own budget item from which items from the budget can be shown that the activity is related to each area and with each action. So what can improve your report is talking about the reality that, we want to improve this reality, that only to improve this reality can actually make a ministry that I think needs to be woken up as quickly as possible not only at a time when you have certain media people who get attention and then point to something but must wake up and some things do continuously, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146121	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. She's my first colleague, Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146122	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, you were talking about parental leave and actually parental leave can be when we talk about it, then we can talk about one demographic measure, it's especially said, so demographically, but on the other hand it's also a question in this context when we talk about gender inequality, then actually the area where women are definitely cut off because in those 6 months. They're actually getting a smaller fee, and that's why they're damaged when they retire. What sounded especially to me this year, it was right before the European elections, the resolution minister said we will raise parental fees for the other 6 months. but for the year, 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146123	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146124	Thank you very much. Comrade Alfirev, it is always so, especially in the year before the elections because we will listen to any promises and any false hopes but let's go back to the real world, so the problem with demographics is the problem in Croatia. So couples decide to have children later on, when you see little, so there are fewer and fewer children born but those children are getting later. But that part I purposely spoke of was actually that equality in raising a child's father and mother. I saw a study done by the Swedes when they asked the children, and the children were supposed to line up with someone they loved most. The day was kindergarten, first she was a mom, so she was grandparents, so they were kindergarten aunts, so there was this guy from cartoons, and he was a father behind that because it was actually the father who didn't take part in the education. If we want equality, then equality is continuous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146125	Thank you. My colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrak Taritash, I was talking about the protocol, you probably didn't hear, so the protocol on domestic violence, he was adopted, he was brought into public consultation during April, I think you meant it so that you were wrong, not to say anything, but that protocol was already adopted after all relevant institutions were involved in its adoption and I think it is good because it is precisely known what purpose of acting at that time of the ministry, which is the role of the police, which is the role of the judicial bodies, but also what is the role of civil society organisation that is actually infrequently appearing as a transport or working in collaboration with the relevant ministry. As far as demographic problems are concerned, it is not only specific to Croatia, it is here, it has not closed its eyes, of course nothing can change overnight, but I will only remind you that there has been an increase in parental leave fees for employed parents to nearly 4,000 kuna and which has not been changed for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146127	Thank you, colleague Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146128	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, so no one has a magic wand, that there's a magic wand, I'm sure they'd use and solve a situation on a few occasions. The protocol of conduct began at a time when there was indeed one broad action, messianically exposed, and then there were meetings and everything else, so that's something that's necessary. What sounded in that protocol is, all the time, the victim's interrogation and the responsibility of harvesting or imposing a partial responsibility to be the victim because at the wrong time you were in the wrong place, because at the wrong time you might have said a sentence too much. My debate was in that sense where it's actually not a good relationship at all and it's one of those stereotypes that we need to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146129	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146130	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. So here, reading these materials, I saw actually that women don't realize how strong we really are in Croatia because 51.7% of women are compared to 48.3% of men. In my professional and personal life, I had no problem dealing with that man-woman, nor was I discriminated against in any way. Here when you look at what women or men's salaries are, it seems to me that a little bit of that interpretation is awkward because I think all the mass of pay has been taken and then divided by sex, which I don't think is good because here in this House, we're not discriminated against by pay no matter what kind of gender we are. And so in other activities, so maybe this is the way they deal with us having lower wages... It's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146131	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146132	Thank you very much. My colleague Perić, I have always more faith in what I have written than in the feeling that I have, so the last one was from the 2015 report, comparing the gross salary of men and women and that is absolutely, women are 7,000 now not reading 700 and something and men are 8500 and these are facts and we all point to that. As far as we're concerned in Parliament, we're really here about these salaries, there's no difference, but I wouldn't say we're just an example. I'd like to say, otherwise, the Assembly's composition is about a little different than it is now, look, there's only one colleague, and when you take here, sorry, no, no, you're there, so when you take the band, I think it's 20 percent of Parliamentarians and the other are colleagues. There's two of us here now. So all this shows, we're here, we're discussing this, where are they?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146133	Thank you, thank you. This ended the individual debates and now, on behalf of the rapporteur, finally, Mrs. President-in-Office. Vishna Ljubicic, attorney for gender equality, here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146134	I thank Mr. Vice-President, distinguished MPs, MPs. Here, after 3 hours of debate on the attorney's report, I'm glad we managed to bring out certain topics, issues, discriminatory areas, discriminatory grounds that we saw through the report, through our activities for the past year. We have to say that the 2018 report is the activities we only carried out in 2018. Today, suggestions or certain criticisms have been heard here, which we should have done through some analyses, cannot be repeated and cannot be analyzed every year in all six areas on different subjects because then it means that we are doing the same for the same. I think primarily about research in the media where we were primarily researching a 4000 sample of articles in which the media treated women victims when it came to all forms of settlements, etc. However, a few years ago when local or parliamentary elections were either being held, and we were doing analyses of information emissions or information emissions, in which way women, politicians are perceived through the presentation or presentation of their political programmes and how they are represented in the media space and given the topics discussed and called for participants in these discussions. Today, a constructive proposal has also been made by parliamentarians and MPs to analyse the recommendations adopted by the government or not adopted by the Ombudsman in her report for the past year. We had one bright example when the government brought one set of responses to the recommendations adopted, at which stage this would be realised, at which point the quarter, in which time period and in which it would resolve a specific recommendation from the Ombudsman institution. So this method of analysis of what the resorient bodies or government in general does, or does or does in part, according to our proposals, is visible from each area. So if we talk about our 20 proposals and the comments on certain legislative solutions, then we say the resolution bodies of the Ministry of Justice for both here and there and that bill adopted or has not adopted the proposal that we have made and, if it has not adopted, we continue to believe that such a problem is open and will continue to be repeated through implementation as an unresolved issue, as stated in this report that the previous Law on Protection against Family Violence has an unregulated area of partner violence and that this is a question that has not been resolved in practice and that it will re-emerge as a problem. The new proposal and the Working Group of the Law on Protection against Family Violence will therefore have to consider this story, we are an independent institution, as I have previously had over 20 years of working in state institutions, I have stood up for a proactive approach. So as an independent institution, I am not waiting for a parliamentary debate through parliamentary committees to be included with its amendments and proposals or in a public debate on certain drafts of the law and legislative solutions, but in the course of the formation of working groups, we are sending our opinions or we are asking for our resources to be used. Sometimes it was accepted, it was not accepted, it was accepted indirectly, sometimes it was accepted directly, but the fact is that the most problems we have with violence and that the resolution ministries that we work for regardless of what government was and which the leader was being changed, we always have meetings with the police director, the new minister, the new minister, the new minister of the centre of the family, demographics and social care, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education because these are, for example, the Ministry of Justice, because these are key ministries that we are necessarily referred to when we give some proposals, some proposals, some solutions, or when we are looking for certain statistics but also on the other hand, they are important to us in solving the status of persons who are, for example, homosexual orientations or change of their identity, some things with the resolution ministries are going faster and some of us have to wait for 5 years, some of which we have to wait for 2 years for a certain public solution, which we have been able to take a certain form of public opinion, which we, which we have not only in a certain way of public opinion. I will mention here that our recommendations that we pointed out were to be addressed, for example by adopting a regulation on the change in the focus of the implementation of safeguard measures, where after 5 years and after 3 ministers, where we pointed out that the focus of the focus on the implementation of the protection measures from the victim is to place on the perpetrator that this is a measure that punishes the perpetrator rather than the victim, ultimately giving rise to the fact that the rule of law has been changed. Here I have to say that the issue of public services through the project that we have received from the EU, we have to write a project and compete and implement these funds, for 2 years we have talked about harmonising family and business, and through this we have gone through the local community, how important it is to finance public services and homes, kindergartens, but we have also worked with a restoring ministry where there has finally been an initiative of extension and kindergartens and living rooms, etc., where we think we have raised it to a national level. I also have to mention here that for years we have been looking for feedback when we give a warning that there has been a failure in the work of a state institution, each of them, the head of each of these institutions or of every CZSS or police administration or management, must give us feedback on what they have done to warn persons who have made a direct failure to work and how they will respond. So this is feedback that must be and so far we have no way to say, ignoring or refusing that such information is not being delivered, so we insist on control or self-control, self-assessment and that is to say, penalization by the leaders of the professionals who have failed to work. Somewhere in terms of tight procedures, so warnings, collective education, and this initiative now by the rest of the ministry when it comes to the CZSS, I think it's going in that direction, and I think we missed it, so inside the system we recognize it's a weak link and we detect it and we go towards one prevention that these situations don't happen anymore. When we talk about county committees for gender equality, they are very important and important to me, we are the only defence institution that doesn't have its own offices at local level, and I didn't even insist on establishing them because there are already mechanisms that have been established under the 2003 Law on Gender Equality, so there is 16 years of this possibility of establishing county committees that have 21 with the city of Zagreb, with some of them I have better cooperation, with some less cooperation, depending on how the local community itself has defined how it will perceive the constitutional principle and how it will implement this constitutional principle at local level. I say, in one county, I was a persona non grata, although it was about implementing a European project of almost half a million euros. So it was a period when the principle of gender equality was perceived as world-wide issues and then the institution itself is somewhere at that level. Today we have had the opportunity to hear about the integration of the Istanbul Convention by solving all the problems that citizens have, especially citizens, have at the rural level. So I am visiting the local community and working with women in rural areas and entrepreneurs know how important and financial availability, traffic availability, information literacy, information exchange, political support, understanding of the local community, gender budgeting, including civil society organisations and their engagement in these organisations that can contribute to improving the quality of life of both men and women or families at local level. We know that there are very many problems, but the Istanbul Convention is clear in its content and all those who have read it, so it is necessary to read it, it is a document that speaks of the criminal-infringement aspect of violence, domestic violence and the question of local communities and the neglect or obstacles women face in rural areas, the Istanbul Convention will not solve it. I agree with the problem of implementing the measure or the possibility of a woman going to shelter or staying in a housing unit, that it is a safeguard measure that is least pronounced by the judicial system and then we again come to this judicial system independent, what we can publicly indicate is that consciousness and sensitization is needed, why the distance of the perpetrators and the housing unit is a measure that is least pronounced and why women with children if they are not in their county or city shelter, why they have to change the other county, why they have to change the familiar environment and why there is even greater traumatisation and children, schools, dialects, dictions, friends and all that they have grown up in, means living, it seems to me that it is due to double stigma. Today, it is also said that the role of the Ombudsman should be greater and stronger when it comes to employment measures in the local community. It again seems to me that the Executive Authority is being marred with an independent institution and that for such a thing that is within the jurisdiction of the Employment and Ministry of Labour and measures exist, therefore they are already written, implemented etc., but there are certainly numerous failures in the implementation that we have mentioned in our report, here the Ombudsman institution can be the only one who will in no way participate in encouraging the local community to use or inform persons to be employable. I'm glad you mentioned here the question of the participation of women in sports and this example of the transfer of female sports on HTV where you didn't get the HTV's indication that you came to us, we always get the HRT's indication. This is the problem of the existence of a document which is in the jurisdiction of the change of the Agency for Electronic Media, a list of significant events, which is an old document from 2008 which is filled with discriminatory grounds which we point to in the past meeting of the Agency and this meeting of the Agency. The last call of the agency was considered not to be a discriminatory document unlike this composition of the agency which holds that matter and is ready to make a proposal to produce this document where we have offered our human resources. I'll just mention that when it talks about sports games, it only emphasizes the transfer of senior male team as an important event that national television should promote, so to speak. Women's sport is not mentioned and will not be visible if there is such a document that gives priority to men's senior sport, regardless of whether it's handball, football, basketball, World Cup final or European championship. What I can also point out is that the education system and what I have stated, the need for one respect, regardless of what the basis is for young people and today a bunch of sexual prejudices and stereotypes that are crawling with our materials that we receive and complaints about citizens to whom we have to respond, intervene with both publishers and the restoring ministry, is that it is really necessary to establish civil education or whatever it is called or through curriculative, or as a separate object that our young people would really get acquainted with all the basics of communication, discrimination and prejudice they are faced with and certainly parallel to preventing any violent or discriminatory behaviour needs to invest in the education of professionals especially those who first come to the ground when it comes to victims of discrimination. I'm talking about the police, I'm thinking about welfare centers, and I'm thinking about the justice system. I think here's this little minute I finally want to point out that this report is the final report, and at the end of my term, thank you primarily to my team, this is also part of the team here, we have 16 employees, 6 women including me and 5 men. So we did say office work with the parties, spent in 5 years 4 European projects, 2 million euros brought to the national level, and I believe that that's what we did to this institution, this topic much more visible because if we lived on a state budget that's 8 years the same thing that we could do so many things, this much research, an analysis, the presence at the local level, carry out that there was no additional engagement. I believe that during these 8 years of the institution's work that this issue of the constitutional principle of gender equality has really managed to keep us in one legal discourse and that we have finally removed from the world's discourse and that the question of gender equality today is not a little less important issue and a problem that deals only with problems. Today... Women in society, I would already say that this is a question of social, economic, political importance for prosperity and for the egality of this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I thank you all, thank you for your comments and your positive remarks, the criticisms that have led to this institution always being trendy and always following the challenges we face even if it was 1% of the Croatian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146135	Thank you, too. This also concludes the debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2018 and we will vote when the conditions are met. The Continuation of the Assembly session is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, second reading, P.Z. No. 619. I wish everyone good afternoon. The session was interrupted at 16.14 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-03-0.u146136	Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2018. The applicant is a lawyer for gender equality, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary parent body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 108 for, 4 abstentions reached, as proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Before we move to the agenda, only information on the completion of the agenda of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to inform you that I am on the basis of Article 125(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament complemented the agenda of the 12th session with the following point: Proposal for the launch of the issue to Lovri Kustević, Minister of Administration in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by 43 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We are now going to the first item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, second reading, P.Z. No. 619; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the 2nd reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is Honorable Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP. Here you go.
