ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129707	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Good morning and a lovely greeting to all respected and respected MPs and MPs. At its 10th session, held on 3 December 2018, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion adopting the proposal for a Law on the State Office for Audit, following which the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was held on 30 January 2019. I'm just going to remind you in the national reform programmes, I'm deliberately talking about the plural, because there were several, where attention was drawn to strengthening, the role of the State Audit Office and this strengthening the capacity of the office itself. This final proposal for a law in relation to the applicable law regulates the jurisdiction of the State Audit Office and audit entities through the management of the State Audit Office, the implementation of tasks and recommendations, as well as some criminal, i.e. infringement provisions, as well as the non-compliance of the provisions of other laws with the provisions of this law. The State Audit Office shall plan and carry out an audit in accordance with the procedures set out in the framework of the audit standards of the International Organisation, the Supreme Audit Institutions and the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors. With regard to the provisions of the law, which relate to the implementation of orders and recommendations by audit entities and with regard to the prescribed criminal provisions, it should also be recalled that the European Commission, right in those recommendations, also stated that it is necessary to approach the development of the sanctioning model for non-compliance with the recommendations of the State Audit Office, with the preparation of the proposal, the proposal to amend the existing legislative framework. I'll just remind you a little bit since you are very familiar, of course, with all the reports of the State Audit Office, but the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017 is visible that as much as 31.8% of the order and recommendation issued by the State Audit Office has not been implemented. That figure is in 2016. 27.9%, 2015 of 29.2%. The introduction of a new model of sanctioning audit entities as well as responsible persons, steel, would be sanctioned in case they do not take measures to comply with the requirements and recommendations of the State Audit Office. I will also remind myself that, with the applicable sanctions prescribed by the applicable law, it is prescribed that if the audit entity does not make available the necessary documents on the correction, reports, records, and other information for the purpose of carrying out the audits, sanctions shall be put into effect, i.e. in force. This proposal would, in addition to the following, introduce sanctions from 2 next cases, i.e. if the audit entity fails to submit a plan of implementation, order and recommendation within the prescribed time limit, and if the audit entity fails to carry out the tasks and recommendations carried out in the audit report and in the time limits and in a manner specified in the implementation plan and recommendations. In view of the introduction of penalties for non-compliance with findings and recommendations in this final draft of the law, more detailed treatment after the completion of the audit, with a particular emphasis on the obligations of the audited entity, and a follow-up of the implementation plan and recommendations has been established. Furthermore, this final draft of the law determines that the State Audit Office is responsible for the revision of the Croatian National Bank. The way in which the audit is renewed or carried out is consistent with the opinion of the European Central Bank, which refers to the way in which central banks are audited. In addition to independent external auditors and the State Audit Office, it is now possible to carry out the audits of the CNB and, when determining the scope of the audits, it is noted that the scope of the audit must be clearly established by the legal framework. The procedure should be in accordance with the principle of institutional independence and must not affect the tasks of the National Central Bank relating to the European System of Central Banks. In its proposal for this law, the European Central Bank delivered an opinion showing that the postponement was in accordance with the principle of independence of the Central Bank, including institutional independence. It is also news that the annual financial report of the State Audit Office, which is drawn up under the Budget Law, is subject to an audit carried out in accordance with the audit rules by independent external auditors. In this respect, independent external auditors will appoint the Committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for finance and the state budget. And at the end of my proposal for a final draft of the Law on the State Audit Office, I'm just going to briefly count which are the key or main differences compared to that text of the first reading. Therefore, in order to improve its provisions, certain nomotechnical adjustments have been introduced into the text of the final draft of the law, the statements of certain provisions of the law, in view of the observations of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. Also with regard to the provisions relating to the entities of the audit which are used by EU funds and international organisations and innuendos, and in order to comply with the family law and the Criminal Procedure Act, appropriate corrections have been made in accordance with the opinions of the ministries given in the ordinary procedure before the final draft of the law in the procedure... Also at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Finance and the State Budget, there was also a debate on a single amendment, which we said we would consider and I think we would adopt, but with a check, of course, to be submitted in full, as well as to a specified provision, that it also applies not only to the process of budgeting, but also to the process of rebalancing, i.e., amendments and additions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I will only mention that during the debate in the Croatian Parliament, it is also a proposal for the State Audit Office to obtain the status of an extra budget user. It is not possible to accept this proposal, given that the conditions for extra-accountary withdrawals are not met by the Budget Act. In fact, one of the main conditions for a legal person to be defined as outside the budget user is that there must be contributions and/or revenue in one of the sources of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129708	I thank the Minister, we have 10 replicas, the first is my colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129709	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Ministers are introducing a state audit into the Croatian National Bank, for the first time what we asked for and that's good. However, this is what MOST represented, as requested by MOST, but in Article 13(6), you say, the CNB is not obliged to deliver to the State Office for reviewing the implementation plan of orders or recommendations, which means that you are introducing an audit and that's nice hearing, that's what needs to be done not to love fish and wine fighting, that they are not looking for masters to spend huge money on business, employment as Pharaohs, and that this money is not spent in the worst way. And basically with this Article 13(6), you're killing this all you've suggested. So don't cheat on us. Delete this item in Article 16 Paragraph 6 is the way we're going to do it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] accept this, this way this is unacceptable, this is a prank. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129710	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129711	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'd say you've begun well, but you must also sweeten it a bit. No one's cheating on anyone here, I'm telling you frankly, and I'm making it very clear again. As in those previous proposals which were when individual representatives or clubs proposed any incurring in the problems of the CNB, the revision of the CNB and any other segment should be coordinated, co-ordinated with the European Central Bank. So this bill is also fully in line, this provision as such is required to remain, but I repeat once again, that does not essentially change things. Is this report will also be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, and you will also discuss the reports of the CNB, so all recommendations, all possible calls for such potential shortcomings you will have the opportunity to discuss in and in the reports themselves and the discussions in the reports either of the State Office for Audit, whether the CNB here can be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129712	What kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129713	Thank you very much, the minister injured Article 238 that the read CNB is not obliged to submit to the State Audit Office an implementation plan, a warrant or a recommendation, which means that the state audit absolutely cannot.../incomprehensible/... to the Governor, that he will work conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129714	Comrade Bulj, you get a warning, this is a deliberate violation of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Let's go to another replica, colleague of the bush, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129715	Thank you, esteemed Presidential, Honorable Minister, I think it is clear to you that what you have suggested here is purely to fulfill some form, twice we or three have asked for it, you have refused to review in the CNB or under the pressure of Governor Vujčić that is rejected and now you are putting as a provision for reviewing, but what we have come before us is unfortunate, because if they do not have to fulfill this recommendation, what meaning then the audit itself. It is clear that this is pointless, it is better to throw out, not to deceive nor the representatives, nor the Croatian citizens who expect the institution to be independent, but to spend their business on budget spending transparently.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129716	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129717	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so I will repeat once again what I said and on the previous question, so we are working here on the implementation plan, so we are talking about the implementation plan, all these recommendations, all these potential shortcomings will be recorded and you will be able to discuss them, point to them, and when the CNB comes here to the Croatian Parliament and when representatives of the State Audit Office come. However, I have one more thing to apostrophe, the same provision was in the first reading, and I will remind you that in the first reading of 90 and some MPs voted for, was one abstention and none against, so this provision we did not change is the same as it was in the first reading, the same as it was practically during the public consultation that was conducted in the second half of last year. So there's no change compared to what we originally advocated, so the revision is in the CNB, but at the same time to comply with the European Central Bank. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129718	Comrade Sponza, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129719	Thank you, Mr. President, I've answered the line for two reasons. The first thing we welcome in the IDS is that Article 35 is finally prescribed sanctions for non-implementation of orders and recommendations of the State Audit Office, and what you yourself have indicated has not been adequately regulated so far, because we are the view that order must be and that the rules must apply equally to all. And another reason to point out that we IDS as part of the opposition are willing to support good legal solutions, regardless of who proposes them, and that actually makes a difference with you ruling. And therefore we need not be surprised that Croatia is at the very bottom of the EU by many criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129720	Thank you, well-respected MPs, for this constructive comment and replica, we have discussed and discussed this subject with the State Audit Office, I repeat once again these have been some of the recommendations of the European Commission and, in fact, when a review of all the countries is made, we must say that these provisions in terms of sanctioning as much as we have recorded and noted, in fact, do not exist in all countries that they can say so. On the other hand, however, we are aware that such provisions should be in some way clearly defined, but also the implementation itself as such. So also the State Audit Office in its recommendations and some kind of plan, so let me explain most of all. Therefore, neither the State Audit Office is in the interest nor anyone to make any recommendations within some unrealistic time limits, but still to give some real deadlines, real frameworks that need to be met and changed certain shortcomings and illogicalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129721	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129722	Thank you very much, dear Minister, for what's actually a great illogicality here, the state audit has been doing here the audit and the ministry, we see that certain ministers have failed to meet, they've received recommendations and if they don't carry out those recommendations, they'll probably be punished, right? In the end, the Prime Minister can also sanction the government's work. This is what the governor looks like over all of us. So, over the MPs, the ministers, the prime minister, he's the only one who can't be sanctioned. I mean, I wonder who it is that decides that he's above all else, that he can't be sanctioned, that he doesn't have a single obligation, that there's even one sanction against him, or that they're really doing whatever they want under the mandate, and in the end you as a minister will have an obligation, he won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129723	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129724	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as far as I know, the CNB is responding to the Croatian Assembly, so it has the authority to appoint the governor and his closest associates in terms of the governor's joke, but also to discuss everything that is related to the CNB's own reports. I repeat again, therefore, this whole problem has been led in a clear, open, transparent way to open the possibility for the State Audit Office to revise the business of the CNB, without, of course, affecting the independence of the CNB in terms of the implementation of monetary policy and all on the basis of those recommendations that we have received in communication with the European Central Bank. So I can just repeat what I said to some of the previous replicas, and that is that also the report by the CNB, or the governor and the vice governor, as well as the State Audit Office, you will have the opportunity to discuss and, of course, not only point out but also if you have to submit all the measures you consider.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129725	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129726	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I'm glad you're alive and well to see you here. I'm sorry you weren't here these days when the INA privatisation was being discussed. Personally, I think you were supposed to defend that law. You know what Minister Coric did? He sent two men there to spy, so if they have time, they'll go there and if they don't do anything to anyone. This shows our country's relationship to the institutions. And exactly the state audit is a very important institution in the Republic of Croatia, the state audit in its conduct must be independent and you have ensured it. But what you haven't secured, yet you decide how much financial audit will be, how much finance will be available. In addition, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. However, there are such specific situations in which punishment will actually be impossible to implement. How are you going to punish public companies for systematically not carrying out public procurement according to legal provisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129727	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129728	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I think you know very well that here is my colleague and secretary of state, and we are the only two in the finance ministry that we have right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to stand for this pay phone. And as a rule, you see these two faces, I can say for myself, so from the state budget most of the laws proposed by the Ministry of Finance are here in the assembly and I will always come. As regards this part you have launched, there is also one particular newspaper, which is the part about the availability of finance or the resources of the State Audit Office, so there will be a parliamentary Committee on Finance and Budgets to communicate, that is to say, receive that proposal and forward it to the Ministry of Finance as such. So one rises, I would say an additional level of independence of the State Office itself and that it has, of course, adequate resources or resources for availability, such a valuable, important institution that I think the vast majority, if not all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, as well as the public certainly respects and respects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129729	Let's go to a colleague of the Bund, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129730	Thank you very much, Minister Maric. So I really don't understand the purpose of introducing a revision to the CNB if the EU forbids it. In the CNB, many issues of interest to the Croatian public should be answered, e.g. how it is possible that Governor Vujcic, who has a net income per year of approximately 100,000 euros in the property card, has no property whatsoever. So he has no apartment, no savings, no shares, no vehicle, no movement whatsoever, so he really seems to be the poorest man in the Republic of Croatia. Even some man who works for a minimumer has some property, this man has absolutely nothing. Here's an interesting question that should be answered, and it seems that by applying this law, we will still not get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129731	Let's move on, colleague of Sladolev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129732	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, only one piece of information, so MOST did not vote in first reading for this law, so the only representatives in the Croatian Parliament were us who did not vote. And I have one question about whether, when you were making this law, you used the experience of some other countries, for example. Hungarian model that's much more restrictive towards the CNB, means Hungarian model? Because we have a mantra all the time to protect the CNB here, so it's an independent institution. And we have other examples, European examples that it's not like that. Well, here's one question why can Hungarians and we can't?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129733	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129734	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, so just a short answer, we have seen experiences and other countries, you mention Hungarian, we have seen very well what is also in the Slovenian model. So each country has and some call it its specificities, but a good part of the countries including this Slovenian example that we're talking about in about this way defines these provisions that I've told you about. So there is, very clearly, and that is what I have said in the introduction, in the case of such bill proposals when you have to consult and the European Central Bank, when the European Commission has its own kind of desire and will to have insight into the very problem of the law and then normally look at some international experience and look for what is the best solution for your needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129735	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129736	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Maric, CNB, its founder and its owner is the Republic of Croatia, it stands in the CNB Act. You have this law in a special head, Chapter 4 which does not exist in the old law separated the CNB from all other entities in the Republic, gave it special rights, you have actually realized Mr. Vujčić's dream of being a God who walks the country in the Republic of Croatia. And watch out for absurds now. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So administrative business, real estate, movables, so the revision will watch how many cars there are, how many pens, chairs if we look at any other bureaucratic office, as if the CNB doesn't have any specificity to check, therefore, this law and so on. Entering the CNB is just a farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129737	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129738	Your Honor, when you already mention this private head in the law itself, there are lawyers and some interpretations that already in the existing law, they write the jurisdiction of the State Office for Auditing that according to the existing law, the CNB already falls, because it is among other things one of the institutions which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia. But there are also lawyers who ask and say that if we really want to have the unequivocality of the law, then it should be particularly emphasized and, as such, we put this particular head on. As regards the revision, so here we are talking about the revision of the State Audit Office and prescribed what it audits, on the other hand, you have a commercial audit which also audits certain matters of the CNB and the third segment is the part whichever you want or do not want to show, but that is a fact, Croatia as part of the EU is also part of the system of European central banks, so the independence of the CNB is among other things in this Croatian Assembly as such voted, so that part of monetary policy management is not subject to the revision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129739	Thank you. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129740	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, a few things. First, some of the colleagues said that the State Office should be independent, changes to the 2010 Constitution, it is free and independent, so many colleagues. The second thing is about sanctions for the opinion and recommendations of the State Audit and should be commended for the adoption of the final proposal for this law. The third is in the end what I meant to say but you actually said why the State Audit Office can't get the status of an extra budget user related to the Budget Law or to the incomes or contributions that it has to have and it doesn't have. And what is very important, we are a member of the EU and the President of the Parliament asked for the opinion of the European Central Bank on the amendments and additions to the Law on the CNB and the Law on the Office of State Audit as early as April. Since that opinion is over, here, you can only make me a link to that opinion of the European Central Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129741	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129742	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing, you're right, MP, there have been several iterations of communication with the European Central Bank, I repeat once again that there have been some proposals that representatives make to the Croatian Parliament clubs on this topic and on this issue. I think that these previous opinions, and finally the one that positively assessed this bill, actually clearly sees that, in such amendments and changes, we actually need to respect certain rules and procedures, we have done this, we have an opinion from the European Central Bank, it seems to me October 26th last year, which has actually confirmed that this bill is in line with all principles and principles, and at the same time it meets what we originally wanted, and that is that the State Office for Auditing and here I refer to what the honourable representative said earlier, so it is further and particularly precise. Now we can talk about nomotechnics, whether it should be a private head or not, but the essence of this law is that this possibility is introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129743	Thank you. Comrade Glasnović, final replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129744	Dear Ministers, each country operates by two principles, regulation and morality. Croatia has neither. You yourself said that robbery down in Uljannik and that shipyard, that any child could pay off $15,000 to Croatia, you said, that I listened to you, and how these terrorists can function up there when we put billions of kunas up, how much, what, and nothing, to anyone. These people are even worse, when you put water in a bottomless glass and nobody's in jail, what about the origin of the property, the Tax Administration, what's the percentage of the gray economy in Croatia? If the CNB is the answer for money flow in Croatia and outside Croatia, what about bank accounts outside, the money has been stolen here since the 1990s. There's nothing going on here, we tap in place, this is just one smoke screen, hundreds of billions of kunas are paid for agriculture, where are these results? I'll take care of it in five days, I.R.S., the IRS, the army platoon, and I'll hit 'em all, I'll steal 'em all, I'll steal 'em all overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129745	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129746	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I do not have the right address or any other institution of this country to say, however, what you have referred to, the Tax Administration, the origin of the property, although I do not have enough time to give you statistical information and all that the Tax Administration is doing, and there will be certain opportunities to talk about some other situations because it is not among other things the subject of this law, but whatever it is, of course, if it is your interest, you will be informed of it even though the Tax Administration is regularly and published among other things various reports from which it is possible to see and, among other things, what it does in the matter of curbing the gray economy, unregistered activities, illegal activities, avoidance of tax payments and that I do not now, but in any case, you also know that it does so well when the Tax Administration and does and performs and reports to the Croatian public, infrequently and here in the Croatian Parliament, it does this fact. Thank you very much./.../Intruder Glasnović:... Why aren't they in jail? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129747	Comrade Glasnović, you are being warned. Don't do that, please. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate, and first of all, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129748	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected and respected colleagues and colleagues. This law is in the second reading, it brings in fact two key topics that we've discussed and today we're going to discuss, one is about trying to implement a revision in the CNB and the one that actually refers to the infringing sanctioning of non-recommendation, the warrant actually of the State Audit. As part of the first act, it's actually hard to say, here from these replicas itself, we've heard the comments, there's going to be a revision, but this revision won't get the effects, especially those effects that would mean a significant change and one responsibility, and that's seen through a part of the payment and even from its own wallet if it's about the governor and the violations he's committed, the failures, the violations and all the other actions he's missed in his action to make the CNB. I'd actually go back to what's most important, and that's the work of state review. So far, we have not been in these discussions, we have heard here about the work of the state review of the remark, there has always been a correct reporting in which key problems have been identified, perhaps some have been more, some have been less indicated, but we can say that the state audit has indicated and all along points to failures, however, these findings that are publicly published have not had any effect. Because we see that in their reports, each time they cite their recommendations, which they did not fully monitor, they did not follow, they did not implement. What we've got, we've got a report after the report, there's an old story repeating, and it was a question of how to stop it. I'd just like to give some examples, here's the latest on the report, so we've got a review and ministries done in the last year. Ten ministries had unimplemented recommendations. We would say, if we start from the head, if, where we should smell the most, this actually shows that if the Government and the Ministry are not going to implement the State Audit recommendations, and they are ultimately proposing in the State Audit Act, they are communicating that some significant change is happening, as we can expect from any lower level that will be controlled. What's important, sometimes just a report to give a conditional opinion, but indicated one of the key problems. It was evident here, from the report by the auditor for the Ministry of Administration, that they should take more important measures in implementing EU funding withdrawal projects planned, so they pointed out that there were 85.6 million kuna in the plan, and then, eventually, when everyone was done, I will say the rebalancing of the reduction, they spent $9.1 million or almost 90% less. And of course the audit said, you can't do that, at first show, we'll be successful, brilliant, in the end you didn't withdraw then, the question arises, the eye, the minister gave the proposal, he signed it, and he'll be sanctioned, I think that, how much, up to 20 thousand kunas, no, practically one salary, which will happen, what, wants to scare the minister of 20,000 kunas because he didn't spend and how we'll actually make him, he'll say everyone's guilty, not employed enough employees, there'll always be some problem, I'm really, skeptical that we'll welcome the time that one single minister is responsible for missing his work, even in the domain of the State Audition's findings. One of the cases, which may be current to us, is related to the Oil, which is also mentioned here the possibility of taking over by Brodosplit. The same State Audit prepared an unpleasant report on the restructuring of Brodosplit. And what have they found? They found there was an irregularity in the realization. What Croatia Shipbuilding and Jadranbrod also stated in its findings, the State audit also found, means that the funds they received for the restructuring of Brodosplit were not used for purpose. And that may have survived Brodosplit, but on the other hand, those plans that were prescribed by restructuring were not implemented. The same Brodosplit, should now enter as a strategic partner in the Oilie and show that it will be good. So, they don't recognize the State Audit report and they think everything was fine in Brodosplit. So, one institution has found, not successful, another institution, they don't admit, and now we're going to say, that's the best strategic partner that will provide 300 million, I'm telling you, there's only going to happen to promise 300 million, when they enter the Uljanik, then like in Brodosplit, they're actually going to clean up everything that can and thus raise the funds and show it as their own share. We're going back to the beginning of some, actually some time when companies were taking over. We can also look at the results of our health system that we talk about a lot. Now here's the mention of the government with 40 million kn hospital in Mostar, but let's look at the hospital that's with me. General County Hospital Vukovar. Hospital of Croatian veterans, which should be an example and a model. What's done? In the latest report, it is mentioned that the 2011 revision of the order for which the supply of medicinal products and medical consumables was not carried out, without the procurement procedure. So they're getting no public procurement. During 2016, the hospital acquired a total of 20, over 23 million of such funds, of which 20 million went without public procurement, meaning a clean order. Is that efficiency? And when we look at the obligations that have arisen, it means the debt of the hospital is over 100 million kn. What are we gonna do? We let it go, transferred to the county, the county won't even blink on it, the state needs to resuscitate, the state's audit will indicate, who we'll sanction, the director will leave before he does, the new one will come, who will then say, but it wasn't mine, it's from someone before, and then we'll politically move those who might get hurt. To not only be that hospital, we have in KBC Zagreb the same case happens. They express their shortcomings, according to the State Audit and these shortcomings, as they will be dealt with, we will then sanction the director who found a great debt in one of the hospitals and say, but you are simply a responsible person. So all I'm showing is that we might not make it through this. We had an interesting political case, a revision of local self-government, so the municipality of Kloštar Podravski just jumped out, so where we have from the chiefs, from HDZ, a nice 12.5 thousand kuna gets a net salary. It's for local self-government, one very solid salary, in that size of the municipalities something over 3,000 inhabitants and a bunch of finds, audits that are actually violations they've committed. So the first payment of the salary that is higher than the base that is prescribed, the spending irregularities for the representation, is not done, means for official travel orderly records. We have gas bills that have been purchased, and there are no official cars all private cars and so on, even taxes, here are the ministers, not paying your taxes, which is an even bigger tragedy. So we have a unit of local self-government that does not settle its tax obligations. So they were paying the fees without calculating the contributions and the other fees. And then what does the chief say? That's a lie. One of the chiefs says the State Audit report is a fake. But they officially admitted it, so he personally believes it's a lie, but the municipality he represents said we accept the audit's findings. And what, I wouldn't punish him, I'd peel him off, that exactly all this is, let him settle it, and then, after that, to determine who's right, who's wrong, and not that the community's been waiting, for years and years what's going to happen. We have now, and here's the arrival of our fellow MP who comes from the Vinkow water and sewerage, colleague Milinkovic, and he's been charged with it, so here's exactly the right thing to do, so we'll probably discuss his immunity, what did they point to? The state audit pointed to exactly water that was not suitable for human consumption, however, did not act accordingly. So they didn't act on it as a company. What did that lead to? If the State Audit had been heard, if it had been taken on time, we would not now have a court case, against a parliamentary representative, and until the moment he was also the responsible person in the wine water and sewerage. I'm saying how many State audits do their quality work, and we have a whole series of examples here. And now what do we have to do? The state audit should approach this, he is no longer a responsible person. The law clearly states the responsible person, but he's no longer a responsible person, he's gone. Shall we hunt them down? Maybe one of them goes to Germany, Ireland, maybe even taxes happen, so we'll go look for them to charge them a few thousand kunas, because they've committed a misdemeanor, they haven't acted on it. Or the new ones who come will say what people say, but it's crazy, you're punishing me, and this one's gone to the Parliament, so he won't be responsible for it. We have plumbing and sewerage in Split, where there's another case, so it's showing up for example. that it is indicated by the audit, that it is necessary to reduce the losses in the network, and they are not to be reduced, e.g. In 2014 the loss was almost 60% what is now also 60% so I ask you what these people are doing, 60% of the water leaks to them before it reaches the consumer and no one gets anything. They're trying something, so if they haven't cut the water loss since 2014, nothing, then we can say they've been doing anything. Now you could list examples like this, it would probably be painful, but it's good from this pay phone, to bring them out, to let people hear, because they're done on the review page, to go in, to read them, I chose in one of the two hours of these examples that I had in the media, something in these reports, just to show how important the State Review is and how important it is that their recommendations are not implemented, but that they are implemented immediately, in haste. If you look at them, in fact, as we're going to scare them, it says that the fine of D20-50 thousand kuna will punish the subject of the audit means that the body that has been audited and the 2-20 thousand kuna that is the legal representative. Now here I am, and I've listed the problems, so it can be the responsible person who made the decision on her own, and eventually we're going to punish that institution or whatever, because they had someone, a fool, a jerk, maybe a person with bad intentions, that led to that situation, and a simple revision finds it. And here we are now going back to what I asked in the reply of the minister, in fact, to comment, we have the governor of the CNB if he does any, in fact, if he doesn't follow the recommendations of paying zero kuna. So he beach zero kuna. He's not charged with anything. He's not bound to do anything. Ministers, if you catch, Minister, here, you don't act on anything, you can be up to 20,000 kuna. So, okay, ministers, one pays, so somehow it can probably get over it, but let's go back to maybe those, let's just see the uniformity of the punishments that we're saying here, for a family holding, if they don't comply with certain provisions, laws, the family holding, the penalty can be up to 15 thousand kuna. For example. You didn't put on, you marked the O.P.G. with a record and you punished up to 15 thousand kuna. And now compare me, the OPG, one panel on the OPG that someone so punished you, on the other hand here, the CNB manages the monetary policy of a mountain of money they have at their disposal, ministers manage hundreds of millions, but here we are somewhere by the penalty. And the ministers, with you for the tax offense, as far as it can be punished, for those easier, a natural person up to 100,000 kunas, for the medium weight of up to 200 thousand kunas. So we hit our economy. Because their responsibility is probably much bigger because it doesn't fill the state budget, and those who empty the state budget, they don't have that responsibility, they can do it. So let's punish those who bring us income, and let's not suffer those who spend other people's money, because why should you make a mess, because it's a political mess. This is the way the economy always breaks and bends. For this reason, Minister, this law has numerous gaps which I hope you will succeed in correcting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129749	Thank you. Let's move on another club is the Live Wall and SNAGE Club and the esteemed colleague Ivan Willibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129750	Thank you, Madam Chairman, today we have the State Audit Office Act on the agenda, this law, as I have already said in my replica, sets out from all other entities of the audit, and who is the subject of the audit, writes to you, those institutions to which the Republic of Croatia is the founder, those to whom it owns or where it has decisive management rights, the same applies to the units of local self-government, where they have those rights. From this old law, where all the entities of the audit were equal, where everyone was joined equally in this law by Minister Maric, I guess in agreement with Mr. Governor Vujčić, lifts up to pedestal CNB, the special article 11 writes about it, where it gives priority status and a special article further 12 and 13 where it is actually detailed what privileged things are, or why and when the CNB cannot and cannot answer, I will look back on that later. I would just like to say here I have a report on the completed, completed business audit of the National Bank of Croatia from '95. The year, March 15, '95. A year, '94. A year, audits were made in '94, '95, '96. 7, 8, 9 and 2000, last for 2000 and made in 2001. Since then, we have been without a revision of the CNB of the key institution of the Republic of Croatia, which I repeat once again, and the owner and founder of, but it is a state in a country that can do what it wants without any consequences, without any real control and without any responsibility or possibility of change, but what you have already left in the laws through time. And this law seems to have been written by Mr. Vujcic, to be even more untouchable and to be even higher than any other institution. If we look at the laws that I mentioned earlier, let's say we go to Article 11, so that clearly stands, paragraph 2, within the meaning of paragraph 1, the revision of the CNB includes now be careful, so activities in part 1 of the administrative business, 2. availability of real estate management, 3. movables, 4 equipment, and that's that. So the state audit, and when it goes to the CNB, it's only going to be able to deal with these four things, administration, movables, real estate, equipment, how many computers there are, how many.../incomprehensible/... how many chairs there are, how many pens, cars, what kind of buildings they're in, and that's that. And that's what the State Audit Office will be able to do in the CNB. And back to one of these '90s audits. So we see what was then revised, except for what I've now cited, except for equipment and property. Therefore, foreign exchange operations, bank operations control and procedures to remove identified irregularities, interest rate levels, calculation method, charge and payment of active and passive interest, study of mandatory reserves, issue of cash registers, arrangements and conditions for the use of mandatory daily liquidity reserves, approval of loans based on securities, settlement of outstanding liabilities to foreign creditors, way of keeping up-to-date obligations resulting from memberships in the IMF etc., etc. You put in this law that only one small part of the CNB is audited, examined, combed, only the irrelevant part of it as if it were some kind of office there a bureaucratic something booked, went through it, hit the seals, to which you brought down that audit, nothing essential that the essence of the CNB would not be controlled. Or it will be under control, but who, private audits, as independent private audits, and let's remember your former company, Mr. Maric, Agrokora, whether there were audits and offices of private auditory Mr. Todorovic paying him to write to him fairy tales, how he is the best entrepreneur, how strong he is, whatever he wants. In Croatia today, if you have money, such as Todorovic, find a private audit, pay to write you that you are the most beautiful bank in the world and the most beautiful and largest company in the world. That's how a private audit works in the Republic of Croatia. We can't know what's true not only in the CNB, but in the INI, in the Uljannik, in Brodosplit, if we don't have someone we trust, we can't trust private audits, we can't trust them except those things either in the INI or in the Sisak refinery. They tend to be simple, they tend to write what they're not. Let's just remember around Agrokor, so some of the audit houses are thrown out of their world networks, world houses are going to fake reports, and that's not enough, but we still rely on that system. It is set out in Article 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The State Audit Office is the highest, highest audit institution in the Republic of Croatia which is independent and independent in work. The highest in its highest audit institution, but you put it under some private audit that Vujčić will agree on what and how to revise. To make things worse, the State Audit only audits what Vujčić doesn't arrange for coffee, so if the CNB doesn't cheat, there are 51 departments, Vujčić deals in private audits you'll be 50, and the State Audit will be the 1 just so that something like this was that. So it's a farce, no state audit goes into the serious sense of meaning into NHB, nothing changes exactly the opposite by detaching the national bank from other audit obligations you've further strengthened non-transparency, removed it from control and from all kinds of control of this assembly, and all under cover here's the National Bank's magazine, we've even made a special article, all the good marketing, the story, and basically everything the opposite. No one will check what the National Bank has been doing in the last 20 years, from which 2.5 billion losses in 2017 and another loss in 2018, and that is the case, and that is not just me. Here it is, the answer to my representative's question to Chief State Auditor Mr. Klesic, be careful what he says about this law. Let's put it this way, Article 11. The State Audit Office draws attention to the fact that this article is the subject of the revision or the scope of the revision in the CNB incomplete, vague and very narrow, very narrowed, Mr Maric, not extended, very narrowed, thus telling you the man who works his whole life in the audit. So Article 12. The State Audit Office draws attention to the fact that the scope of the audit in the CNB is, among other things, conditional on the scope of the audit of an independent external auditor, so what I said. What they won't do is it'll stay for the State Audit Office. Therefore, the scope of the audit defined in Article 11 shall not be subject to State audit if this was the subject or scope of the audit of an independent external auditor, the same thing shall be repeated. According to the provisions, the draft bill is indirectly granted to a private auditor rather than to the State Audit Office, so you are violating the Constitution, so this is an unconstitutional law, which we are talking about here. Clearly, people tell you that more powers are given to a private auditor than to a state auditor, a special status is given to the CNB compared to other institutions. Furthermore, Article 13, Article 13 must be deleted and the entire Article 13 corresponds to the State audit, for the following reasons, the manner of operation of the State Audit Office is prescribed in Chapter 4 and should be identical for all audit entities, regardless of the subject matter and scope of the audit. This proposal puts the CNB in a more favourable position, Mr Maric, in a more favourable position than other audit entities. And then he elaborates on what it's all about, so all the audit entities have an obligation to show, the CNB has the right, not the obligation, that's the first thing. The CNB is not obliged to draw up a proposal for a plan of implementation of orders and recommendations, not required, while all other audit entities have obligations, that's another matter for you. Third, the CNB is not obliged to carry out the tasks and recommendations to which it has objected, while all other audit entities must do so if the objection is not accepted because it is otherwise subject to sanctions. This is what the State Audit Office tells you, in my opinion one of the better ones, if you want the best institutions in the Republic of Croatia even though all our institutions are not exactly envious, they tell you. Here, they expose your law as a favor to the CNB, as a violation of the Constitution and I detest this proposal, we will give a series of amendments, among other things we will lay down a provision that, because of the special importance of the CNB each year, the State Audit Office goes in there and is fully audited. This '95. The year was only the first, the first revision was in the People's Bank, and there were more that I counted 5, 6, 7. This is 22 pages these last pages of 2000 have 150 pages, it's nice inside all detailed, numbered, not chairs, pens and the state they're in, the state of the buildings. As far as the importance of the state audit is concerned, there are only a few examples to be cited, let's say the Brodosplit case, I was already speaking on several occasions about it, Brodosplit 2014 with the agreement on the sale of shares to Mr. Debeljak, was also accompanied by the restructuring plan, and already in 2014 when the revision was made it was found that those ships that were to be built were not built, nor was the money Mr. Debeljak was to give, not a day, only the state gave the money. So in five years, the state was supposed to give a billion and a half, but she gave it all away, in five years, the gentleman was supposed to give 2.5 billion kuna, and he didn't give anything. And the state audit found the situation for 2013, however, the government of Zoran Milanovic paid 200, 300 million despite the fact that nothing was done. The following year, for 2014, a work audit also found that this one does nothing, it doesn't matter, the government of Zoran Milanovic continues to pump money there, next year 2015 the same thing, these continue to pump money, the 2016 government of Mr Oreshkovic, then the audit again determines the situation continues to pump money and so on until Plenkovic. So they've been detecting it for years, warning that somewhere they're accidentally spending money, breaking contract terms, not making ships. And to no one, we give another billion there two, so whatever happens, what happens. Is this a serious state, are you serious governments? And then you're surprised we're where we are, I guess Bulgaria will be threatening us soon. Well, shame can be yours. That's what happened in Brodosplit, the audit was done by Jadranbrod, unfortunately we don't have a detection tool, here's the case of the last INA refinery, the MOL administration says the refinery is unprofitable, the workers who work there all their lives say is not unprofitable, MOL counterfeiting the balance, you still put the INA privatisation law at noon today. Without even detecting whether it's true or not, at the end of the day we don't even have the tools except for the unfortunate DORH to determine it, here today I got the mail being followed by my request, doing a criminal investigation into the situation in the refinery, we don't even have the tools to determine the truth in the refinery. And what we have from Brodosplit and Oilies, we only have that in the part where we're going to audit the budget for the previous year. So we need to strengthen the state's audit, that when we need true data for policy making and budgeting to send it somewhere to determine what's true what's the truth that we can manage this country in quality and not maybe 100 million in loss, maybe 100 million in plus, we don't know, but we'll still pass the law, it's childish, infantile, so it just can't work. Wherever the public money is, there should be a state audit to determine its spending, its efficiency... That is, all of what's already been prescribed here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I'm afraid that this is the detachment of another institution, an attempt to deceive under cover here is being entered into the National Bank, in fact it's not going anywhere but even more determined by that Babylon there to be even more untransparent and to be even more irresponsible to the Croatian Parliament. Expect our amendments, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129751	Now it's the HDZ representative club, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129752	Thank you very much, dear President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office in the second reading which the HDZ Club will support. We had a proposal for this law in our first reading in November last year, and all the club representatives supported this proposal and without a vote against it was adopted in this Croatian Parliament. It was interesting to listen to the previous presentation of his colleague Sincic, who supported this bill as well as all present representatives of his club. And the final proposal for the law has no significant changes at all, I would even say that it is something more quality because it has experienced nomotechnical work, has brought into line with the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Family Law, the Household Act more precisely specificised the various potential stakeholders and users of certain financial means and those proposals and remarks that were made here in the debate or on committees, the reasons for their refusal are well explained. We know that the State Audit Office is defined by the Constitution as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia which is independent and independent of its work. From the very beginning, since she began working in 1994, she has been a very successful business all years, working and highly rated quality of his work. The proposal for this law of the State Audit Office creates assumptions for working in accordance with international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions in which their work will not be their own purpose. Although the objective is to detect a derogation from the adopted rules and infringements of the principle of legality, efficiency, efficiency and economicism in the management of public assets sufficiently early in order to allow for concrete measures and activities to be taken so as not to repeat such irregularities and failures, there has been frequent repetition in the same audit entities from year to year of the same irregularities. Here we can see from the 2018 report even 83% of orders and recommendations to members of local units' representative bodies have not been implemented. This proposal further elaborated the procedure following the completion of the audit with particular emphasis on the obligations of the audited entity, taking into account the introduction of penalties for non-compliance with the orders and recommendations to be made by the Office in its reports. It shall also be prescribed to monitor the conduct of the tasks and recommendations within the prescribed time limit to the obligation for the Office to notify all matters of the competent State Attorney's Office which will initiate the infringement procedure. This is precisely the case in Article 21(7), meaning the final report on the audit carried out, shall also be submitted to the competent authorities when the audit has identified irregularities which may have the characteristics of the infringement or criminal offence. In addition, the fine will punish the infringement of the audit entity or entity to which the order or recommendation applies and, if it does not make available to the authorised national auditor, the requested documentation and information for the purpose of carrying out the audit, as we also know, that the case has been as well as if, within the prescribed time limit, it does not deliver a plan for the implementation of the tasks and recommendations, or if it does not carry out a specific order or recommendation within the deadlines and in the manner proposed by the plan. This will certainly result in the legality of the work of controlled entities, and it is certain that the number of 342 recommendations we had in 2018 will be significantly less and the quality of the same controlled entities that did not do so will be significantly better in the next period. The State Audit Office... so far, the audit entities, meaning we had municipalities, cities, counties, legal entities financed from the budget and the founder of the Republic of Croatia or units of local and regional (regional) self-government or owned by them as well as political parties, independent representatives, members of representative bodies, gets another extremely important entity that we have heard a lot about so far, CNB. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This represents a new task of the State Audit Office, however, that coverage of the evaluation process is the procedure for the revision of the CNB will cover the activities of financial transactions and information relating to the operating costs of the administrative business, the acquisition of management and availability of real estate, movables, equipment, in any relevant respect, in accordance with the applicable rules operating by the CNB. However, the State Audit Office is not authorised to verify or assess the achievement of the objectives and tasks of the CNB prescribed by the CNB Act, as well as the tasks prescribed by other laws and tasks carried out by the CNB in accordance with the financing contract in the EU, the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank. Therefore, in April last year, the President of the Parliament requested the opinion of the European Central Bank on this law as well as on amendments and additions to the CNB Act. Furthermore, the State Audit Office shall not be authorised to grant direct or indirect instructions to the CNB and its bodies and members which may influence or affect their independence. With this law, the CNB does not lose its independence, which it must not. This law and the State Audit Office are subject to review, i.e. the financial report, in accordance with the audit rules, will be audited by an independent external auditor. The procedure for determining the height and content of the proposal for a financial plan of the offices proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under a specific state budget shall be amended to adopt HS. The annual financial report of the Office drawn up in accordance with the Budget Act and its sublegislative acts shall be subject to the audit, which shall be carried out in accordance with the audit rules, by independent external auditors and those independent external auditors shall be appointed by the Board of Finance and the State Budget, and their audit report on the annual financial report carried out by the Office shall be an integral part of the report on the work of the Office. The State Audit Office is the only one of the offices to receive commendation, which has carried out over 14600 audits by the end of last year, of the financial audits of local units, health institutions, Red Cross companies, political parties, independent representatives and members of local unit representative bodies. Furthermore, an audit of the effectiveness of the allocation and use of current donations from the budget of local units, capital investments in primary and secondary schools, the use of external services in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and local units, the implementation of the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, to verify the implementation of tasks and recommendations from previous years. All this is handled and done by less than 300 employees, of which 85% has high professional equipment. According to the systematization, more than 40 employees are missing and truly deserve additional and staff and financial assistance. Of course, the proposed law will also increase the scope of office affairs, and it is inevitable and therefore strengthen human potentials. For this reason, the state budget for this year has provided an additional 1.54 million kn more than last year, i.e. 7.2 million kn more than was spent in 2017. The work of the State Audit Office is ultimately very important for the functioning of the state of all and all its bodies, therefore in conclusion, by this law, the State Audit Office will be able to sanction those who are not doing their job and thus will gain an even more significant role, but their work will also be regularly controlled by independent auditors, while the business of the CNB will become more transparent through the application of this law, raising responsibility without prejudice to the principle of its institutional independence. These are all reasons why the HDZ Club will support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129753	Thank you. We are now going to the Labour Party Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, a respected colleague named Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129754	The Honorable President of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As a lawyer, I belong to those who hold that and the current Law on the State Audit Office is possible for the state audit to enter the CNB. Namely, art. 6th century 2, to read it, under the units of the state sector, units of local and regional regional self-government, within the meaning of this law, all bodies of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, as well as all agencies and institutions and other entities at the level of the Republic of Croatia and the level of local and regional self-government of funding from the state budget or budget of the units and the area of regional self-government. And now I'm in a dilemma. I have already expressed this dilemma in the first reading of this proposal for the State Audit Office Act for the People's Bank. What does this dilemma consist of? First, the dilemma consists of what we have already changed in 2010. 53 The Constitution, in a way that instead of the provision that the CNB responds to HS, a new provision has been introduced, which reads, the CNB is independent and independent and reports its work HS. So she's not responsible to HS. On the other hand, in this final draft law, the State Audit Office enters the CNB with limited action because the external auditor, an independent external auditor, without the influence of the policy and the rest, audits the full operation of the CNB and the CNB, submits a report to HS. The State Audit Office also submits a report to the State Office, in which we will see, if we pass this law, that it has given orders and recommendations to the CNB from that part of the circle in which the State audit can enter in relation to the external auditor and that the Governor of the National Bank, or the CNB, has not even responded to the orders and recommendations. She can and doesn't have to. He's right and he doesn't have to. Unlike all other entities subject to an audit, which must adopt both a plan and a programme of implementation of orders and subject to sanctions and fines. And as a legal person and as a responsible person. So it's a dilemma. It's kind of like a style expression of an oxymoron from which I don't actually see a solution. Or the CNB is independent, independent, has an audit of the external auditor and submits a report to the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the State Audit Office has nothing to do with the CNB, but audits other entities or the State Audit Office in accordance with the existing provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office entering the National Bank. I mean, I said I belong to a lawman who thinks that under the existing law he can go in, but then the CNB is subject to all the rules under which all the other entities in the audit are subject. This means, if an order or recommendation is given and the CNB and the responsible person, the Governor must adopt a programme of implementation of the tasks and recommendations and subject to sanctions unless such programme is adopted and followed by the programme proposed by the State audit. I really don't know how to get out of it. I can accept, at the very least, this club can accept a bill like this, but I think that, if it's not fair, it's not even legal to make an exception in sanctions. If the State Audit Office had already entered this reduced area, it would have given a warrant and recommendations. The final proposal for a law should be amended so that it must adopt, under the same procedure, a programme of implementation and recommendations and subject to sanctions. I don't know what the exception is. I really don't know what the exception is. Then we will come to the Assembly with a report from the CNB from which we will read that everything is fine and then there will be a report from the State Audit Office stating that she gave orders and recommendations without even receiving a reply from the governor of the CNB. Because he has rights but he doesn't have to and he doesn't have sanctions. I think that if you are already entering this narrowed-down state audit through this law as a lex specialis in the CNB which is also a law lex specialis then allow the CNB to have the same position as all other entities of the State Audit Office. Therefore, the obligation to adopt a programme, to carry out tasks and recommendations and sanctions unless the programme is carried out, both for the People's Bank as a legal entity and for the responsible person of the Governor. I don't want to read what I wrote on the 3, 4 pages of the debate so I don't make a mistake, but it's really a dilemma, the dilemma is from the Lisbon Treaty, the independence of the CNB, so central banks, the existing Law on the State Office on Audit, which allows us, in my legal opinion, to enter the CNB as well as all other entities and this lex specialis Law on the State Office for Audit, which in a certain way brings, in the extreme line if you want the status of the State Audit Office, which is at the very least the largest audit institution of the Republic. We question the final line of her status and her dignity. As far as the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Club is concerned, we will follow closely the debate on this final bill, and, if necessary, we will also make amendments. Even if I were personally asked myself, I would wipe out the complete chapter 4, complete chapter 4 of the law, because it actually challenges the Lex specialis of the CNB Act, contracts that the Croatian state has in relation to EU accession. And I'd delete that chapter 4 completely, and I'd delete that item from the law, it seems to me to be 5 or 6 which says that the state's audit is entering the CNB in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 4 of the bill. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129755	Thank you. It is now up to the SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129756	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we have today the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, and here we can say on behalf of the SDP Club that there are certain steps, positive in strengthening not only the independence of the State Audit Office but also their financial, financial plans. There was a debate on the Committee on Finance and Budget that now the proposal for a financial plan and what the Minister said would also change, that it would come from the State Office, or the Committee on Budgets and Finance. We have nothing to do with this problem unless it's some sort of phenomenon that's going to happen in the future. That's what we're all together, no matter what club MPs discuss. We believe that in this context, this exception can be made for the State Office for Audit, but it would not be good for such exceptions to start happening often in the future now, so that various offices and various different institutions, it gets a little too much wave, and then, in fact, that some kind of budgeting control will reduce when some decisions are made by the finance minister when proposing the state budget. However, we are telling you, in this context, since it is an institution that is certainly carrying out an important task, there has been a talk here today that there are about 300 employees and that it is getting some new jobs today. That in that context, we can accept it, but that's, that's the exception, when there's a rule in the future and I think it says, that's where you can get our support. Also, the above mentioned means that the power is being extended, today the most we are talking about, the revision of the CNB and I see that all the clubs of the representatives, unrelated to whether or not they are supporting the majority, have noticed one thing, which is certainly in this House that should be discussed and we think that when the audit comes with the President of the Republic, and according to the Constitution, she is the first person of this country and when that same audit tells that President of the Republic, according to our orders and recommendations, you have to correct it and then the President of the Republic, says that, I will respond and correct and will be in line with that. So we don't see any possibility and none to do a certain exception, as my predecessor here said the governor and predecessors and colleagues from the Most, and that in this debate we try to give support to the Government of the Republic, that although I say, most things are useful and good for the State Office for Audit, to give them some kind of a unique position from this High Parliament, that this is the position of all clubs of MPs, to move in this direction, and we think that this will be a real benefit and this debate, means that, not only that we accept something that the government presents in this House, but in the debate itself, that we have been very specific and that there have been very good objections and that it is actually in this context, and this Parliament itself has a function to give concrete suggestions. And we believe that if this can apply to the President of the Republic, if this can refer to the President of the Government, who are elected, who are actually proposing certain laws, we certainly believe that this should be applied to the Governor, who, tomorrow, in the future, is, because this is not about names, this is about the function of the Governor, or the National Bank, which this House, which gives him certain powers, gives him the authority to have incomes, because this House is the authority that will be the incomes of the CNB, which and no one will enter the way of managing monetary policy. To be clear here, no one here is talking about international reserves, no one is talking about how to enter their independence, but here we are talking about the operations of the CNB, just as this applies to all those who are subject to the audit. The audit, the State Office for Auditing, will certainly have revised its financial reports, it is an additional step in saying that the audit itself will have a revision of certain financial and their reports and it is a certain control mechanism which is certainly welcome, if this was the State Audit Office itself did not have any objections to it, in this way the external auditor will also be applied to them, as these same external auditors apply to the CNB, and we know when we talked about the Law in the audit, that they have been defined, because then we seem to be in line with the directives, that these audits last 7 years. So it seems to me that these independent auditors can carry out and audit the State Office for the revision in this particular period of 7 years. Here too, as the Minister himself said, that around 30% of these recommendations are going to be put in place, that there will be a very serious need for the necessary resolutions, and therefore, the need for the necessary revisions of certain documents are not to be made. Look, what level we're reaching, that even so in detail, we need to build it into law, that there are certain entities, that they don't want to communicate at all with the State Audit Office. This is what we are very concerned about, because it would be normal for the State Audit Office to request certain documents, that it is normal for you to deliver this to him, especially because the law provides this, but it is likely that there have been such cases in practice where it has not even been communicated with the State Audit Office, so here they have to strengthen that provision, that if you do not deliver, that this entity will be punished with 50 thousand kuna. Also, especially if these recommendations, i.e. legal representatives, i.e. the legal representative of the subject's audit, if he does not carry out a specific order or recommendation from the State Audit Office, that, that they too will personally be punished by 2-20 thousand kunas, and in this context, these two additional infringements will now try to strengthen the office itself, so that, in fact, by personal punishment of these entities, the audit is made important that this percentage of which the minister spoke about about 30% that, in the next two-year, three-year or five-year period, may be reduced. And that's actually the goal, we welcome it, but I say you see how much more work has to be done in the legislative regulation, and also in the operational part of the State Audit Office, in order to reduce that amount of percentage, recommendation and order. So we have no larger objections on behalf of the SDP Club on this Law of the State Office for Audit, except that what all the representatives clubs have pointed out here and we believe that if something applies to the President of the Republic of Croatia, to the Prime Minister, to the President of the Parliament, there is no reason why the governor in which he submits his reports here, that he also exists a certain control mechanism, I am not talking about someone being punished, but it is also some control mechanism, and we are not leaving it to the Croatian Assembly. Because the Croatian Parliament can discuss some... recommendations, but only to this level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It could also be... So let's go in step two, let's get it back then and from the Prime Minister we can say, look, if they're something in all of the State Office.../incomprehensible/... notice, let's maybe discuss them here, too, when we're talking about this state audit, but let's not punish both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament, let's just even it out, then let's take a step back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's do, if we're going to do that, then let's take a step back, and it doesn't really depend on those who pass the laws, which they suggest, that they have, at one treatment, and those in the other, especially because this control review doesn't apply in the way of managing monetary policy. Especially because that is why we get the opinion of the European Central Bank several times, and it is a positive opinion of the European Central Bank, but on the other hand, I think, now the question is whether, in this context, we can take that step or return both the President of the Republic and the President of the Government and the President of the Parliament as the 3 most important persons in our institution-run society, to return them to the governor level, and then to bring them back to some criteria. Here, so we have no major objections, we are discussing this proposal, we are glad that most clubs have reached some agreement about it, and depending on how the government will show itself on these proposals, so we will be represented in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129757	Thank you. Now it's the club of representatives of the HNS and the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129758	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates. Here, today we are discussing the final proposal of the State Audit Office Act. The HNS Club supported this law in its first reading. We'll support him in another. However, let me, through a few sentences, refer to this law itself. I'm going to start right from the State Audit Office, as an institution that we've all agreed we still have confidence in, that all the reports that have been coming here to HS have been unanimously adopted, that there have been no specific objections to the work of that office. It is therefore necessary to provide additional appropriations in the budget in this office, and it is envisaged that 63 million kn or 1.5 million kn may be secured in 2019 more than expected for 2018. We heard that there were about 300 employees employed there, that the systematization overlooked 340, that there were still 40 employees missing, but I also have to look back at their working conditions. We are aware that they control the way public property is managed. That their reports are important to the functioning of the system. And that their work is really demanding and that we should have the highest quality people there. As much as they have salaries, I think they are underpaid by those auditors who work at private auditors' houses, so we know how to do it and we need to work against it and we need to increase their salaries as well as other conditions so that they don't get into the State Office for reviewing their experience to perfect themselves in this demanding business and then move into private audit houses. We need to keep these people and we need to think carefully about which way and which is the appropriate salary given these material rights and additional means to be provided because, I say, every commendation for our club's work so far, but for them the praises from this place went to every one of their reports. We've got a new way now. By June, the State Audit Office shall draw up a draft financial plan and deliver to HS and the Financial and Budget Committee. Afterwards, the Committee approves the proposal or has, normally, its observations and agrees and directs it to the Ministry of Finance. Here, we've already heard there's a newspaper and that from now on the DUR reports will be revised by an independent auditor. There's been a lot of talk about the CNB review. Another additional job, another expertise needed in the DUR is this new obligation, which is the revision of the business of the CNB. We were talking from this place about how we needed a revision at the CNB. I don't think there was anyone who didn't agree with that, but there was only a questionable way to revise it and to comply with the legal rules. So this problem is now a regulated article. 11, 12 and 13, where Art. 11 states that the subject matter of the audit in the CNB is the process of assessing whether activities, financial transactions, information relating to operating costs in part of the administrative business by obtaining, managing and making available real estate, movables and equipment in all respects are in accordance with the applicable rules according to which the CNB operates, or whether programmes, projects and activities are implemented effectively, i.e. according to the principles of economic, efficiency and purpose. I think it's in that article. 11 In fact, all that we have communicated here is whether they spend the resources materially which they have within their administrative business, not entering part of monetary policy, effectively, with the attention of a good economic operator, economically because there have been various examples here which are not exactly, which are precisely what I think this will be regulated. At the same time, we ensure the control of the business of the CNB by the State Audit Office but do not enter monetary policy, which is in accordance with Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and Article 71. The CNB law. We have also heard that the European Central Bank has also given its positive opinion on this bill. However, it is a little unclear for us at the club, in Article 13(6), which states that the CNB is not obliged to deliver to the State Office for the revision of the implementation plan. We understand that we are discussing this report in this House. We also know how to choose the governor, it's all clear. However, we are interested in whether there are other specific reasons why this article should be considered and why it is not treated by the CNB as well as any other subject matter of the audit. So they should also make their own plan to carry out the order and unless they do so, they also apply sanctions to it as well as to everyone else. If we exception them, I believe that we are thus degraded by the State Audit Office in relation to the CNB. So I'm saying, maybe there's some other reason we don't know, so I'd really like to hear it if we could get that part straight. And as I have already moved on to sanctions, we really consider it a good solution that, in addition to monitoring the conduct of the State Audit Office, it gives a deadline for removing irregularities because there have often been irregularities found, recommendations being made, and that they remain only as recommendations. So it's Article 35. Infringement provisions where they are mentioned and so far we have had this problem if it is not made available to the State Auditor for the requested documentation and are now still being introduced if no implementation plan and recommendations are submitted within the prescribed time limit and if the tasks and recommendations given in the report are not carried out in the audit carried out within the deadlines and in the manner set out in the implementation plan and recommendations. And as indicated, this is also being delivered to the competent authorities for further action. We will support this law but would really beg the minister if he could only explain to me in his final address this very article, article 6, in Article 13, because I say I do not know if there is any particular explanation for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129759	Thank you very much. We have the next Club of Representatives and this is the Club of Independent Representatives on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129760	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do in a brief debate to say a few things that seem important to mention in and it's about the Law on the State Audit Office. So the final bill. Before that, I would agree with the predecessors that the State Audit Office has done an extremely good and important job of starting there if you remember the revision of the conversion and privatisation procedures to many of the other reports it has filed in this House. What goes beyond the frameworks of the State Audit Office itself because the safe treatment of their findings because it seems to me that other institutions have failed in this regard, in many cases where irregularities have been identified, nothing has ever happened and that people's rocking hills have happened, a mouse has been born. So I am the law on, the final bill with regard to these CNB remarks, the revision of the CNB is probably made in accordance with the positive regulations, so it is, it has tried not to jump out of what the role of state audit is and what it is possible to do at this point and what the state audit has done so far and possible to do in accordance with their powers. So on that side, the law is good, but let's put it this way to look under the hood a little bit, let's see what's not quite solved. Therefore, the State Audit Office is an independent body, but this independent body still needs money for its work, it also needs human resources. And what we can see is that this independent body doesn't have enough money or enough resources and this is mentioned year by year in the reports because the scope of their action is extremely wide, their action is extremely important, it can save a far greater amount of resources than they spend in their work. Someone, I think a colleague in the previous debate mentioned that everything should be done as well as the good staff of the same state office would not leave because here we can say in a graphic way, this bill will have two independent auditors controlling the state audit, and the state audit will control the CNB, and the CNB should control the business banks just so the circle doesn't close, you know, so that they don't even start to control on this side. I'm not saying it's a case, but there's always reasonable doubt, money finds its ways very easy. And then if the representatives of institutions that both this Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints to control something and are paid, go with, as he once said here in the State Attorney's report, go to Fiat Tempro, you know Fiat Tempro is a pretty old car, go to people whose kids have allowance bigger than their salaries, then it's a little questionable. So these people need to be paid, they need to be rewarded, and they need to be given clear powers. And that may be the main objection of this law and in this case to the CNB, but it's not just that. State review does its job well, does everything, and then what, hang it on the fence and fuck it up, right, there's nothing to be done about it except praise that the State Audit has done its job well. And the institutions in this country don't even touch when they're doing their job well if they don't start to get in the way, if they don't start hanging around the legs of those who try to do something in the fog. Just look at the review, I think the last revision I've seen is six public companies, you know what it says there, it's a little amazing, and nobody in this country cares. We go through public procurement, through the hands of a girl of great money. Well, there are such public procurements that a good part of it is costed by a direct contract at all that the Public Procurement Act is not respected. And that's all the State Review finds and then no one does anything about it. In that direction, I believe that the imposition of sanctions against those who do not provide a plan for the implementation of orders and recommendations within the prescribed time limit and those who do not carry out those tasks and recommendations will be punished by 2000 to 50,000 kn, the audit entity. So here is exactly what are audit entities and responsible person or legal representative 2000 to 20,000 kn. Are those sentences too high? Now we come to the problem that we could peopleally say "mix pears and apples", not every finding is the same, not every institution is equal and it's not all about the same amount of money starting from small municipalities to so I told public companies whose purchases are made in billions. Therefore, the intensity is good, those who systematically violate or comply with the legal provisions should be punished, but only that Article 35 will not be able to resolve this because Article 8(3) defines all State audits, which carry out the tasks and paragraphs 1 and 2 respectively, relate therefore to the verification of documents, documents, documents, internal control systems, accounting and financial and other procedures and other records to express their opinion on whether the annual financial reports are drawn up in accordance with the relevant financial and reporting framework. Article 2(2) of the revision and assessment procedure whether the activities of the financial transaction and information are in any relevant respect in accordance with the relevant regulations governing the operation of the audit entity. Any accountant will say that there is always a trail of money, but then we go to paragraph 3. The audit and evaluation process shall be carried out if the programmes and projects of the activities of the audit entities are effectively or in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency, relevance and can be improved. We've had a review of the operational competitiveness program lately. So funds withdrawn from EU funds. There was a series of remarks found by the State Audit, which concerns several audit entities, so several ministries. It's actually unclear to me, and I don't think it's possible that they'll all be punished if they're determined and how that efficiency can be clearly determined because they say, listen, we're not withdrawing the funds at this point because it requires a certain dynamic performance of the works, so next year we'll charge for it, so they're prolonging the tender because our applicants aren't ready and so on. These are things that are quite stretching and hardly only this provision of paragraph 35 will solve it. And why am I saying all this? Minister, I said and I really believe it, the finance minister in this country should be elected as president of the state, by direct elections, to have all the powers. That he has the power, that he can say it so he can't do it anymore. What bothers me, you are not in this law except in the part where you approve, you give your opinion to the Assembly Committee on the financial plan, but you are no longer mentioned here in this law. The Minister of Finance is an extremely important person and these laws should even be mentioned in some coordination. As regards the CNB, of course, I agree with this work and my colleague Lalovac was saying, if it is defined what the audit is doing in the CNB and clearly in Article 11, so in which goals are not directly achieved and the tasks laid down by the CNB Act are completed. Therefore, the audit shall carry out the assessment of whether the activities, financial transactions, information relating to the costs of operating in the administrative business of acquisition, management and availability of real estate, etc., are in accordance with the law and then why there is really no reason not to treat them as well as other audit entities or ultimately, as counterpart Varda said, then the article should be deleted, what they will do there, so they do not have to go to the governor for coffee, they can be found for coffee and thus discuss these problems that arise. And so I don't have much longer, what should be said, Article 10, seems extremely important to me. Before, let me extend the debate a little bit, he says, in determining, this is the finding that came from your ministry, Minister. In determining the amount of fines, this body has taken into account in particular as difficult circumstances that, in particular, it is a matter of committing an act of violation of an exceptional and obvious social danger which is directly... the stability and fundamental meaning of the tax system arrangements with direct socio-harmful contexts for the stability of the total tax system of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Keep your eyes open. As a criminal act directly focused on the tax ejaculation of broader scales, I read only passages, and the deep undermines the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the tax system as a whole, the financial stability of the entire state and endangers the financing of public needs and thus the functioning of society as a whole. And now nothing would be weird, you know what this is about? It is a natural person, owner of a craftsman from Nasic, who did not issue an account to an authorised customs officer for photocopying at a price of 0.50 kn. Why would I bring that up? Article 10, the State Audit Office shall not be responsible for giving instructions and opinions to the audit entity regarding the conduct of operations under its jurisdiction outside the audit procedure. Trust Ministers, more money, equip these people, let them go, let them even extend, to expand, not only to these entities audits that are mentioned, but in general to many business entities in the Republic of Croatia. In this country, people don't have an office or what they'd call an institution to turn to, to say, what they have to, what it matters is what they have to meet. There are no such ones, but they are being hunted, then on those gaps that they once, and in that sense, believe that the units of local self-government, so they don't all intend to break the law or work beyond these regulations, so maybe this article should either be removed or otherwise solved, why not give instructions and opinions unless it requires significant time and money. So this law in terms of the tendency to reduce the number of avoidances, the correction of the measures imposed is good because the introduction of this Article. 35. to punish those who do not systematically because they are good, however, I do not think that they will lead to a final goal, and that is what we all want, to give us a complete administration and especially those who manage public money, to be transparent and effective. But I think with this intensity and of course with this, in the course of the debate about the CNB, we will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129761	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our club, the HDS Club, HSLS and HDSB will support this bill, because we believe that it has certain improvements and that, regardless of all these comments and suggestions made from all clubs that have so far said, it will not be possible to easily avoid, read and give measures to the Governor of the CNB if the State Audit finds any irregularities, because it will then be exposed to a different debate in the Croatian Parliament itself, since this law, in the end of the day, allows for an additional debate on the operation of the CNB and the functioning itself through the report of the State Audit Office. So I simply don't believe that someone would disobey the recommendations and find the State Audits, so that it wouldn't be obvious and give a proposal to measure how to fix, how to improve the business of the institution at the head. The state audit through all these years has done a great deal of work in the Republic of Croatia particularly related to the audits of local budgets, the operations of local self-government units, as from the year since the State audit controls the operations of local self-government units and all those belonging to them, so to speak, companies and institutions of all those who are subject to, in fact, to a more transparent business, a better way of working, and the State's audit in the end indicates the failures and mistakes made in that part and the local self-government units, as well as therefore, the grey ones who are subject to review, improve their business, from year to year, it all has a better shape and there are fewer mistakes, so to say. Of course, there is a lot of work and, of course, there are also problems, because there are situations on the ground where there may not be much of what is happening or what is manifestly happening, which indicates the problems, and then it can be often dissatisfaction and carrying out dissatisfaction with the work of the State Audit, because it may not have noticed those irregularities that occur and which are often referred to by representatives of local self-governments in representative bodies, because most of course this part refers to executive authority, mayors, mayors and mayors. And I think that there would be, perhaps a little bit, to say improve the work of the State Audit on the ground, if a little bit more were to be followed and listened, and perhaps looked at also the capitals of the meetings of municipal and city councils, the county councils, and a little by them to pay attention to what people in these representative bodies say, in those units of local self-government are, who are present there, who give their pain and contribute to improving their work in local self-government. There have been various situations, there will be various situations, and the State Audit will always have work to do because most local self-government leaders want to accept, so to speak, the findings and suggestions of the State Audit as something seen, which was not good that needs to be fixed. There are also, of course, those who are constantly breaking laws, doing certain self-wills, not actually wanting to work on legal methods, but doing so little cowboy work on their own, doing a little bit of unintended spending, not making decisions, spending on the front, and then settling it later, but already after it's been spent, all of this is expensive, something that needs to be sanctioned in any case, in which the State Audit has a big role to play. What is important and important, and what is a message to everyone who is subject to a state audit, is that if someone makes some kind of nonsense that doesn't think they won't be affected by the audit because the revision can come back in a year and for two and three, and then they swim back and forth on the surface and such malversions that they know can happen in the use of public government money. I think that in any case this debate today gives great support to the State Audit Office, that it is considered as a state body that is doing its job well, which should be supported and that in this part of the introduction of a state audit, however, the CNB is in some way opening up that window, that this will lead to improvement and transparency and that one removal of the veil from that institution, and what is important here also in HS to say is the following. We're not investigators here. I don't think of myself as an SS agent at any point as any investigator and I don't think that I'm the one who has any competence in doing this kind of work at all. It is up to us to make laws, to discuss them, and to those bodies that are legally designated to do so is to make this work for which they are paid and for which they are professional. It's up to us to see how they did it again, whether we're satisfied with it or not. This law also allows that part for these reasons, as I said, our club will support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129763	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129764	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, at the end of the debate on behalf of the clubs, just a brief address. What we have heard so far, as well as in some way we can say, and in line with the expectations of a good part of the debate, comes down to the subject and point that one of the respected representatives in the debate within the club and well-absorbed, I can even say that we from the Ministry of Finance, who are also in the assembly of this law in consultation with the State Audit Office, the CNB, the DORH, the other institutions, the ministries, in the regular procedure of the Government, and also consulting with the European Central Bank, with the experiences of some other countries, but here today we have received an additional moment, when we heard in which way and how the audit was carried out, so also the CNB and at which the foundations and points of the 90 more. To be honest, we've Googled here a little bit, we've explored, that law has been in force and at a time when this audit has no longer been carried out. I am definitely not the one who should answer the question that I know at all what was going on back then, but for a few more years this same law was in force, but the state review did not go to the CNB and then the CNB law, and then, indirectly, this DUR Act and all other actions that have been corrected in accordance with these regulations in view of our obligations to comply with our legislation with the EU and after that, this topic, in some way, has been out of reach. This government has decided to return the element of the revision, I repeat once again, which does not affect, of course, any independence, mainly institutional, but any other in terms of monetary policy making, but that this law is put back, that, as I have initially said, as well as the corresponding replicas, we can always talk and talk about whether it's explicit techniques, whether it's kind of a way to be special, either in one way or another, about it, but I'm going to repeat it again. And some legal experts say that, according to the existing Law on DUR, there is a basis for reviewing this, let's call it a non-monetary part or one not related to the monetary policy of the CNB. We decided to specify it, while respecting all procedures as a full-fledged country, EU member states, by contacting the European Central Bank from which we received an indication on 26 October. It is publicly available, it is not our internal document, it is publicly available in both English and Croatian, and can be seen very clearly from among other things. 314, on the last page, right now, I won't say controversial, but one of the provisions most often now during the debate on behalf of the clubs discussed, which is the question of this article. 6th century, although, I'll tell you, in a way, I'm not going to tell you to expand the subject, but it's not just in that sense, it's just article 6; it's also closely related to the preceding paragraphs. Because, among other things, it is said, if some kind of recommendation is issued, whether it is accepted or not. In this report, in the opinion of the European Central Bank, it says very explicitly and accordingly, among other things, this article has been streamlined. But once again, I note, therefore, and the DUR, as an institution that according to all the debates and all the clubs that have spoken so far, enjoys the high trust of this home, which is a very good thing, to build and further strengthen institutions, and thus one valuable and important, but also the CNB, and both of them come to HS, have their reports and as such you have the opportunity of course to question and speak. I am personally in a situation like the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Proposer, in a few weeks or months, I believe and hope that we will end up, say, a roof law that is from our section of the Budget Act. I believe that many of you will notice that I'm less of adept at defending him than this DUR Act, or something related to the CNB. I am only doing here what is in line with all our ideas, the principles that we have set for ourselves as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time in relation to certain restrictions, or certain things that we cannot ignore, which in this case is the opinion of the European Central Bank, which I once again point to and I pray that it is certainly being apostropheeded and taken into consideration, or to read it, I believe that most of you have read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129765	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, you have developed the rare ability of confident information manipulation, and you are indeed the champion of the government. You survived the affair the first part of Agrokor and you got extra confidence. You say you've done the consultations, you've asked the State Audit Office, so they've written you a reply to degrade them, they haven't said so, you want them to have independent auditors oversee their way of working, it's like telling the Constitutional Court we'll find a few judges to audit your work, the State's Attorney's Office, we'll find a few lawyers to audit your work. You've totally narrowed them down, this is embarrassing what you've done, sent, withdrawn this law, don't embarrass yourself, but you've obviously learned in such a way of working. So you're degraded a top-notch institution that works well, one of the few that works, and please, pull back, don't embarrass yourself and do us all any harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129767	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129768	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I said in the opening act, you were not yet present at the assembly, so when he was voting the conclusion of accepting the first reading of this law, 92 MPs voted for, one was abstention, no one was against it. Given the record, I've seen that you haven't been to the vote, but I remember very well since you're going to that ad-homna level, I remember one of your posts on Facebook, that it's the highlight and result and fruit of your long-standing struggle and that you warmly support this law, from first to second reading... No changes were made. [[You can't hear Lovrinović.]] [[Please, let's not yell from the scene.]] /Intruder Reiner: I'm giving you a warning./ [[Invader Reiner: Col. Lovrinović.]] [[You can't hear Lovrinović.]] I'm just saying the facts, I'm not manipulating anything, I'm just saying that from the first reading to the second reading there was no change, the State Audit Office was giving its comments and in the context of public consultation, it's publicly available, some of those comments we adopted, some of which we didn't, of course. [[You can't hear Lovrinović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129769	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović. What is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129770	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129771	Well, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know that yourself. We're going to the next line, and that's the esteemed representative of the Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129772	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, it's a good thing you pointed that out again, so it could have been done by now, so the auditors could have entered the CNB. But why didn't they, now that's the question, why didn't they? Article 16 states that the main public auditor brings forward the annual programme and the work plan of the State Audit Office and Article 19 says the State Audit Office plans and conducts an audit within the scope of the planned annual programme and work plan. What I want to point out, I don't know, is that enough in the debate, Minister, you have to stand between these institutions even though they are independent, stand by your authority, stand up and as the Government of the Republic, help these people if they don't have enough resources, you've put that head in particular now, but the question is whether they'll be able to come back to the CNB again, in other words whether they'll have time, the resources to do it because they're probably always using their plan to choose where some kind of hotspots are, I believe there's some sort of layout, but the fact that they're not enough and they're not paid enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129773	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129774	Thank you very much. Well your remark, I would say is in place, I will repeat once again, not just the opinion of the Croatian Parliament, I would say and the general public is very positive in the area of the State Audit Office and what they are doing and doing and with it in the world among other things there have been a lot of speeches and, of course, there is no doubt that both adequate and financially and all other resources of such an institution should be available. I will repeat once again, so according to this work we have even made a certain kind of exception to them that their financial plan they deliver to the Croatian Assembly or the Committee on Financial and State Budgets and, as such, become an integral part of the state budget. And looking at and considering their capacities and the results they're accomplishing, I think it's really unequivocal that adequate resources and resources will always be provided for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129775	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129776	Minister, once again, the MOST of Independent Lists has repeatedly sought and it was the law for the State Audit to carry out a business audit, has the right to audit business as well as in other companies, companies, institutions, local self-government, to have a business audit. However, I do not understand this article, I have spoken to people professionally, in Article 13(6), the CNB is not obliged to give to the State Office for the revision of the implementation plan or recommendations, which means that the CNB is. The Governor shall have no obligation to provide documentation to which the recommendation or order or implementation plan will be carried out, which will lead the State Audit and that is the basic problem what Article 13(6) you have introduced in this law in relation to the revision in the CNB, hereby repealing this Article. I'll give the amendment to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129777	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129778	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here is the opening act and when you gave the replica, I will now take the opportunity and that provision, not a provision, but a point that is an integral part of this opinion of the European Central Bank. Therefore, the European Central Bank notes, therefore, that it has before it such a provision of the law, notes that the provisions of the draft law of the revision of the CNB are a special procedure in which the Governor may give his/her indication of the draft audit reports, file objections to the audit carried out and not accept them as well as that the CNB should not be obliged to submit a plan for the implementation of the mandate to the State Audit Office in accordance with the principle of independence of the Central Bank, including institutional independence. Thus, they referred to this article and to each one. And I repeat once again, it is not only an item of 6 to be observed but also other items of that same article. I must admit, here, for a few times now, given this opinion and the European Central Bank's position, we don't have room for maneuvering with all your comments and perhaps some of our thinking, something different to be streamed into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129779	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129780	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you said well, the European Central Bank has set certain frameworks. But the European Central Bank has not told the representatives in HS, you cannot discuss it. So we have a few reports, a few documents coming into this high house, as far as the CNB is concerned. First there are two reports, based on the CNB Act, and here we can talk about everything. And monetary policy and everything. That's not what the European Bank is defending us. So we can send a clear message through our discussion so that we disagree or agree with some things. It's the same story, this provision of 6 which may be a mistake. But when the State Audit report comes in here, we're discussing the report, and I'm going to particularly touch that in my individual debate, and we're going to stick it on the governor's nose and see if he's done it or not, so if he hasn't met them, let's think about what's going to happen to his mandate. So the question arises, do we use the instruments we have regarding the CNB independently of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129781	Thank you very much. Then we'll move on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129782	Thank you very much. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, I can also say that the State Audit is doing its job, I have spoken countless times, and I have spoken example, here, only under the dedicated means that the state has given for an exact purpose, for example. in the shipbuilding report, the report, the example of Brodosplit, every year said that the funds were not spent on purpose, i.e. unlawfully, Brodosplit has been meaning since 2012, it is in all reports, therefore, the money the state has given for the purpose of shipbuilding has not been spent on purpose, it is visible, it is the minister knows, it is visible that they have not been spent on purpose. Here's one example that the audit has done its job properly and the State Audit Office delivers its reports to us every year, we discuss them and remains on it. And it's about billions of kunas. Just here, on one example, the shipbuilding and that's why the shipbuilding is here because the money was not invested, which the state was giving for the shipbuilding, which was giving for.../incomprehensible/... the minister is leaving so he could confirm this or not confirm, but it doesn't matter. I'll keep this up. So the State Audit Office is unquestioned here. What MOST asked the CNB to be, to be audited by this institution. It didn't go through here. However, we now see in this law that the CNB also enters here. What am I saying that for? So when we remember 15 tons of gold being sold, who were they asking? But then, here, here's the former minister, here's the thing: The governor couldn't sell 15 tons of gold without the minister's signature. 15 tons of gold. The Croatian state is without a gram of gold and did not ask anyone. And according to some calculations, this is about huge losses because gold jumped on the market so that it was sold when it was at the lowest price, so it even speaks of amounts of 5 billion kuna losses only at that rise price. It couldn't have happened without the minister and governor. And who asked this parliament if gold should be sold? Did it explain itself then? It's not. So, Croatia, here, on these examples, it's so much about that part. But when we talk about the CNB, when we talk about its sovereignty, and it's neither national, it's more who knows whose, we see only around entering the Eurozone, that neither our parliamentary representatives nor our citizens are asked. There will be no referendum, nor will there be public debates. Therefore, they have a role to play, and as far as business is concerned, that is the most important thing. So, business, that's very important, I have here a 2014 tender where we have a tender called for, written by a number of media, so, here's an example specifically, when he called the governor's competition in 2014 in the documentation that needs to have the chef's skills, in the organization and preparation of the lunches, the receptions according to the protocol by connecting ethnology with gastronomy. He says, skills, so with white cooked fish go white wines, with game going something stronger black, with sweets to serve something more aromatic than chefs, the CNB needs the next caterers, and lists that still. So they need to make love to food for them as employees and their guests. No one controls that. He doesn't control the amount of wages they receive, the way they receive it, the public tenders, he absolutely doesn't do anything. And now we have the law, I was satisfied, no matter what MOST's bill didn't and there was opposition, which didn't pass here in parliament, however, no one can convince me. I've called a number of legal experts, yes. 13th century 6 where it is said about the CNB that the Office of State Audit will be able to carry out an audit, I will quote once more: "Croatian National Bank did not deliver to the State Office for the Review of the Implementation Plan of Orders or Recommendations", respected assistants, secretaries of the minister. That's why I'm going to give the article, this article, the amendment. Where the National Bank as well as all other institutions that also companies, public institutions, local administrations, are to be the same. To be the same. I will give that the CNB is obliged to deliver to the State Office for Auditing, Implementation Plan and Recommendations, on what basis will the State Audit take place on business, audit? When there's no plan, based on what they haven't delivered, which means it's good written, and we're about to enter a state audit on business. However, with this proposal, in fact, the Croatian People's and Governors do absolutely nothing, neither plan nor any other recommendation, he has absolutely no obligation, nor will he do it, this is pro-forms that they've thrown into the law this and that's it. Once again, I will play a very important role in breaking up monetary policy and hitting politics because I have raised a criminal application against the stability council, which has made it possible for Todorovic to benefit from without the bonds, without cover, without cover, as money, so Agrokor was 10 billion kuna and thus was struck by financial stability, and thus it was essential to meet the stability council where Governor Vujčić, the president of that council, where the representatives of HANFA and where the representative of the ministry were. Yeah, unfortunately, I liked doing it with the big experts. So, the CNB is the least folk bank, it's an interesting bank, Vujcic is much better, I don't choose any friends, that he's good at Tach there or dealing already in Peppermint, good with Emile Tedeschi, who I once again invite from here to finally return the money with the interest he took for the weapons of 90. In the 1990s, when the Cetina province was bled, when it was more necessary for defence money than a cow, to return that money to Emile Tedeski people of Cetinska krajina, who fought the Serbian occupation, it was much more important for him to socialise and these people than for the interest and protection of Croatian monetary sovereignty, it was much better and easier for him to be good to the governor with Todorovic and allow him to use the currency without cover, so that he pays without cover, and citizens can understand what it means to have no guarantees 10 billion kuna. However, the State's Attorney's office doesn't give a single answer, I've handed it over already for a year and a half, so they sold us gold, then it couldn't have been without the minister's signature, 15 tons of gold, by some estimates of the experts I've been talking to, it was lost at a difference in the price of 5 billion kuna. That's not small, and who gave someone the right to sell that much? But mostly, I will stick to the revision and repeat that I will give the amendment because it was simply laid down in the law that the state audit will be able to enter the business of the CNB, and one article in this article states that the CNB is not obliged to deliver to the State Office for the revision of the implementation plan of the mandates and recommendations, which means that the State audit will not be able to carry out a state audit unless these plans, orders or recommendations are delivered to the State Audit Office. The CNB shall have the same treatment as all other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, from the company to the units of local and regional self-government and all other bodies. Here, that's how I say once again that I'm going to give the amendment to this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129783	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, so the state audit in the past 20 years has opened up this House a series of taboo topics that were in principle not, or were thought not to be spoken of, and among other things, what was skeptical the first time in law was that the tax administration controlled political parties, political campaign, but later it went to the Office of State Audit. However, what I consider positive in this law, which is that the proponent, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, recognized three key things that have been mentioned in the discussions over the past years, according to the State Audit reports in this House, and often in the media, the first thing was, it was constantly said whether the State Audit Office had a lot of independence, independence, etc. I think it's an order. 4. which is one exception in public finances in the Republic of Croatia further strengthens the independence and independence of the State Audit Office because they are practically one of the budgetary users where their budgets for action are regulated in a different way for salaries, material costs and other costs necessary for the operation and operation of the Dracial Audit Office. Therefore, they are the ones who have to come up with their financial plan by 1 June, the financial plan is ultimately adopted by the Parliamentary Finance Committee and, in principle, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to install it as such in the state budget and thus to secure the funds. Why? Because the State Office for Auditing in this way, with the adoption of their reports so far, is further approximated by HS, and away from the influence of the Government, because if you get the funds for regular activity, if it is not up to you to beg the Government, it is this House that makes a decision for you, it is someone or won't admit it, a great kind of giving of independence. What is very important, after such a provision in the law, will go to the new Law on the salaries of state auditors, because look, as much as we praise these reports when they are here in this House of Commons, these reports cannot be made by people who do not know, these reports can only be made by people who understand, who recognize, and even the environment in which certain business events took place and on the basis of this report that we here in this House of Commons have in mind, and in such a way we have insight into the complete financial flow of public finances in the Republic. The next thing you know is that the state review can carry out an audit of certain operations in accordance with the provisions of what the Republic of Croatia has adopted at the time of its entry into the EU. European Central Banks. But that's what I said in the replica, and I want to sum it up specifically in my individual debate, and we have twice a year in this House to discuss the work of the CNB. Based on the CNB law, they report twice a year. Likewise, this provision art. The 13th century of the 6th century, where the governor is not obliged to give us a plan, it doesn't even expropriate us at all, nor does it forbid us to discuss it, that we clearly tell him that some things can be fixed, and God forbid he doesn't fix them until the next report on, in fact, the next finding of the State Audit Office. So, we are the ones who have the instruments to say that someone works or doesn't work, that someone respects or doesn't respect something because if everyone, I tell you both the creditors and the participants of public life in the Republic, which is the basis of the State Audit Act, includes the work of the state audit, is obliged to act according to certain rules, then it simply has to be done by the governor of the CNB. Maybe this provision only blows him up a little bit, but here our debate, and no one can forbid us and that the European Central Bank doesn't say that in HS he can't argue from, that he can't expunge, he has to tell us why he did something or why he didn't do something, is this where we chose him. In this way, we also give power to the State Audit Office, and we also give power to this House of Commons to finally see that certain decisions and certain discussions that are being held in this House have some kind of power, after all, so we should talk about what these people think and say. And the next item that I think is very important, and perhaps even the most important, which is to follow the recommendations. I even think about it and I said it to the Committee on Finance that the bill promoter, Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to go even stronger and even stronger because if you have a recommendation that you do not do something right and you have to fix it, then it has to conclude in the next few findings that you haven't fixed it, this recommendation as the instrument that the State Audit Office primarily informs the person it audited, as well as the one who discusses this report regardless of whether it's the municipal council, the city council, the county assembly, this High House, if the person who received the recommendation doesn't act on it, then all of them seem ridiculous because what a dead letter on paper, that recommendation is the key thing. And what's still supposed to be installed, and that's what they're called. The State Audit Office disagrees with that. However, all our supervisory services in this country have the possibility of, in addition to these criminal provisions that they have here, having the possibility of these so-called so-called. the term of office. So the State Audit Office should also be able to strengthen the implementation of these recommendations, if simply someone is not going to act until someone, as our people say, fires in the pocket. But not implementing the State Audit Office's recommendations is a clear message that there are no laws in force. Therefore, even the governor of the CNB cannot escape if the State Audit Office recommended to him certain things the next time a State Audit Office report is found in front of this High House not to act on it. And what's very important here, with some institutions for the government of the Republic of Croatia, is usually there's a financial presence that gets by the nose for all the mistakes of all those in the state budget. However, perhaps we should have installed here or perhaps the conclusion of the High House in the adoption of this law is that when we submit the audit report, when it comes to the report on the revision of the CNB to be present either the Governor or the Deputy Governor, and I think that we have then completely circled the story of whether our debate will not apply to the auditor, the auditor has done his job correctly, our debate needs to be followed by those who do not follow certain rules and who do not comply with the laws and regulations adopted by this House. If you look at colleagues and colleagues, we pass laws, the state review is practically the strongest supervisory institution that controls it, as well as the State Inspectorate and all other inspections, they are the ones who control whether the laws we adopt in this High House are implemented or not and if we don't have one final efficiency, then all these laws that we bring are unfortunately dead letters on paper. So I'm looking forward to the fact that the government has recognized these three, so to speak, very important things, that it has proposed a new State Audit Act that I personally support.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129785	Thank you very much. We have a replica of your exposure, and that's the esteemed representative of the Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129786	Dear fellow Shuker, I hope you will hear me, so and even related to the mention of the term of office. [[/Intruder: Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's just keep it down a little bit so that colleague Sagar can say what he has for the replica, please.]] What, you were the finance minister, what I resent and this proposal, when we look at what he's drawn from the context, in essence, contains these criminal provisions, but what is the coordination among all the bodies that are important to all those recommendations, that they are truly implemented, say public procurement, you mention here and the Ministry of Finance, so more serious violations that many entities are going to be audited with their hands, right, because they are aware that they will not be punished in the future, how to solve this, how to resolve... that all institutions are working in synergy and to prevent such occurrences? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a key question that you've opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129787	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129788	Comrade Sagar, as I was saying to the CNB The Court of Justice further submits certain reports and various institutions from the State Attorney's Office report to this High House, and for the offences committed by the users of the budget of the state or local self-government units, this is obtained by the State's Attorney's Office, they should be asked what they have done about it. [[Intruder Reiner: Please, colleagues and colleagues, let us be quiet to hear.]] Just like I said some other institutions. We're here to discuss the CNB report twice, and then we can ask them if some things have been done or not. The only question is whether we recognize here that this law, the work of the State Office, is approaching this House of Commons because if the constituency committee as a working body brings their financial plan and it is practical to say so, the Holy Scriptures that the Government should accept, we thus provide them with certain protection and we ask them for quality. [[Intruder Reiner: Fellows and colleagues, please let's be parliamentary, let's let our colleague Shuker say what he wants.]] And anyone here can talk and discuss it. That's the point of the whole story, whether we in certain reports filed by the institutions are asking if someone did something or didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129789	The next individual debate is the respected representative Grosdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129790	Dear Vice President Dear Secretary of State with his associates. [[Intruder Reiner: Please let us allow colleague Peric to speak his debate.]] We are facing a very important law, and what should certainly be noted is that the State Audit Office has been present since 1994, and it should in particular be pointed out that since 2010, the change in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where Article 53 has been added and the State Audit Office has been designated as the highest audit institution which is independent and independent of its work and is also...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129791	Please, can we just calm down a little bit to finish my classmate, Peric, so we can vote then, please? Give her a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129792	There has also been a change of the then Law on the State Audit Office where Chapter 32 is closed, and that is financial supervision in EU accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129793	I ask you nicely, be calm so that colleague Peric can complete his presentation and that we can move on to the vote. I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129794	Therefore, in accordance with all these allegations, the State Audit Office, as has been said, is very strong, in addition to...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129795	Look, colleagues and colleagues, this really doesn't make sense because colleague Peric can't say his exposure like you all had the right to say, so I'll let her say it later and we'll go to the vote now because this doesn't make sense that it makes it impossible for her colleague to talk, right? It's not right. We will now continue the individual debate on the point we were interrupted for voting and speech on behalf of the club and will now be spoken by the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Today, the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office is on the agenda. I have to admit that a month and a half ago, two people read somewhere that a law was being prepared that would allow the State Audit to finally enter the CNB, made me happy with that news, and I was happy and I expected that it would finally happen. However, when the bill came to our table, then I remained deeply disappointed and therefore I am inclined to call this bill a simple farce and the translation of the word farce into Croatian means lakordia. Why did I use such a difficult qualification for this law, because you know and see dear citizens, that we from the party change Croatia we serve the arguments, we are serious people and I will quote a series of arguments in favor of it. Let's start from the beginning. The state audit in the Republic of Croatia should have status and in this Bill proposal imagine they say it is the highest audit instance in Croatia. Only a few items below are said that when a state audit enters the National Bank, it will not be able to revise what it has done commercially externally or as an independent audit is said to be paid by the Croatian National Bank itself, you know. You can imagine how objective the audits are, of course we can't doubt everything, which institutions themselves pay to do for them by auditors. Of course someone gets me wrong, so we can't generalize because it's always bad and unnecessary. But let's remember the experiences from the United States before 2008, how many audit houses, credit agencies as they gave... what financial reports they gave. Let us remember how the finance minister is present when there was a crisis in Agrokor when we all asked him, the media asked him – so how did Mr. Minister of Finance report, so you were one of the key people there. He said everything was good there, stable. And then he said when it all came out that he didn't really know anything about it. You see, it's hard to talk to such officials who are quick to forget. They don't respect other people's arguments, and they don't care about national interests. Let's keep going with the arguments that say why this bill on the functioning of state audit is a simple farce. You see, what is prescribed is that the state audit can work tomorrow when it enters the Croatian National Bank. It can count how many computers there are, how many buildings, cars, if it needs anything, what kind of consumable material and how many employees it has. And dear citizens, that's all. And that's all. If, by any chance, a state audit notices in its performance that something is wrong and that the objection, all other institutions must respond. The Croatian National Bank is not ordered by law to respond and fix. It says the word “can ” there, which means that it does not have to. So I don't know what law this is that further strengthens the Croatian People's Bank as a state in keeping. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, there is no institution in Croatia that is more strongly protected by Chinese walls, laws, whatever you want from the Croatian National Bank. So why is she so important? Let us remind ourselves that in every country after the president or prime minister depends on what function is more important, the next most important function is not the minister of police, justice or finance, not. The governor is the next most important person in the country. So why was everyone so interested in him? Why are they guarding that institution? That's why they don't make it more transparent to work more in the interest of the economy, Croatian society? Because it is clearly managed by stakeholders who do not care about the interests of citizens and the Republic of Croatia. I remind you. This Parliament never debated the Croatian National Bank until new people arrived, new parties from Change Croatia, Living Wall, so here is Bulj from Mosta most about this and some other rare individuals. And I am glad that this topic is increasingly surrounding the attention of Croatian citizens because people do not understand why the Croatian National Bank is important. Let's go back to talking about the State Audit Act. You see, the office, the State Audit Office, he oversees all the users of the state budget. So, judicial, executive, legislative authority, public enterprises where the state has a stake. And therefore, they must all make certain observations, observations must be answered and corrected. The Croatian National Bank does not have to do so according to this proposal. She can only do it. You see, it is a sign that the Croatian National Bank is privileged against the Constitutional Court, the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry, the Government, the political parties, everything. So it's amazing why it's like that. What else is interesting to say here? The institutions of the State Audit Office are simply demoted here. Why? Because you see, in the bill of this law, it says that someone has to audit her too. And who would that be? These would be external auditors who, imagine who, the policy would choose here from the Parliament and say go upstairs and review, check how the State Audit Office works. That's the same thing if we were to tell the Constitutional Court here now we're going to assign you a few independent judges to come and control what you're doing or the State's Attorney's office and a couple of lawyers to control what they're doing, etc. This degrades the institutions of the State Audit Office. In one sentence, it is given the importance that it is the most important, and a few items later that it is actually political that it has so much constrained space in the revision of the Croatian National Bank it is unclear, its mission is unclear. And what does it all come down to, about what conclusion? The bottom line is this one. The ruling coalition said this way – so look, these constantly resist, we are constantly being keyed by the opposition, this Change Croatia this Lovrinović, this Living Wall and that – let us pass this Law on State Audit. But what are we gonna do? We'll let them go there formally, you know, but we'll narrow them down so much that they're looking into something, they're going to review it so we can just say -- look, they've been there, they haven't found anything, everything's fine. So, a simple show and a simple college. And respected colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens, I'm very concerned about the situation in the CNB and no one really knows the real situation. Why? Because the access to information is completely jammed, closed, and we can only hope. I remind you, what's wrong with that? From the beginning of 2017 to the half of 2018, the institution made 3 billion €800 million in losses. Over the past few years, it has accumulated, increased external debt, its external debt totaled by the Republic of Croatia to 2 billion euros. There about 100 key executives are not employed in a public competition, not even in an internal competition, but directly by appointment, and I do not currently know a larger institution where more potential clientelism is ruled than there. And you call this a new good law. This is just another one, one of the examples of duplicity, modes of work, the behaviour of this policy, as you have today made a decision to hand the INA to foreigners, you have ruled it out, you have today ruled the INAs. That's how you want to declassify the State Audit Office, so you want the citizens to continue to deceive you into doing something, and in fact, you're petting all our eyes and there's plenty of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129798	We have one replica, a respected representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129799	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Lovrinović, you have spoken a lot and criticised the relationship between the audit in essence, the CNB by the State Audit Office, so I do not know if you have had the opportunity to read the opinion of the European Central Bank in April 2018, where a special note stands, as the European Central Bank has previously noted, at the head of institutional independence from Article. 130 Contracts and Art. 7 The Statutes of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank indicate that the exercise of powers and the exercise of tasks and duties assigned to central banks must not be subject to external instructions or the influence of the Executive Authority, so we should take account of their institutional independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129800	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129801	Dear colleagues, for 30 years I've been handing over the subject of monetary policy and international finance, I've been doing it my whole life, so I'm glad you reminded me of all that. In no word did I ask for any state audit to interfere in the conduct of monetary policy, nor did I mention it, but I ask that the state audit be allowed to check the total financial operations of the CNB. It is one, according to a research by the Zagreb Economic Institute, 2 years ago, the most innovative central bank in Europe and has the highest degree of autonomy. That's where things don't work out. Do not pretend to be you from the ruling coalition, it is enough for you to come from Brussels, Frankfurt, any opinion, whether it is from the European Central Bank, from the EU Commission, you, for you, is the Holy Scriptures. Fight for the interests of the Republic of Croatia, for the sovereign, the way and the ability to decide, Don't be a servant. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129802	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129803	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The state review in my court does not adequately do its job, and the evidence of my claim is countless affairs, of which unfortunately, the vast majority does not have a judicial epilogue, and it is a large amount of money. I read the article in my own time, says this, the state audit, a billion and a half kn in Brodosplit, was spent on purpose. Now, I'm asking, is it possible that a billion-and-a-half kuna could have been spent on purpose, and if so, who was responsible? I'll give you another example. He says the Uljanika administration purposelessly spent 855 million kn. He says in the article that it was the government's conclusion, the question is again, Is it possible that it is true and if it is true, is such an accidental spending of money a serious thing? Because it's hundreds of millions of kn, even over billions. But then we have one of the most shocking examples of the lack of public audit. That's the HDZ case. So, the HDZ, the DORH reported them, means there's a reasonable suspicion, they've filed charges against HDZ for that FIMI media affair. That money was being drawn from state-owned companies, etc. And finally, what happened? Part of the money that may have been lagging behind, I have no idea, but not some way was found in the HDZ vault, it wasn't registered through business books, and it turns out from court statements that this money, the new HDZ leadership, was actually taken to the DORH. It's about, if I remember correctly, 2 million kn and 300,000 euros. So, just over 4 million kunas of money that's never been recorded in business books. Why am I saying that? Because there are a large number of people who have said that the way HDZ was financed was not transparent, now, not that it's saying Transparency International, I don't know, some association that deals, GONG or human rights or whatever, but that's what the HDZ accountant, the HDZ treasurer, and even Mr. Jarnjak, if I remember correctly, then he was the HDZ secretary, he was also saying, he was a prime suspect, so later, if I remember correctly, he became even a witness in that case. And why am I bringing this up? It's not disputed for me to have HDZ steal money. I don't see anything, I mean, controversial about it because, uh, people are different, it's possible that it happened, but what I'm surprised is that state institutions are doing nothing about it. So, a state audit that should oversee HDZ business even though it's clear from witness statements and evidence, etc. that there are serious accounting problems with HDZ, but deep serious problems that mean any black funding, etc. The state audit gives the HDZ Business Report that everything is great, that there is no problem. And even after these witnesses and evidence came out, etc. The state audit continues to not revise the report that gave the HDZ positive business. So I want to say the next thing. It's no problem if a thief steals something. The problem is if the system that this thief should sanction doesn't work. Because a thief can be expected to steal. And you can't blame a thief for stealing if the system allows it. But in the case of this trial for FIMI media, etc. This situation is about the fact that the state audit has not actually done its part of the HDZ business. In my court, the state audit was supposed to take place when witnesses came out, the evidence, when it started talking about black money, when the money that wasn't recorded in the books was taken to DORH, the state audit was supposed to say at that point – wait, is it possible that de jure the situation or so on. - I would call it a theoretical state - in business books does not correspond to the real state of business books or that balance sheets are faked, that financial reports do not correspond to reality. All we know today is that the state audit has not yet made any objection about it. Financial HDZ reports have gone smoothly. It is clear to many later that at the very least there is a suspicion of various crimes, the state’s audit is not suspicious. The state review does not initiate any proceedings which I personally do not understand how, why, etc. However, unlike having a situation where billions and hundreds of millions of kunas were accidentally spent in shipyards, although we have a situation here with HDZ where it is clear that if suddenly someone pulls out of a stocking of 4 million kunas and there is no money in the business books, it is clear that there is then a disproportionateity between the situation in financial reports and the real situation. However, even as far as I understand the state audit is concerned, it is not disputed. And the one where the biggest money, that's what my colleague Lovrinovic says, that's what I'm saying, is the CNB. That's where the state review couldn't even get in. So, where billions of these state audits go, they're not interested. Now, this State Audit Act says some private auditors hired by the CNBs will be able to monitor them. However, of course, my colleague Lovrinovic is questioning the honesty and honesty of these auditors, because ha, everyone is aware that if they give a negative opinion on the work, let's say some institution will question whether the institution will hire him again and pay him to do their report again. However, Mr. Lovrinovic, even if the state's review of CNB surveillance works, the question is how objective this review would be, because in the case of HDZ, we have a visible situation that there are witnesses, there is evidence, there is an indictment, the trial is under way. And all of this together isn't enough for a state audit to suspect the truthfulness of HDZ financial reports. Here, I don't know what else you need? Instead, however, media have shaken the findings by a state-run audit about the fact that 3,000 kunas, 3,000 900 kunas for fuel, were accidentally spent in a party called the Alphabet of Democracy. Then the media reported actively on three thousand 900 kunas for fuel. They even did charts of some of the god's serious malfeasances, etc. Although from the very nature of the amount it is clear that it is small amounts and that it is actually nothing controversial. But when it comes to me, it's all questionable and suspicious. And when it comes to HDZ, then you have evidence, you have witnesses, you have a DOHR indictment, you have a trial in progress, but the state audit doesn't say – and look, we have HDZ financial books that are suspicious. That's not what the state audit said - we doubt their credibility. HDZ spends 10 million kunas a year from the budget, I've never heard of a state audit contesting some of their accounts, etc. And now the question is, why is it all clear in HDZ, and for example in the alphabet of democracy, there were three thousand 900 kunas in fuel? This is a serious question that each of us would have to ask, and you'd have to wonder if the role of a state audit is to conceal the real situation or whether the role of a state audit is to expose the real situation? Is the role of a state audit to detect irregularities or to hide irregularities? From the work of the state audit, from the fact that it does not deal with either the CNB, or that in shipyards if it is true that money was spent unintendedly and did not go where it was supposed to be, I think it is as serious as HDZ, but the state audit does not do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129804	Thank you very much. We have some replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129805	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, I listened to what you said. When it comes to the State Audit Office, we've got a bunch of reports here that they've made. But we need to know that their mandate is limited. They are a bunch of these findings, findings, negative about subsidies, support, and political parties, including HDZ, have been sent to the DORH before, but this obviously costs dust, they simply cannot, have no instrument of prosecution of the criminal. In my opinion, however, they are one of the few institutions that still works, which is said to have little money, little space and everything else, trying to disable it. I'm curious, which disappointed me, a few days ago was a session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, this is a farce from the law, I think that's where you agree. A representative of the SDP voted for this law. How do you interpret it, why do they support a law that is bad and Does that hurt us like opposition? ... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129806	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129807	Dear colleague Lovrinovic, you say the state audit is doing a good job. But how is it possible to give a positive report on HDZ's business for a period when DORH, witnesses and various material evidence weighs heavily on HDZ? And I could understand that the state audit said, look, we, at the time we wrote the report, didn't have that knowledge. But if the subsequent findings were obtained, then why was the finding of a state audit that said that everything was by law when it was apparent that there were serious doubts whether it was all by law and why no criminal charges were filed against those responsible for the counterfeiting of business books? If it is clear that the situation in the business books did not correspond to the real state, that there was money in the register that was not recorded anywhere and not 1,000 or 10,000 kuna, but Supposedly more than 4 million. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129808	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129809	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, you said in your statement that the HDZ has been established, I don't think that even the revision found, that it was the DORH's finding that counterpart Bacic had unreported money in the safe, or in Prime Minister Sanader's statement and former HDZ president Jadranka Kosor. Prime Minister Sanader explained that the elections were won by even gestures, half legal and half under the table, so on that side, I don't think it was an audit. Even though I'm genuinely interested, which is why you specifically resented the revision, that you didn't deliver the accounts, which is why you mention it in the alphabet of democracy and what the problem is, that you might explain a little bit here to hear what it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129810	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129811	I'll explain what's going on, colleague Maras. For example, when you, for the purposes of the party, drive somewhere in the car, you should also attach a travel order and you should pay for the logs. But if you don't use a travel order and you don't pay your daily bills, it's over a year to collect, say, 3,000 and 900 kn of the fuel bill, and count, divided by 12, as much as it is, 300 kn per month that the fuel is spent, then the state's audit says it is, but as if it's really spent fuel for the party or not because it doesn't have a travel order along with it, etc. But, I mean, it's stupid stuff. They're here to discuss 3 thousand 900 kn, a 4 million from these HDZ funds, which are not registered anywhere, does not discuss them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129812	Thank you very much. Thank you. The next individual debate is that of the respected representative, Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129813	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I, in principle in my work so far and as a minister and in other functions that I have been, the experiences that the state's audit job has done, means I've met quality people who have had enough experience and have helped me many times in a particular job, not in a way that has revealed illegalities and certain things that are not in accordance with the law, but have given suggestions in which business can be organised more effectively, show business etc. and on that side of the review input can be useful. What amazes me and I can never agree with is that there are both institutions and bodies in the Republic of Croatia that refuse to refuse at all any kind of surveillance, that there is anything to be objected to, that there is anything to suggest to them because they act as if the money they spend is their money. And it's not their money, it's public money, and people should have that kind of responsibility to remove any possibility of doubt, intransparentity or irregularity. Here, we have now seen the last few days of debate over a municipality in the Republic of Croatia, where at the head of the chief of the HDZ who has ignored all possible laws, decisions, regulations that are in force and on their salary and with the fees of the council members in the municipal council, showing costs, for example, travel orders, which has been established, sent a report to the DORH and the man simply ignores it, rejects it, says that he has nothing to discuss with the audit, that it is all set up, that they deliberately sent him there, to control him, etc., etc. It would be good if the parties in the Republic of Croatia, if someone from a party were to react in this way and that SDP is an SDP, I would argue tomorrow that this SDP man is moving away because he shows an insensitiveness and irresponsibility, but any respect for the public money he manages. Unfortunately, HDZ has not responded at all to such a situation, here it is today even in the debates I have not heard at all that any of these people are building on, and he spends the money of his municipality, public money and is always there when he finds himself in such a situation in general talking about some political pressure, although I do not understand what kind of political pressure should be given that the HDZ is now in power and he appoints an auditor or has the potential to influence the state audit, etc. So perhaps a step forward would be for people from their parties or insignificant and independent lists of people to move away and say they simply can't behave because it sends a false message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that people can act as they think of it. Today we see another eclatantic example, it is that we have one trial around the town of Zagreb where it is a shame by some estimates for the City of Zagreb 12 million kunas where the mayor also has no responsibility as if it were not about the court making fun of the system and talking – that I would end up watching every contract, I am not in the office, I am on the road etc., etc. Uninterested at all to file any bills. Not only the state audit, but also the citizens of the City of Zagreb. If that's the way it is, you can see from the report we're also going to have here at the hearing. It is a report on public enterprises, where 30 companies from all over Croatia were analysed, owned by cities, municipalities or counties, and two of them seem state-owned, where several of them 3 or 4 have received unconditional opinion on whether they are effectively using external services. Thirty of them conditional on some recommendations and one public firm has been assessed as totally inefficient, non-transparent with 60 and some recommendations. It's about Zagreb Holding. This is unfortunately the situation with us in the City of Zagreb where the largest public company in local units means, Zagreb Holding, which annually spends 700 to 800 million kuna on external services, does it in a way that the auditor cannot not determine, probably even those who run it did not form records so that it could be controlled whether and how it is spent, whether it is effective, whether it can be better done. And as long as we have individuals like that who are irresponsible, as long as we have individuals like that who don't respond at all because they think they can do whatever they want, so long as the review report and any audit laws won't give, they won't have a purpose. Because if the revision writes something and someone snaps their hand and says it's none of my business - and I don't agree with Pernar and this amount he mentions doesn't have any of that insignificant amount. Whether it is 4, 40 or 4 million kuna, when it comes to public money, it must be spent transparently. So on that side, the state's audit is going to do its job. The CNBs absolutely need to be entered and monitored. See how it's available there, because we have the same situation one year to get a couple of billion kunas, one year to get no money at all. So it remained an institution alone for, it didn't become, it was so defined for itself. Turns out you can't ask her anything. It's often used for artificial employment. Because how else do you explain that one politician Sandra Švaljek ended up as a vice governor, and never in any way expressed her ambitions, but probably in some deal that was far from the public eye, she arranged it with Prime Minister Plenkovic, and now she has become on a very luxuriant salary of over 30 and some thousand kuna employees and taken care of for the next six years. So these are the things that the review needs to determine, that we should be given. The CNBs can't be an island to themselves. That's what we all stood for. So there was Minister Maric, who spent one entire term of office while the government of Zoran Milanovic dedicated this type of fight for transparency in the CNB and for the activation of state property. Unfortunately, we can see how it ended in the case of the CNB, but also in the activation of state property that when you promise to resign and leave if the INA refinery closes in Sisak, you can act if you're HDZ or you're the first on the list in the 6th constituency as if nothing happened. They'll probably put you in the 9th constituency next time, so you won't have to answer to the voters, which is why you said something back then, and you're doing something now that you're in the position you're in. And it was almost incredible to listen to Bačić's replicas today. It's surreal, like you're in another world, in your sleep. He explains to the Croatian public that in essence HDZ had nothing to do with the failure of INA and the sale of Hungarian hands as if there were no Peace Fund directly influenced by HDZ and government when 7% of the shares were sold, as if there were no Sanader and his business in that restaurant where they wrote to each other on the napkin as much as they needed or what. So I am convinced that Croatian citizens have not forgotten so much, nor are they stupid enough to accept that kind of argument, that they will remember very well what happened today in the Croatian Parliament. Let me get this straight. The state audit has my full support regardless of whether in opposition or in power to do its job, to handle what it was paid for. I think it's a relatively solid job. Quite often these reports are here when I watch these public companies when I see that they are probably not even excessively deep but how many irregularities they found in Zagreb Holding, then it is seen that they are not working on the orders of the authorities because Milan Bandic is the pillar of this government as one of these four pillars on this side. If there was not one of these columns, the gallery would probably collapse, so here you can imagine one of these two pillars behind fellow Suker is Milan Bandic, who supports Plenkovic and HDZ in power. And since the review report is such for Zagreb Holding probably that political pressure would not be so, this job should continue in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129814	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First of all, she's a respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129815	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, in your debate, you mentioned the HDZ chief whose review identified a series of irregularities and then called HDZ not to be fenced by that chief. It is precisely this law that the HDZ Government has proposed, and for these very reasons, and the HDZ Club has supported this law that brings the paper, that if irregularities are found that exactly the DUR can, when it sees that some misdemeanors, irregularities have traits and criminal offences, that it may pass on to the DORH, regardless of which party this head or head of the office comes from.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129816	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129817	It's okay, I mean, which means the government proposes, so I absolutely think that on that side of the law we should propose that the revision can do its job more effectively, but nothing prevents you from, here and now in this replica fence from that chief, who is your party colleague, who was doing miracles there. Well, I mean, you don't need any special investigation to do that, you just need to read the State Audit report for that municipality, and you'll see that it's unacceptable behavior, including his political statements after that report. Well, he said in the paper that he was politically persecuted, that he was targeted by a review, who would have him, what was Plenkovic after him? Because I mean, I really don't understand who would go after him from that side, but that's enough that he's saying that HDZ is being fenced by him and on a personal level, not just by law. So you have a chance to do this, and I'm sorry you haven't already done it, and so you sent the citizens a very clear message.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129818	The next replica of the respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129819	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, so I think that the state audit should be returned to the obligation that was before each year's review was carried out in cities and every two years in municipalities, because we now have a situation, you now know for Zagreb what irregularities there are, but for example. Here, I come from a city that has had a conditional opinion of state audit for years, and for years no opinion was good. And the last revision was made there in 2014 for 2013. So, if the city gets a conditional opinion for 10 years and now legal changes for 5 years there hasn't been a revision there, so I wonder what the audit will find there when one day comes in a year, two or three days. So, I'd return that, but it's not the fault of the audit, so they're doing a good job and the state's audit was just among the first to discover a bunch of criminal acts and some kind of irregularities. But here, I'm in favour of returning that obligation precisely because these mayors and mayors wouldn't get swept away because of the failure to come. And for control. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129820	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129821	Well, they're smudged, that's what you can see. So, you and ours think that the revision itself is aware that the level of transparency, which is higher since we've still moved away from the 2000s and the HDZ government that set up here I'd say amazing standards, bridges, this, making FIMI media, marketing, means when we remember ministers like, one of the ministers who boasted in his statements that he praised Prime Minister Sanader that he first solved FIMI media in order to get some money out of the budget, I hope that we left that time behind, at least as far as the government is concerned, HDZ, when you see little and Agrokor and this, he throws that trust, but as far as the municipalities are concerned, guaranteed that this level of transparency is the smallest, and it would be good for the revision to start at that level to work a little bit more because local sheriffs imagine a lot of things in their head.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129822	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129823	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Once again, I agree with you that the State Audit Office is one of the few institutions that works quality and professionally in Croatia despite financial poverty, insufficient number of employees and the space it has. You said you didn't realize that with all the state institutions financed from the budget, the state auditor can learn, he can't go to the National Bank. Why is the door closed there? Secondly, you said the National Bank hasn't been doing business for several years, so there's a lot of doubts about how things are going. And I'm expressing huge doubts, and we don't know how things are. There was accumulated losses of nearly 4 billion kn, instead of contributing 300, 500 million kn each year. However, I am puzzled by the fact that you have discussed this quite differently today compared to your member, the Committee on Finance, who directly supported this law which is college. So please explain a little bit to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129824	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129825	It's hard for me to pollemize now, first of all, I haven't heard that debate you're talking about, but what I do know is that I don't mind setting up a revision that way towards an institution called the CNB, I think it's one of the discussions that we've been through a lot of times over the past few years, and there was a consensus, and HDZ was for that while it was MOST in power, it seems to me that they were also saying that. Well, I remember a colleague of Goran Maric who had been shruging around here for years and looking for the same things, so, I'm even a little confused, I'm convinced that there's a will for why it's still not happening, it's a question that it's hard to get an answer, maybe we can get an answer through the activities of Prime Minister Plenkovic who obviously understood the CNB as his institution where he can politically love, which we saw with the situation around Sandra Švaljek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129826	Thank you very much. We would therefore conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129827	All right, good afternoon, everybody. Nine and 31 minutes. Let's get started. There is a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the State Audit Office. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Ivan Lovrinović, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, MP Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoja, MP Tomislav Panenić, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is State Secretary Mr Zdravko Zrinasic, here you are, at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129828	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129829	Yeah, we got it on the plate. The first amendment is the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129830	The amendment also accepts the adoption of the proposed amendment as a whole establishing the procedure for proposing and adopting, both the State Audit Office's financial plan and its amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129831	So, good. The amendment becomes an integral part of the final bill. The second is the amendment of the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129832	Compared to Art. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the first amendment of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, i.e. the subject and manner of carrying out the CNB audit in the form currently mentioned in this final draft law, is in line with the European Central Bank's opinions on how to carry out the audit of the central banks. In accordance with the above, the appropriateness of the proposed arrangement has been confirmed by the opinion of the European Central Bank of 26 October last year, which was given on the basis of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 127(4) Article 282. 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and in accordance with Article.../incomprehensible/... 2 st. 1 Council Decision 98/415 E.Z.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129833	You'd also like to make a statement, Mr. Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129834	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We're not accepting your argument and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129835	Okay, they'll vote on the amendment. It is the third, and you have partly responded to this and this amendment, but I would ask that it be obvious about Mr Ivan Lovrinović's amendment to the article. 9th century 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129836	Therefore, the subject matter and the way in which the CNB audit is carried out in the form currently mentioned in this final draft law is in line with the opinions of the European Central Bank on how central banks are audited. And as I said earlier, the appropriateness of the proposed arrangement was confirmed by the opinion of the European Central Bank of 26 October last year, under No. KON 218/45, and this opinion shall be given on the basis of Article 2(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 218/45. Paragraphs 127, 4 and 282 of the 5th century. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and in accordance with Article.../incomprehensible/... 2 st. 1 Council Decision 98/415 E.Z.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129837	Representative Lovrinovic is not here, so we will vote on the amendment. 4th is the amendment of the Society of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA to Art. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129838	- No, no, no, no, no, no, The amendment is not accepted. This final proposal allows for the implementation of the CNB audit, with respect for the EU legal framework applicable to the operations of central banks, and without prejudice to the heads of institutional independence of the Member States. Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 7th Statute of the European System of Central Banks relating to the work of the European Central Bank. As regards the proposal for the revision of the CNB to be carried out once a year, according to the final draft law, the frequency of implementation develops the State Audit Office autonomously determines on the basis of its own risk assessment of the State Audit Office itself under its annual programme and work plan. Also in art. Article 19(1) of the final draft law provides that the Croatian Parliament may make a request to the State Audit Office, to carry out any audits, as well as to the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129839	You want to be obvious? Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129840	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. In fact, this revision that you are proposing is a paper-only revision, it may not be, and it is essentially covered by the EU's said, and that is enough, so we must all accept it blindly without any practicality and for this reason we disagree with your opinion and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129841	Thanks for the vote. Thank you. 5 is the amendment of Mr Ivan Lovrinović's representative to Article 1(2), please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129842	Thank you for the amendment not accepted. In view of the fact that this final proposal provides for a revision of the CNB in the framework of Article 11 of the final draft law. Following this definition, the revision covered you have on the financial operations of the CNB, and what is proposed in this amendment to the respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129843	There's no Mr. Lovrinovic, so he'll vote. 6th Amendment of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA to Article 12(2) Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129844	The amendment is not accepted. This final proposal for a law with a review of the financial report and of the overall business, which is carried out by independent external auditors under the current CNB Act, also gives the power to carry out the audits to the State Audit Office. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Act on the CNB independent external auditors, the selection of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, and its report is an integral part of the annual report of the CNB. As regards the proposal for a revision of the CNB once a year, the justification is the same as for the amendments, which we have so far made in contact with the plan and work of the State Audit Office in the context of their own risk assessment and the determination of frequency. As mentioned in Article 19(1) of the final draft law, the Croatian Parliament can always refer to the request of the State Audit Office and to the conduct of the audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129845	You'd like to explain, Mr. Bunzac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129846	I want to thank you. So I repeat once again, we are introducing an audit, which has no authority or deadlines, when that revision should be carried out. So, this whole story, about some changes to the law, is actually groundless and serves only to formally meet some demands, to die to the public, but actually everything stays the way it was before. And this specifically means that the CNB is completely out of the reach of the Croatian state, that it is in fact neither Croatian nor national or bank, but it is actually private property I do not know who, but as it seems, certainly not Croatian citizens. For this reason, we do not accept your argument and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129847	Voting? Yeah. Seven amendments, Mr. Maras asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have called to appeal to you, to pass this practice on to the President of the Parliament, to interrupt more with this way of explaining the amendments, until people are present and voting on it. So in this situation we've been in, all 15 of us, 20 of us in the assembly, people will be here in an hour and a half, a bunch of them won't even know what they're voting on, nor have they heard the arguments, the colleagues who proposed the amendments. So that's what the Parliament called it, that's how it didn't work. So, I urge you to pass on to the President of the Parliament, to restore normal parliamentary practice, so that people can explain when voting the amendment, which they have submitted to vote on. This really merits Parliament's work, this prevents Parliament's quality work, i.e. that people vote in the way they should vote, when they hear arguments. This just looks like parliament's technical station is support, government, ministry and just push buttons. I beg you, Mr. Vice President. I ask that common sense be applied. ... [[Mr. Maras, I get it, but you have to tell me, you're looking for a break, you have to tell me just form normally around other things this.]] [[You're looking for a break?]] I beg you to pass it on to the President of the Parliament. [[Intruder Radin: It will remain in the record, thank you very much.]] You agree yourself that it's probably not logical for people to vote not to know what they're voting on. [[Intruder Radin: I will, thank you very much, will remain in the record.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129849	Thank you very much, but I need to know the form. You understand that. Thank you, thank you. [[/Intruder Maras: Form is to introduce common sense into the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.]] Yesterday it was announced, I can and privately agree with you, however, it entered the agenda as such and now we do the agenda, but it will be transferred, to the 7 just stops, right? 7 MP Ivan Lovrinović, also on Article 12(2), here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129850	Thank you very much. As stated in the reasons, i.e. on the 1st amendment of the honourable representative, I remind again of the day of the opinion of the European Central Bank. According to them, if the operation of the National Central Bank, the subject of the control of the State Audit Office or of a similar part responsible for the control of the use of public finances, the scope of the control, in addition, should be clearly established by the legal framework, it should be without prejudice to the tasks of the examination of all accounts and accounts, and in accordance with the principle of institutional independence, it should be in accordance with the prohibition of giving instructions. In this respect, in accordance with this final draft law, the revision of the CNB, is carried out in accordance with the audit standards of the international organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the so-called ‘Staff’. ... and with the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors as well as any other audit carried out by the State Audit Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the proposal for a revision of the CNB to be carried out once a year, as I have mentioned several times today, it is stressed that the State Office for the Audit sets out the frequency of the audit on the basis of its risk assessment and within the scope of the planned annual programme and the work plans of the State Audit Office. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 19(1) of the final draft law, the Croatian Parliament may refer to the State Audit Office and the CNB as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129851	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, would you like to explain? Here you go, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129852	Of course, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you speak for the government, I am not satisfied with your explanation, what is this all about? This is actually the plan to hear the citizens. In recent months, the government has been one 2 years since we came to the Parliament, the party We apply Croatia, we keep talking, send the State Audit to the CNB. We don't know what's going on out there, we don't know what the real state of things is. There, over the past year and a half, they have achieved a total loss of €3 billion 800, which they have additionally committed to Croatia for 2 billion euros, which are major problems. Then this is how the government thinks about it with Prime Minister Plenkovic. So let's not get locked up anymore, let's do the State Review to get there but in our direction, and that looks like this. Let's send them there but so we narrow down the scope of jobs there that will work to make it a purely one performance that when they finish the job there and their work you know dear citizens, which will be according to this bill? So I can watch how much they spent, how many buildings, cars, etc., and then a report is written that they were, that everything's fine and we don't really know anything. This is the continuation of the usual policy that has been conducted so far, so to speak, one works, another thinks, it is a policy of eye rubdown and thus the State Review as one of the few professional institutions that works well in Croatia, it is well done, it is detonated. It comes down to formality and all the powers are given to the commercial audit ordered by the CNB, it's paid, and then you can imagine what control it is. Therefore, you are only referring to the European Central Bank, the European Commission, which is why in Croatia you have subordinated everything to the interests of Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129853	Are you asking for a vote? ... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Amendment 8, to the Legislative Committee, also in Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129854	Thank you, the amendment is accepted because it's about nomotechnical change.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129855	He accepts. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129856	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as set out in the reasons for the amendment of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, therefore the method in question of carrying out the CNB's audit in the form currently mentioned in the final draft law, is in line with the opinion of the European Central Bank on how to carry out the audit of the central banks. I would remind you that these opinions are given on the basis of an EU operating contract, so it is important to say in this regard that it is not only an opinion whether it is for the sake of opinion but also an obligation. Furthermore, as regards the follow-up of the audit in that opinion, point 314 of the opinion of the European Central Bank, it is further stated that the provisions of the draft law in accordance with the principle of independence of the Central Bank including institutional independence, in particular the procedure in which the Governor may make his statement on the draft audit reports to be submitted to the report on the audit carried out and not accepted as well as that the CNB should not be obliged to submit a plan for the implementation of the mandate or recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129857	An explanation, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129858	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear state statesman, MOST is a political option that consistently advocated the entry of the State Audit into the CNB. So consistent that we proposed it three times, it was voted here in the Croatian Parliament, but last time we had a situation that Governor Vujčić wanted to protect him from the State Audit, he asked to intervene so that the State Audit would not enter the CNB. What makes me happy as a representative of a political option is that what we are asking for, that we impose in public discourse, the government eventually starts to implement in some way, but it always happens that it does not happen in the way that we want it to be. You have done something to satisfy a part of the public, so you can say that the State Audit is entering the CNB but you did not predict that the CNB is delivering to the State Office for Auditing the Implementation Plan and Recommendations on the basis of the State Audit Office's report. You haven't actually done anything because CNB means you don't have to do, deliver a plan to execute a warrant or a recommendation. What's the use of getting the State Audit into the CNB? We will continue here in the Croatian Parliament to insist on the actual entry of the State Audit into the CNB. It is unfortunate that our proposal was then rejected by both the opposition and the ruling, we will continue to insist on transparency as much as this government has opposed this transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129859	Ask for a vote Okay. [[Grmoya raider: Looking for a vote.]] Now it's Amendment No. 10, of Nikola Grumoje’s representative, as referred to in Article 13(6).
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129860	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as mentioned earlier in the explanation for the amendment of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović and the club of MOST independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129861	Mr. Grmoya, here's your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129862	So, all these requirements that went towards the entry of the audit into the CNB were explained by the desire for business transparency, the spending of public funds, we saw all the money being spent in the CNB, and the Government under the influence of Governor Vujčić, who during the euphoria around the World Football Championship, has always been responsible for not touching the independence of the CNB. This is not about demands to influence the change in monetary policy, this is about requirements concerning transparency, spending of public funds, and you are probably influenced by what you have done about Agrokor, in which the governor of the CNB was one of the key actors who even met with representatives of this American Fund, so you have protected him and in this case, you have rewarded him with a new mandate and you want to do nothing about increasing transparency, meaning, and the fact that Croatian citizens, but also we as parliamentary representatives want to know how public money is spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129863	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129864	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129865	Thank you. Amendment No. 11 MPs Tomislav Panenic, in the same article. 13th and the same section 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129866	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons that we mentioned earlier in the light of amendments by respected representatives of Lovrinović, Mr Grumoja and the Club of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129867	There is no Mr Panenic, there will be votes on this amendment. Amendment 12, Representative Miro Bulj, also art. 13, also section 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129868	So, the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129869	Thank you. You want to explain the amendment now, Mr. Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129870	You are referring to the article. 13, you are refuting the entry of the audit, the Offices of State Audits into the CNB because you say that the CNB is not obliged to deliver the Office for Auditing the Implementation Plan of Orders or Recommendations, which means that the State Audit has no basis for entering the CNB and carrying out the audit. Here the Trig just pass, means that the CNB is obliged to submit to the State Audit Office a plan of implementation of the order or recommendation. However, you have said this law to the State Audit, but there is no basis for entering, there is no basis for a revision, and of course this is another Pear Law and you, by this law, are essentially, this article, all that is mentioned in this bill, in these amendments, in the final draft of the law, are essentially disproved. You hold the scales here for our CNB governor, who made it from the CNB, at least that Croatian, is his only one, was Todorovic when he was giving him a huge guarantee without a debt, without a 10 billion cover, I also raised a criminal application, the DORH, for two years now, the DORH has not one word on it. So, enough with the falling of the fallen fish with the wines, enough looking for cooks who know how to do it, huge money is spent, who knows about in the CNB has the highest salary and I don't see any reason why the State Audit wouldn't go in, and by this law, you've passed the State Audit Act in the CNB, and you've made it impossible for the State Audit to enter the CNB if there's no basis when there's no plan, no warrant or implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129871	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129872	I'm asking for a vote, but it's sad not to vote right now to see the MPs who will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129873	Are you asking for a vote? Yeah, I didn't hear, okay. Amendment No. 13. The Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA in Art. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129874	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as we just said, which apply to the article. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129875	Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129876	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. It is a pity that the State Audit cannot enter the CNB for various reasons, and one of them is certainly also those high wages and receipts, different bonuses that are paid. Here, for example. The deputy governor of the CNB has 40 million kuna worth of property, has two private planes, given his salary, he should be working one 160 years. that for the sake of these 40 million kunas, but that neither eat nor dress, nor pay the director, nor have any other cost. So these are some issues that the public is interested in how it is possible, therefore, that one civil servant, one working man, therefore, does not work in the private sector, but in the public service has so much of a huge property that is incompatible with his salary, and on the other hand his superior, Governor Vujčić, he does not have a single kuna in the property card, so that it is the most poor in the Republic of Croatia, he is essentially at the level of the social case, and here I suggest to the representatives to collect some charity to bring to the governor, so that he will not be poor without bread and milk, because he simply has no man, no, and perhaps the State Audit would find out how it happened anyway, so maybe this problem could be solved and permanent. We don't accept your argument and ask for a vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129877	The vote is now the 14th and last amendment of MP Ivan Lovrinović, also in the article. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129878	The amendment is not accepted, as is the reason I mentioned earlier in the article. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129879	Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, would you like an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129880	Mr. Secretary of State, you convey messages from the Government, the Government behaves in this proposal, it shows that it is simply speaking, it says, ordered by the European Central Bank, and that is not true, it is written in the Treaty of Accession of the EU, and that is not true, but to ask you all here in HS, do you know who has negotiated and run key chapters from the economy, 7 chapters of 35, led by Martina Dalic and Boris Vujčić, so these are the same people who have already been 20 years. They burn and burn, bright and cloudy in the Republic of Croatia as far as the economy is concerned. Let's go back to this bill that protects, in fact, it leads not to the transparency of the work of the CNB but rather to the protection of the governor and the leadership, the individual members of the CNB leadership for failures, losses, external debt that they have increased, etc. In this context, I asked for a month ago and got 34 signatures from the MPs and asked for a public hearing here at HS Governor on these issues, the President of the Parliament refused, I wrote a complaint to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, however, asked the question why the CNB, it was positively discriminated against by the Constitutional Court, the Ministry, etc. There when a state audit comes and certain remarks, the changes orders, they have to do so, and here the government has written that only the CNB does not have to or does not have to pay attention to what the State Audit Office says. To change.../incomprehensible/... when citizens give her the mandate to lead the state we will immediately amend the Law on the CNB, the Law on State Audit, introduce order into our beautiful Croatia and show that we can do what needs to be done and remove political corruption, service towards Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129881	... ask for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The vote. We're crossing now. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129882	We're going to another point now, thank you, thank you and good-bye. ... This is the final proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, second reading, P.Z. No. 499. [[Applause]] The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Ivan Lovrinović, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, MP Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoja, MP Tomislav Panenić and the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. The amendment review was submitted by electronic means, and the amendment statement was carried out earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, so let's go in turn, the first amendment of the Committee on Finance and the state budget is accepted, the second amendment is not accepted by the Government, it is the amendment of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, so we should vote, please vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. The third amendment by MP Ivan Lovrinovic is not accepted by the government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The fourth amendment of the Living Wall and Power Club is not accepted by the Government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The fifth amendment by MP Ivan Lovrinovic is not accepted by the government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Six. The Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the Powery Government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 7th Agent Ivan Lovrinović, the Government does not accept, please let us vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8 The Legislative Committee has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 9, the club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists doesn't accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 10 MPs of Nikola Grumoja, the government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 11 MPs Tomislav Panenic, the government does not accept, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 12 MPs of Mira Bulja, the government does not accept, please let us vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 13 The Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the Power, the Government does not accept, please let us vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And Amendment No. 14 MPs Ivan Lovrinović, the government does not accept, so I ask the vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. There's a colleague called Bulj for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129883	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break because of this final proposal of the State Audit Office Act to consult and also to tell you in these two minutes that the Most is already running long, ever since we've been here. We asked that State Audit to the CNB. Even here was the vote, unfortunately, neither the opposition, the majority of the opposition or the position did not accept it, and by the current law which is the PR law, the CNB is not obliged to deliver to the State Office for the revision of the implementation plan and recommendations. We have sought and based on this audit there is no basis to carry out an audit in the CNB or is obliged to carry out an audit and this is simply one PR move of the Government that says we will have an office, the State Audit will be able to carry out an audit in the CNB which is false, which is Article 13 in essence to repeal all the provisions of this audit law. I would ask you once again to take a good look at what we're bringing, we're passing a law that doesn't protect the general interest, where the CNB behaves like some body that's above the Parliament and the Republic of Croatia, we're asking here that only the business of the CNB be established, means audit and their business, and you know how much wages they have, that they don't need contracts for employment, that the governor behaves as he wants, imposes his policy within the CNB on employment. Have you seen their wages? Three times bigger than the Presidents of the Republic. Have you seen their cooks' contests that have to combine crafts into fish and wine? I know you can't do this, but trust me, you're not working in the public interest, protecting the governor who did bad things for the Republic of Croatia and the National Bank that made it catastrophic for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129884	Thank you. The apartment will be approved, thank you. My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129885	Thank you. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA with the following explanation. Here we have before us a vote on the new Law on the State Audit Office, the law puts the CNB outside of all other entities that are being audited. So far, even a better position has been in terms of entering the CNB audit is something now. Mr Ivan Klešić clearly tells you in his answer to my representative's question how the status of the CNB will change. The CNB will take a private auditor who will write her the most beautiful report in the world, as the auditors wrote for Agrokor, as they write for MOL, for the Sisak refinery and what remains, remains, what Governor Vujčić will not want to make a private audit, it will give to the State Audit. That's what the law says here. So that's how much the state audit is marginalized. The Constitution or laws shall be written by the central audit authority. Then how is a private audit beyond that? So we're talking about the degradation, the derogation of that body. We also plan to send this law if it votes now, on the assessment of constitutionality, because what will the State Audit do if we restrict it in this way? The second thing, the entry of the Croatian audit into the National Bank is not a speech because the revision clearly states in chapter 4. what it will check there. So they're going to check the real estate, the movables, the equipment, they're going to count the pens, the computers of the buildings, they're not going to ask where the gold is, they're not going to ask where the losses of 2.5 billion kuna in the balance sheet, so this is protection, additional protection of the CNB, additional extraction of that institution and of this state, and I could just say, this law clearly has written a click there in the CNB which is neither Croatian nor the people, nor is the bank for which it wrote and a whole series of laws to myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129886	Thank you. My fellow Son, thank you. The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 11 and 27, thank you. It's 11:17 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] For this point, in accordance with Article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, i.e. for the adoption of this law, require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office. Please, let's vote. I find 79 votes for, 14 abstentions and 14 against, and thus passed the Law on the State Audit Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129888	And now we will move to the next point, which is: - The final proposal of the Law implementing the EU regulation 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 on the resolution of the issue of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market on the basis of citizenship, place of residence or place of business established client and amending Regulations (EC) 2006/2004 and (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 458; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Does the Proposer's representative want to give you an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Natasa Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129889	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. Please allow me to present to you in short the proposal, the Final Proposal of this Law, therefore, which concerns the implementation of Regulation 2018/302 of 28 February 2018. The Regulation shall apply from 3 December 2018 and shall be adopted in order to prevent discrimination between consumers and clients on grounds of nationality, based on the place of residence or place of establishment, in cross-border transactions, meaning in trade between them, which are therefore located in the territory of the European Union. Why do I tell clients with consumers? Because companies, especially micro-enterprises, are often in a similar position in the purchase of goods or in the purchase of certain services, as well as consumers of individuals. Therefore, all these groups, all of them, are protected from discrimination by this Regulation for the reasons set out above. The adoption of this Act allows for the implementation of the Regulation in question and, to that end, it is therefore ensured, by the final proposal of the Law itself, that it determines the competent authority and its tasks, therefore, the bodies responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. These are the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts and the State Inspectorate in part of the inspection. The provisions of the infringement against the regulation are then laid down, and the body responsible for providing practical assistance to consumers should there be a dispute between traders and consumers, and this body is the European Consumers Centre, which also operates with the Ministry of Economy. By adopting this Act, Croatia therefore fulfils on the one hand the obligations it has made by entering the European Union, but we also expect that this will lead to an increase in e-commerce between Croatia and other countries, and on the other hand, what is of course the most important, that consumers and traders will be given the right and for greater choice, and to greater security in cross-border transactions. The Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Legislatives supported the final proposal of this Law, between the first two, between the first and the first reading, therefore, there was no amendment to the very text of the Law, or there was one minor new technical amendment, and following all of this, we propose that this Final Proposal be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129890	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129891	... , esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are facing today the Final Proposal for this Law, which should address the issues of unwarranted geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market of the European Union, as we have heard here. The purpose of this Act is primarily beneficial for all countries, especially Croatia, because it refers to those countries that are due to their geographical location or place of residence, i.e. the established business entity of the client, or even the consumer, were or could be discriminated against by other countries, especially when we talk about online purchase. This Law certainly helps to protect consumers, and as we had an example, the competent body within the Ministry is called the European Consumer Centre and is responsible for providing practical assistance to consumers in the event of a dispute between consumers and traders, but I will also remind the competent authority in the case of a dispute between customers and traders, which we know is the State's competent market inspection. This Law also includes infringements, ranging from 10.00 to 100,000,00 kuna, and of course applies to legal persons, i.e. traders, in case they do not comply with the Law, which is also a very useful measure. And so far, as I have spoken between the two readings when this Law is concerned, therefore, it was possible to sell goods or to provide services, not equal quality for Croatia and other countries, first of all here we are talking about e-commerce, or online purchase. Since there is a constant emphasis in the European Union on the need and aspirations for a single digital market, this means that such differences should not be present or should not exist between Member States, or between consumers within those Member States. That is why this Law in itself has taken over these Directives that we have talked about, mentioned them between the two readings, and these Directives, and this Law, will ensure this, and the goal that ultimately wants to be achieved within the EU is not only a single digital market that we are talking about and is not only a single one on a line of purchase without distinction in the Member States, but a single digital market generally when we talk about services, services and all information and communication tools, so that Member States are equal to each other in that segment, and especially consumers who will use these services. And I see this law as a contribution to this segment, as is a step forward in protecting consumers, as well as business entities from Croatia within the EU market, or when they trade and operate on the EU market. That is why the HDZ Club fully supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129892	Thank you very much and the next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. And if you'll excuse the independent MPs, I'm sorry I got a little confused. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you know how they say who's doing this and wrong, right? Thank you. So, I would really keep this very, very short, I think, however, so our club will certainly, certainly, support this law, I think this is an excellent example especially in the time we are in, the time before the European elections, and how we can show the citizens of Croatia that the EU is actually good for the citizens. As the colleague said, this is one way to achieve equality among citizens of different EU countries. I think that among other things, something that I would like as a small parentheses, which I think is a good argument to all those who are, in a vivid sense, those who are supporters of this deregulation and believe that the market is infallible and that, as a principle, it can manage everything and that nothing needs to be regulated further. So, from the perspective of one small Member State and its citizens this is definitely one way in which it is necessary and necessary, among other things, to actually affect that our citizens in this community where we are, the EU community, to be, to be equal. Another thing to say, even though it may not work that way at first, and I would say it again, I think some of these things should be said here and there, regardless of what we might be talking about in front of a practically empty assembly, which we're talking about in front of a very narrow circle of people, but I think that if there's nothing else then for, so to speak, doctorically, it's necessary to say that these laws are, in the 21st century today, among other things, the way of achieving or redefining sovereignty. So, I think in the time we live in, it's very difficult to edit the digital eco system when you're small and you're alone. The big international corporations are bigger than many countries in Croatia to my great sadness, it is not particularly difficult to be, bigger, and that is why, among other things, within the EU, we get the opportunity to be equal and to actually be united with others and to make some kind of balance to it. It's like I said, it's real sovereignty, at a time where we live largely in the digital space of physical boundaries are not of course irrelevant and will never be irrelevant but in fact they are how, and how important it is to define what digital democracy is and what its mechanics are and what it means in this digital eco system is. And this is exactly what I'm saying is one of the ways we can actually protect our citizens. There are other examples, one of them is, among other things, she and the way copyrights are being edited digitally, but I also think it's important to keep in mind one caveart, so when we deal with these things, it's important to think about possible consequences, it's very easy to reach out for some relatively fast solutions without thinking about their consequences and we had examples right here, in this Directive that was governed by copyright digital, as it could actually have been serious, serious possibilities for it not to destroy the Internet as it was, especially in the part about filtering the content before it was published and, for example, to regulate freedom of speech or hate speech on the Internet. So there's, there's a need here to say that there's no such thing here in this particular example. I think this is very well done and I think that although there is, of course, space for some other things, this is not the perfect solution, but I think it's very good, but I say in general for future such things, I think we all need to be much more aware and much more involved about these solutions and about the solution to issues concerning digital democracy and the digital eco system. Like I said, our counseling club is gonna back this up, this is really good, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129894	Thank you very much, in the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and SNAGE will now speak to the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129895	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to read the law that has come to order today, the Final Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 on the resolution of the issue of unwarranted geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market on the basis of citizenship, place of residence or place of business of the client, and amending the Regulation of the EC something and the Directive some more so. What am I trying to tell you? We are being visited by these directives from the EU and Brussels. So, they come to you all the time and all these directives are turned into laws, and then all these laws have to be implemented or they have to be voted on, and actually, that's what Mrs. Shuica, that even 2/3 of the laws voted in HS come from Brussels and in my court a vast majority of these directives do not need us, one of those directives that we received from the EU was that we need to amend the INA Privatisation Act, which, in many cases, will make it easier for the Hungarians to control the INA and break the influence of the Republic of Croatia in the national oil company. Why did we have to vote that people, that warrant, the law, why? Ha, because the EU has asked us to do so, new directives are coming today. However, there was a law in its own time which the HS voted unanimously, which went on record for the benefit of Croatian citizens, called the Law on the Vulnerability of Loan Contracts concluded with unauthorized creditors outside the Republic of Croatia, and that law prevented hundreds of works and real estate enforcement. And now what? You have on one side of the EU Directive to be implemented, which no one can discuss here in Zagreb, which must be followed by an urgent procedure and must be voted upon, and if not, then penalties, sanctions, etc. And on the other hand, you have one law that came from the people, by the citizens, wanted that law and the citizens protested, asking to stop the performances done by these RBAs from Austria, etc. And then what happens? Then this law that we all agreed here falls in the European Court of Justice and says the European Court, and no, no, you can't do the laws you want, you can't protect the real estate of people that foreign credit institutions have decided to execute, and no, no, it doesn't work like that, even if they didn't have the CNB's permission to work, so it doesn't matter. And what do I mean by that? I want to tell you that the Republic of Croatia is in a completely subordinate position today, that the government has been alienated from the people, that the opinion not only of the citizens, but also of the EU Directive itself does not matter, so, the EU Directive is coming, they are binding, we have to implement them, we want them, we do not want them, I vote in general against these directives, but essentially, if most of them in the HS refused the Directive, then the EU would punish us and sanction us in various ways. And on the other hand, if we reflect the will of the people and starting from the assumption that the government belongs to the people and that by choosing its representatives, the people decide on their fate and we as GLAS and the representatives of the people to pass a law that protects against foreign credit institutions, which without the permission of the CNB in the Republic of Croatia, then the EU can bring down our law and we can't do anything, like no, no, so you have to accept it, and in fact, what the Republic has become, from the present state, become a colony of Western imperialism, colonialism and Westernism, I would say one arrogant relationship and against us humiliating. The Republic of Croatia today is a hostage of estranged political elites who are the well-being of our citizens in second place, and are in the first place the European project. And why is the European project their first priority? That is why, in my court, because they found a place for themselves in these syncrums, they found a place for themselves in the European Commission, in the European Parliament and in the various EU institutions, and the EU is great for them, and that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or the day after that, they will depose those RBA cooperatives from Austria, ha, ha, ha, no one here breaks their heads about it. Why? Because they're looking at themselves. We in the Living Wall are also competing for a seat in the European Parliament, but that is not our goal in the sense that we want to stay there until the day of judgment, we can choose, we would move away from there tomorrow, just so that the Republic of Croatia is no longer part of that formation that, like Frankenstein, simply grabs and breaks everything in front of us, which is crumbling small countries and peoples and whose goal is ultimately, you all know, the Federal Europe project, means, after the elimination of borders, the establishment of a single currency, a single foreign policy, a single trade policy, etc. etc., ultimately to make the EU something similar to the US and to do so, it is necessary to break up the national states and this whole agenda of illegal migration that the EU is pushing, meaning, these attacks of illegal migrants and mass illegal migration to the EU, all of which are subordinated to the disintegration of national states, not for the sake of small peoples or any other people, but only for the purpose of destroying national states, in order to establish a Federal Europe. This is the essence of the whole story and all of the European directives that go towards unifying legal practice, or that we all have the same laws, are in the service of this agenda. So, today we pass this law so that in all other Member States there is an identical law, so that we have identical legislation, so think about why this is done. Obviously, the goal is to centralize the system. The goal is to make decisions from one center of power for all, not that we make decisions as we wish. And those voters who support the political parties that are for the EU, for the project, must be aware that they are working against their country, taking away its sovereignty, deprive us of the right to decide because our decisions are to destroy whoever they want there in Brussels and, worst of all, take away the future from their children. They're taking away the opportunity for our children to be economically free, which is not at the moment, this economic exploitation that Brussels and Washington through these Western creditors are working against our country will continue until the moment we're not going to lose anything. The goal is to privatize everything in the end. The goal is all the resources our country has, the goal is to deliver them into the hands of foreigners. Today, the law on the privatisation of INA and its changes that are going in this direction passed. All amendments to the law will go that way. If, for example, we will not want to privatise the water in Zagreb and, say, privatize the water and drain company, now come the new EU directives that Brussels can say, no, no, as we do not care what you want or do not want, you will, can undo the decision and local self-government. So, so far, Brussels has torn down Parliament's decisions and installed us in the Parliament which laws we will be making. And now this extends slowly to the units of local self-government, thereby completely denying the will of citizens or people living in Croatia, as well as to us who are their representatives. And I would like to finally set an example of a man who presents himself as a great friend of Brussels, a great European, and he is actually a great liar and will now read. Here, that's, that's this message. It was from the Nationals ahead of the parliamentary elections, says Mr Plenkovic, MOL will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak. Here's the guy, and you've got his promises left, and God regrets the people who believe in them because they're gonna be disappointed. Please, Croatian people, open your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129896	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which they will speak the respected representative of Bozica Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the most respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what my colleague, my predecessor, has finished, I'll start. Croatian peoples open their eyes and see if this law harms or harms you because it is about greater protection and our consumers. We witnessed many situations when we said that we are not in an equal position as other consumers in the EU. And that is why we are transposing these directives from the EU into our legislation and becoming part of an equal European market, including that digital one. And it is this law that addresses issues of direct and indirect discrimination based on citizenship, residence or place of establishment of a client, including unwarranted geographical blocking in cross-border transactions between traders and clients regarding the sale of goods and the provision of services within the EU. There are consumers, whether as private persons, whether as clients, it is micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, who buy online and who often have certain advertising, but so far they have not been adequately solved, in which way their complaints and advertising will be resolved. In this law in Art. 3 It is prescribed that the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts within which the European Consumer Centre is established will be a competent body for providing practical assistance to consumers in the event of a dispute between consumers and traders relating to the discriminatory treatment of traders based on nationality or place of residence. I am not going to go into the details of how difficult it was for the IP address and everything else, how it was determined and how they treated us when we came from Croatia as customers and when we were really in an unequal position. Now we, as a small country, become a member of a regulated European market and will certainly contribute to the greater protection of our consumers, and therefore the HNS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129898	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate in which the first respected representative, Tomislav Sokol, will discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Secretary of State. Well, I didn't mean to report for an individual debate, but there's been said through some club debates, especially fellow Pernar, so much inaccuracy that I just have to react. First, the debate where the colleague talked about the directives, this is about the regulation, shows that, as always, he has not read the law at all and that he does not even know what the directive is, what the regulation is, etc. So, the directives are the European regulations that, after being voted at European level, which also include Croatian lawmakers in the EU Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Government in the Council of Ministers, the state must implement through its national legislation. On the other hand, as is the case here, they are not fully implemented, they are directly already applicable, but only necessary to adopt an implementing regulation within the meaning of which bodies will be competent, within which time limit etc. So, here, a colleague shows that he doesn't really know the minimum of facts about what we're discussing. The second thing, says a colleague, is also said that laws like this are being passed because they are not imposed by the EU. So this law is not passed because it has been imposed by the EU, which some colleagues would know they have read the material, but rather because they are good and bring positive shifts for Croatian citizens. So specifically this Regulation concerns consumer protection and this is part of a full legislative package of the legal framework that regulates consumer protection at European level. All the achievements related to consumer protection, the obligation to publish means the origin of goods, meeting standards, publishing information, preventing illegal commercial practices have actually come from the EU and all this is the achievement of the legal EU, and ultimately the whole story of credits taken in Swiss is also related to EU law, as counterpart Alexic has repeatedly said here, and these European standards of consumer protection are what led to the improvement of the position of debtors in the Republic of Croatia, for which the Living Wall is a declarative struggle, but we see that they do not really care at all, but they care about getting a few points in public and end up on television when they make an incident. So this means here it is about rules that are of quality, regulations that bring concrete benefits, benefits for Croatian consumers, and in this way we can actually say that it is through this protection of national interest because I think it is the protection of consumers of all our citizens and how national interest. Furthermore, the law so-called "the law" is also mentioned. Lex Skibola related to credit cooperatives. Now I would say a few things to the public, so colleague Pernar and fellow living-wall colleagues are trying to sort of take that law over to themselves, present it to the public as if they were somehow responsible for protecting that category of debtors, but they have nothing to do with it. If we are talking about Croatian breaks in the Croatian Parliament, HDZ has just been while the party was in opposition, which provided maximum support and supported initiatives to resolve the problem of those debtors. And that's what the public needs to know. And on the other hand, that law, the so-called law, was also passed. Lex Skibola, so this is exactly HDZ was the party that advocated the protection of that category of debtors and how well they and how well, believe me they know very well. Mostly as far as the law itself is concerned, so this concrete law is based on the procedure for the previous issue to the EU Court and the EU Court of Justice has estimated that some of its elements are not in line with the rules on freedom of movement of capital, that is, what is legitimate. However, the fact is that within the EU, freedom of movement of capital can be limited, it is not absolute like other freedoms of movement, but such a restriction must be justified by some public interest. And I believe that, with not too many amendments to that law and with little justification supported by a small number of statistics, such as the number of debtors whose protection has been passed and for which it is a public interest, the law will be able to be completed and brought into line with EU rules at a later stage. However, this requires concrete measures and procedures, it requires knowledge of European law and it requires simple concrete work on the well-being of Croatian citizens, not banging, not drilling into the chest in the assembly, not calling others out that they are traitors, but very concrete work means solving the specific problems that Croatian citizens have, and here we are talking about one category, which are debtors who have received, who have taken loans from these savings credit cooperatives. So this government is working on it, the ruling majority are precisely these parties, or HDZ, the party that has made and what a great contribution to protect them, and I believe that after certain ambiguities and difficulties are removed, this law will also be in line with EU law and that these citizens will be protected. Also mentioned, migration was mentioned. So there is often a replacement of the thesis that migration means that migration is something that the EU promotes, makes us take illegal migrants, as well as everything that colleagues in the opposition say or almost everything they say in the opposition is also false. I will just point out that Croatia from the European External Border Protection Funds has withdrawn some billions of kuna funds and of these funds are employees of border police officers, over 6,500 of them, they are equipped in the right way, helicopters are purchased, etc., etc. So just thanks to EU funds, we have been given the opportunity to protect our external borders from illegal migration, our borders and so on the EU's external borders. And just one of the conditions for entering the Schengen which is the commitment of this government, that Croatia is able in an efficient way to protect its external border, means towards BiH, Serbia etc. So it's exactly the opposite of what's being imputed to this government and being imputed to the HDZ and being imputed to the EU at the end of the day. So it is precisely this protection of the external border at that level that would not have been without European funds, if it had not been for the common European policy, etc. After all, when we look at it... we have attacks on the other side. Some of us, some of us, are attacking the government and we saw it out there somewhere before Christmas, overprotecting the borders of the Republic of Croatia too effectively, and these attacks are just coming from some circles of nearby opposition. So we should also agree whether the government wants to let illegal migrants break laws or to protect the external border in an effective and adequate manner. Also, water is mentioned that is another lie and misinformation which unfortunately we often hear in the assembly by opposition especially from colleagues from the Living Wall. So water supply is not privatised anywhere in the EU, the EU does not require it at all, it is neither at the end of it nor in any European law. So you have no obligation to privatise public services at all, however, if you have a public service, you must enable competition. So you can't have, so you can't have a state-owned company in a sector that gives it privileges over private firms, that's all. But no privatisation is required anywhere in the way it is imputed, especially those resources that are protected, which represent a public interest such as water, food, agricultural land, etc. So we are, so that's something that I think the public really needs to know. In conclusion, this law is of high quality, it goes towards implementing consumer protection rules, which is of exceptional practical importance to Croatian citizens, which is extremely important to them. It is shown once again that the EU is also good for all parts of Croatian society, how citizens benefit from it and how this government's ruling majority ultimately makes concrete moves on their protection and demagogy, false information, eating manipulations, circuses that work from the opposition, serve them honor, I believe that in European elections citizens will be recognized, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129900	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129901	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, this is primarily a quality law, as I said on behalf of the HDZ Club, which has, apart from the implementation of the Regulation and the purpose and protection of consumers and anti-discriminatory is related to the area created by both consumers and clients. The colleagues who would like to leave the EU are not really aware of how this would be reflected, we also see, for example, the UK and such indiscretions in politics have cost those countries who have allowed a few manipulations and the Republic of Croatia should not go through this, we should not allow that, given that the benefits of EU membership are numerous and HDZ, including Pok. President Tudjman strongly advocated that the Republic of Croatia become a participant and sharer of European processes, EU members Then the pact and all the other associations. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129902	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129903	Thank you very much, so it is precisely the founder of a man who led the foundation of the Croatian state that President Tudjman highlighted EU entry as one of the strategic goals, which is, I think, to point out when some who are calling for national interests, say that the EU is a dungeon of the people, etc. But as far as the concrete law is concerned, it means that discrimination is forbidden, freedom of movement of the Roma is allowed, so isn't that a positive one? So, if we move the obstacles of this type, it means that on the market there will be those who are the best and who can be, who can compete with the price, which is exactly the benefit that consumers have, meaning, a better price, a lower price and a better quality. Of course, this does not mean that everything needs to be fully deregulated, so it is necessary to provide certain standards that the EU prescribes, in order to protect public interest, public health, etc., but for all of this there are legal instruments within EU rights, but they need to be known, not speaking by heart as colleagues on the other side of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129904	Thank you. The following replicas of the respected representative Ante Babic:
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129905	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Sokol, it may not be necessary to investigate, a colleague from the opposition, but it certainly should always be at a time when it can be denied, in fact, those false and incorrect allegations. It is true that implementation and regulations serve to protect Croatian consumers, but in the debate you mentioned migration, so I will remind you, at the end of 2014 and 2015. About 667 000 refugees passed through the Republic of Croatia, and fortunately only we did not become a hot spot then in the EU. In the meantime, from the EU, particularly in 2018. We have received a series of funding for 6500 Croatian police officers, their equipment for financing human potential, education, and all that is necessary for the preservation and security of the country. borders and protection of Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129906	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129907	Thank you, fellow Babic, so I am very glad that you reminded the Croatian public of that. So, at the time of the SDP government we had one thing, I'm going to say open, breaking the law, meaning, missing illegal migrants across the border, I'd say migrants, not refugees, because we didn't know at all who these people were, so, they were released without registration, without legitimacy, without anything, and there really could have been anyone, so that's how the SDP government acted, we were lucky, a set of circumstances that we didn't turn into a hot spot, but that danger still exists, migrations aren't gone, migrations are now less, but that possibility that they always exist, and that's why it's just important to say that this government, the HDZ government of our majority, the government of our laws, respects the European borders, protects the external borders, just the opposite of what is being accused of the public and that public needs to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129908	And the last replicas, the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129909	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Sokol, therefore, I agree with most of what you said. It is also your right to in some way praise the political option you belong to and the solutions you offer, and I agree with you that this legal solution goes against discrimination and so does Croatian citizens. Here, one example is, the European Court of Justice has decided in the case of Eugen Bogatti, a Romanian citizen and that judgment will benefit all of our citizens working in foreign countries whether or not their children are with them or not, that they are entitled to a child's allowance. Similarly in this case, this law goes. What bothered me, why I volunteered for the replica, you're talking to a colleague on this side, an opposition colleague, you know, we in opposition have different opinions, different opinions, and it's not exactly true that we're all talking nonsense, and with this in relation to me here, we have different opinions about what you mentioned, that some services should be privatized publicly because of the monopolies that have a certain Now local companies. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129910	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129911	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I apologize, here, I didn't notice you at that point, there aren't many MPs left on that side, so here I am, sorry I've seen wrong, but I'm glad that, in the opposition, we also have representatives who are a little more serious on the subject, who don't use this room for bombistic statements to get a little media space, but who are entering the topic and I'm glad that you're following the EU court's ruling, it's of great importance, sometimes decisions are against the state, sometimes they're a benefit, but they're based on the right, as was the case for Pula parking related to the performance, public notebooks, etc. And that's something that's good, so the court is impartial, that the court rules by law, and if there are some judgments that we're not satisfied with, we need to see how we can use legal frameworks to comply with them and to achieve the goal we wanted, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129912	Thank you very much. Which concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129913	Let's move on. Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2018/302 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 28.02.2018 on the resolution of the issue of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market on the basis of nationality, place of residence or place of establishment of clients and amending Regulation No 2006/2004 and EU 2017/2394 of Directive 2009/22/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 458. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 106 for and 5 abstentions were passed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129914	We move to the next point, which is: - Annual State aid report for 2017. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 17. State aid laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Whether the applicant's president would like to further explain the report, that the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129915	Thank you, well-respected gentleman under the chairman, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the State Aid Act, on the basis of data from the Register of State aid and small-value support each year, the Ministry of Finance draws up an annual report on State aid, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out to the Croatian Assembly. The concept of state, otherwise the notion of state support in our legislation has been taken over from EU legislation, and, basically, state aid constitutes a real and potential expenditure or a reduced revenue of the state assigned to the State aid provider in any form that distorts or threatens to distort competition. Annual State aid reports, which were first published in 2003, contain data on state aid and small-value aid granted to the Republic of Croatia by central, regional and local donors. In the same report, State support and support of small value are shown by individual categories, by instruments and by other types of data. It should also be recalled that in its annual support report, the European Commission publishes information on the state aid granted to EU Member States. As mentioned in the Annual Report on State aid for 2017 was drawn up on the basis of data from the Register of State aid and small value support in such a way that the State aid provider and the small value of its proposals for a State support programme or individual support programme and the information on the State aid granted to the Ministry of Finance through the Internet application of the Register of State Aid and Small Value Support, which has been operational since 1 January 2017. This year's State aid report contains an analytical representation of the state aid granted for the year 2017 itself and also audited data on the aid granted for 2015 and 2016. The report itself also includes data on the aid granted in agriculture and fisheries, although the State aid Act itself does not include and support in agriculture and fisheries, and in order to look at the overall picture of State aid in the report itself, support in agriculture and fisheries is included, given that it participates with as much as 42% of the total state aid granted in 2017. The basic data from the Annual State Aid Report are the following: State aid and small value support themselves can be allocated through a different form of instruments such as subsidies, direct interest subsidies, tax exemptions, equity shares, financial transfers, issued and activated, or protested guarantees, etc. For such a so-called so-called. support for small-value or deminimum support shall be subject to specific rules of allocation and shall not be considered State aid since, due to the limited amount of EUR 200,000, they do not affect trade between the Republic of Croatia and EU member states. It is noted that the support of small value in 2017 was allocated to the amount of 979.9 million kuna, which is more than 39.7% compared to 2016. As for the total support during '17. The year in the Republic of Croatia was allocated $12.39 billion in support, which is an increase of €974.9 million compared to 2016 or 8.5%, and compared to 2015, this is an increase of €2.51 billion or €25.5%. Also in 2017, the share of the support granted compared to GDP was 3.39%. The share of State expenditure support was 9.92% and employee support amounted to 8807.46 kuna, with a population of 2.950.91 kuna. The support in terms of industry and services was 7.18 billion kuna or 50% of the total GDP support granted is 1.97% higher by 11.1%) or 715.8 million kuna compared to '16. A year, compared to '15. a year even for 2 billion, 2.18 billion kuna or 43.8%. As regards the support to the fisheries sector, 5.2 billion kuna and 42% of the total GDP support granted, respectively, were more than 5.2% or 259.1 million kuna compared to 2016 and 6.7 or 328.5 million kuna compared to 2015. In the very structure of the support sector of industry and services in '17. of the 7.18 billion kuna allocated, sector support accounts for 34.3% of the support amounting to 2.46 billion kuna, while so on. horizontal support including regional support and support at local level amounted to 4.71 billion kuna with a share of 65.7%. With regard to sectoral support and horizontal support themselves, they are further reflected in this report, which is before you in an analytical way, in terms of sectoral support, through 6 different sectoral areas than public radio, from television broadcasting, transport, shipbuilding, postal services, tourism sector and the rehabilitation and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty, and also through horizontal support in a narrow sense, regional support and support at local level. It is also convenient to note just the same as it implies, under horizontal support in a narrow sense, support for research, development, innovation, environmental protection and energy conservation, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for training, employment, culture and for the development of wide-ranging networks, and then within that structure, we can say that support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs has been allocated from 946,2 million, a culture of 447.1 million kuna, for research and innovation development of 348 million, for environmental protection 262.9 million kuna and for the employment of 174 million kuna. The report itself shows that the structure of the state aid granted has begun to change this and has finally started in this year, in most parts of 2017. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. good support, while at the same time reducing the intensity of providing sectoral support, which is a desirable trend to continue in the coming periods. This is one of the important objectives of economic policy that needs to be positive for the economy and to reduce distortions of competition. In view of the above, it is still necessary to take into account the very guidelines of the State aid policy in the Republic of Croatia, which highlight exactly these horizontal objectives most highlighted in the process called ‘Modernisation of State Aid’, which was launched by the European Commission in 2012, which is, in fact, the intensity of economic policy. Accordingly, any State aid provider should respect economic and market principles in the implementation of economic policies, from the proper allocation of state support through monitoring of their use, and at the end and achievement of the objectives set, i.e. strengthening the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Only the use of State aid registers and small-value support enables better monitoring of the effectiveness of granting state aid, and support of small value by all donors, which is particularly important in order to achieve better fiscal consolidation and transparency. Following all of this, the government proposes that the HS adopt this Annual Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129916	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of the Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129917	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, there are more questions than replicas. Namely, I tried to find the data, and I couldn't, it was, you know what I'm missing in this report? It would be interesting to see what kind of support structure the territorial structure is, therefore, according to certain counties, how much support it is, because it could give us some more significant data related to those counties that are economically undeveloped, therefore, compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia or those developed, my assumption is that this cannot be different than to assume that those counties that are more developed to have more support than those counties that are less developed which is naturally in line with the budgets, not only local, but then state-owned, because they themselves from these poorer counties do not have enough of their own resources to attract or to get support. If you have that kind of information, you might want to give us a brief comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129918	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129919	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for asking the question, but analysts themselves are not given in the reports, although they are shown on the page. 6. gives information on regional support, these data can, of course and should and I suggest that we do so in the next report, also dismember regions in terms of the county structure. Perhaps this report has been made in this way for the reason that a good part of regional support is being waste on agriculture, and it will be, I suppose, in Slavonia and Baranja, while some other support which are specific for example shipbuilding will be somewhere at sea, so perhaps that comparability is clumsy in that way looking, but in any case I personally support such a proposal is to enter the analytical and future reports, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129920	Thank you. Would the Committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129921	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, we have before us a State Support Report which, as you can see, is very comprehensive, detailed, very high-quality, and the HDZ Club will support this report. As the State Secretary has already noted, the methodology itself and the 15th-in-a-row report itself, however, the Ministry of Finance has actually been producing this type since 2017, given that the Ministry of Finance has sublimated and united all these reports in a single report, which, according to both the EU and the members, is shown methodically uniquely, so far has been done by the Competition Protection Agency. What is very important is that in 2017. When we follow the sequence and the state support itself in the definition, we see that in 2017 the total support was actually increased by about 975 million kuna and that is, therefore, over 12.3 billion kuna allocated to the Republic of Croatia during 2017. When you look at it, and you can see from the report that it actually increases through this period from 2015 to 2017, so from not full 10 billion it is now at 12.4 billion kuna, which can also talk about that being good, but maybe it's not good in some segments, especially when we look at the structure of the support itself. In the share of state support in GDP, we also see that percentage increasing and it is now at 3.39% When we look at it in relation to itself, it means, per capita support, then we see that it is both nominally and relatively increasing, and they are higher by 232.00 kuna or equal to 2.950.91 kuna, which is 8.5% higher than in 2016. Also in the expenditures of the state, so the amount of support increased and they amounted to over 9.92%, while in 2015 it was only 8.33%. What we can read individually is actually all the support that has been given and only the support structure, what is very interesting to follow, and that is, that is, both horizontal and sectoral support, I would there as well as the specificity of our period and the time in which we live, and for which we have, in fact, a great responsibility but also the consequence that this is bringing. As regards sectoral support from 2015-2017, the period before that could also be considered. So when you look at how nominal the share of shipbuilding or radio-television broadcasting and traffic is, then you'll see that the shipbuilding took a big share in this previous period. However, the large share is certainly still, but constant radio television broadcasting, which again has the consequence of another, therefore, availability to the media. Shipbuilding declines, in 2016 and 2017 respectively. However, when you look at the structure itself, then this is what is happening now, and this is that these support is actually now reflected first through the issued guarantees that were very high in that period. Well, on page 49, you can see that the guarantees were over a billion in 2015. They have fallen by this time period, however, we have a special guarantee issued for Uljanik, a shipyard, which was over 3.6 billion kuna and therefore in 2015 there were a total of 4.6 billion, which 55% of all guarantees were in the shipbuilding sector. So now that we see what's going on in this sector, we see how very interesting it is to actually compare everything that happened during this period and how certain sectors have been using, or how a segment has been stimulated, whether it's this or someone else's. It is also important that support for restructuring resolution e.g. with this distance of time, it is one way to fall significantly, but all of these are actually consequences that continue to take away quite both our energy and our financial resources in the end line so that certain overruns in the economy themselves take place much better and that the market mechanism would actually be as good as possible. As is said, industry and services themselves were done in 2017. 58% of support or 7 entire nearly 2 billion kuna, while in itself, the support of the agriculture and fisheries sector alone was 42% or over 5 billion kuna, which then, 5.2 billion kuna, which is then also about our commitment to our very structure of industrial and agricultural production. I think that this is how the report itself shows how the structure of the state aid granted started and changed, and this is as mentioned that it was headed towards horizontal support, which is so-called. good support, which at the same time reduces the intensity of providing sectoral, which in any case is a desirable trend and in this way, should actually be very careful and very high-quality management of the aid itself, which obliges us and in relation to the very definition of support, therefore, not to distort the market mechanism. And just this way, we believe that with such a quality analysis and records that it can then respond in quality and timely time and direct support where it really is needed and that it can be very well run by economic policy, and also develop both industry and agriculture. Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, we have before us a State Support Report which, as you can see, is very comprehensive, detailed, very high-quality, and the HDZ Club will support this report. As the State Secretary has already noted, the methodology itself and the 15th-in-a-row report itself, however, the Ministry of Finance has actually been producing this type since 2017, given that the Ministry of Finance has sublimated and united all these reports in a single report, which, according to both the EU and the members, is shown methodically uniquely, so far has been done by the Competition Protection Agency. What is very important is that in 2017. When we follow the sequence and the state support itself in the definition, we see that in 2017 the total support was actually increased by about 975 million kuna and that is, therefore, over 12.3 billion kuna allocated to the Republic of Croatia during 2017. When you look at it, and you can see from the report that it actually increases through this period from 2015 to 2017, so from not full 10 billion it is now at 12.4 billion kuna, which can also talk about that being good, but maybe it's not good in some segments, especially when we look at the structure of the support itself. In the share of state support in GDP, we also see that percentage increasing and it is now at 3.39% When we look at it in relation to itself, it means, per capita support, then we see that it is both nominally and relatively increasing, and they are higher by 232.00 kuna or equal to 2.950.91 kuna, which is 8.5% higher than in 2016. Also in the expenditures of the state, so the amount of support increased and they amounted to over 9.92%, while in 2015 it was only 8.33%. What we can read individually is actually all the support that has been given and only the support structure, what is very interesting to follow, and that is, that is, both horizontal and sectoral support, I would there as well as the specificity of our period and the time in which we live, and for which we have, in fact, a great responsibility but also the consequence that this is bringing. As regards sectoral support from 2015-2017, the period before that could also be considered. So when you look at how nominal the share of shipbuilding or radio-television broadcasting and traffic is, then you'll see that the shipbuilding took a big share in this previous period. However, the large share is certainly still, but constant radio television broadcasting, which again has the consequence of another, therefore, availability to the media. Shipbuilding declines, in 2016 and 2017 respectively. However, when you look at the structure itself, then this is what is happening now, and this is that these support is actually now reflected first through the issued guarantees that were very high in that period. Well, on page 49, you can see that the guarantees were over a billion in 2015. They have fallen by this time period, however, we have a special guarantee issued for Uljanik, a shipyard, which was over 3.6 billion kuna and therefore in 2015 there were a total of 4.6 billion, which 55% of all guarantees were in the shipbuilding sector. So now that we see what's going on in this sector, we see how very interesting it is to actually compare everything that happened during this period and how certain sectors have been using, or how a segment has been stimulated, whether it's this or someone else's. It is also important that support for restructuring resolution e.g. with this distance of time, it is one way to fall significantly, but all of these are actually consequences that continue to take away quite both our energy and our financial resources in the end line so that certain overruns in the economy themselves take place much better and that the market mechanism would actually be as good as possible. As is said, industry and services themselves were done in 2017. 58% of support or 7 entire nearly 2 billion kuna, while in itself, the support of the agriculture and fisheries sector alone was 42% or over 5 billion kuna, which then, 5.2 billion kuna, which is then also about our commitment to our very structure of industrial and agricultural production. I think that this is how the report itself shows how the structure of the state aid granted started and changed, and this is as mentioned that it was headed towards horizontal support, which is so-called. good support, which at the same time reduces the intensity of providing sectoral, which in any case is a desirable trend and in this way, should actually be very careful and very high-quality management of the aid itself, which obliges us and in relation to the very definition of support, therefore, not to distort the market mechanism. And just this way, we believe that with such a quality analysis and records that it can then respond in quality and timely time and direct support where it really is needed and that it can be very well run by economic policy, and also develop both industry and agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129923	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is one of the independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129924	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will continue in a brief discussion what I think is important, and based on this current report that we have before us and on what FINA published yesterday in a regular report, it is important to analyse. That's why I asked the secretary of state in the replica if there was any of this information, and I'm glad the secretary of state that you'll be in the future and that information, because it might be very useful to us. In short, to repeat 12 billion 393 million and 800 thousand kuna total support in the Republic of Croatia, according to the report, this means an employee of 8 thousand 807 kuna and 46 limes or per capita of 2 thousand 950 kuna 91 limes. These are not small numbers, be careful, it is not negligible and let's just say that some of these support would be taken per capita, then we could allow that really health care in the Republic of Croatia is absolutely free, I mean this one as it is called, the contribution is whether, health contributions to be, 70 kuna, those that citizens pay, additional insurance. Yes, it contributes, yes, the contribution would not be so much but, therefore, per capita it is 2950.91. It goes to the agriculture sector 5 billion 206 million and 900 thousand kuna. What's interesting about the agriculture sector now? The majority of 72.7% are subsidies while capital investment is 15.3% and tax relief is 12%. Of these 5 billion and 200 million kunas, 314 million kuna goes to the fisheries sector. The industry and services sector 7 billion 186 million and 900 thousand, of which sectoral support is 2 billion and 467 million and 500 000 and horizontal support involving regional, local support 4 billion 719 million and 400 thousand kuna and account for 65.7% of these industrial support. And then we come up with horizontal support in a narrow sense, which is 2 billion 178 million and 200 thousand kuna. And the Secretary of State pointed out that the trend in increasing horizontal support, so-called. Good support because the purpose of support is to encourage the economy, to develop the economy and that our economic operators are then competitive and to increase the number of employees. According to FINA data published yesterday in the Republic of Croatia, we have about a million and 200 thousand employees. But when we look at the structure of these employees, we can see the following. If we look at the county then 5 top counties, so they listed, top county with the largest share of employees in entrepreneurs, so to speak. The real sector is firstly Međimurska County with 85.5%, second place is Zagreb County with 82.5%, third place is Varazdin County with 82.2%, fourth place is Istria 81.1%) and the fifth is Krapina Zagorska 77.5%. Next goes Primorje goranska same 77.5%, next is Koprivnica-križevnica 76.4 etc.. However, if we look at the counties where the largest share of employees is in the budget users, then we can see the next picture. The worst on the issue is Lika-Senjska County, which has 45% of its employees, let's say in the state sector, means in the public sector. And now watch out for interesting information, the city of Zagreb is second with 36.6%. Watch out for the city of Zagreb. The third is Sibenik-Kninska with 33.7%, the fourth is Sisakko-Moslavinaska 31.4, the fifth is Vukovar-Srijemska 30.3%, then the sixth place is Požeko-Slavonska, 7th place Virovitičko-Podravska, 8th place Osijek-Baranja and 9. Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska and another Slavonska, in the 10th place of Brodsko-Posaviska. And why did I read this now, this data of FINA, let's go back to support, go back to those support in agriculture and 72 points, 72% of those support that are in agriculture going to subsidies. It is obvious that the main objective we want to achieve with support, and this is the development of the economy, we have not been able to achieve much. We are not talking about the sectoral support mentioned and which have not quite produced results, as we can see in this case of shipbuilding or the case of the Croatian Railways. Even the HRT case is many criticise whether it really is public television. But back to these industrial branches, first of all shipbuilding and railways, so we failed sectorally, in agriculture we failed. If we see by the structure of employees in Slavonian counties then we really remain as the third and best way of developing the economy are precisely these horizontal ones. And this report shows that there is a shift in that direction. And we hope in the future that these support will increasingly take up space, that SMEs will come easier to support, that they will be able to use them, that they will be able to develop and be competitive and that they will be able to employ people. Because why do people leave the country? Because they don't have a job. This is under a) a sub b) because they are not competitive companies and business is becoming less and less. So what this report should conclude is that the support itself will not develop the economy, but we can do much more with the support control and the proper support schedule. As far as the report is concerned, it's good and we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129925	Thank you very much. Before continuing, we welcome the gallery of students and students of the classical high school. I was particularly clapping because I'm an ex-classician. [[Applause]] Now we'll continue the individual debate. Honorable representative Iva Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129926	Thank you very much. Well, it's nice that the classics came to us, so then this assembly looks a little fuller. My colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'll say honestly, not demagogue but human, that I'm disappointed with how many of us are in the assembly today. And I'll tell you why. Because we're talking about 12 billion kunas of taxpayers' money, we're talking about 3.39% of GDP, or we're talking about 9.92% of the total expenditure side of the budget. And look how many of us are there. Today, it is an opportunity for anyone who has an affinity towards agriculture, according to transport, to have spoken to certain economic branches about what money from the state budget is being spent on. And whether those support results have been achieved. Look, we've been a little over the past few months, a little bit of a big concern for the Oilman. Today was the opportunity to talk about the aid in shipbuilding, did the Secretary of State say that this was not only a report for 2017, but these are revised reports for 2015 and 2016, therefore, the situation finally established for 2015 and 2016, and that is the case and will not be changed. Now look at your colleagues and colleagues, in 2015 at the head of the Croatian state and responsibility for the Croatian state for the use of budget money, there was another other political option that today shows a more terrible mentality, a great concern for Istria and Kvarner, a great concern for 3. May and Oilman, every day tears dive. I'd love to have them here right now, so that they're diving tears over these billions that have been given support to the shipyard, and these shipyards, unfortunately, are on their knees today. And maybe it's talking about the aid in the shipyard, and in a certain way and the support in agriculture, and also the support of HH might point us to something else, if we're giving money without control and if we don't control what the effect of these aids are, and therefore, it's good that the support structure is changing, that these support that is intended for certain economic branches disappear, and more and more space is taking up horizontal support. However, what I want to say today is particularly prominent is this story about the Uljannik shipyard and when you look at colleagues and colleagues on the page. 49 of this report says that in 2015 for the guarantee of the shipyard, actually the state provided guarantees to the Uljanik Shipyard 3 billion and 611 million, in 2016 billion and 348. However, it is very interesting in the text section to see why these guarantees are given, these are guarantees for new construction and in principle you are helping the shipyard to get credit, that this ship builds, tomorrow when they receive certain advances for that ship or final calculation, in principle those guarantees that you gave up the beating and the state there is practically no, if the ship is made, paid all, you have no costs. However, now all these guarantees come to us at full charge, now the question is whether someone lied when they asked for a guarantee or someone was not paying attention when giving a guarantee, because, if I'm not mistaken, the state budget last year instead of being positive, it is in a slight negative only because it has been protested somewhere around 2 billion and 800 guarantees for 2014 and 2015. And here again for the record and for the Croatian public I want to say something else, from 2010 to 2014 there are no guarantees for shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because the Croatian government has negotiated and entered the EU has assumed almost 9 billion commitments towards the shipbuilding guarantees, at least compensation, those of their assets on the maritime good and, plus, as part of the Croatian shipbuilding restructuring programme approved by the European Commission, took over the next four, five years from the budget for some 600, 700 million kuna to help restructure and shipbuilding. Therefore, the Croatian state has fulfilled all the way to the last June and then someone remembered that the guarantee should start again in 2014, and that someone is crying the most today and moaning over the Uljanik. So, in 2014 and 2015 over 4 billion guarantees were issued which, last year, will come into charge and will be the direct cost of the state budget. Well, you see, it would be nice for us IDS colleagues and SDP colleagues today to discuss it a little bit. Where's your money? Or, let's say, within this restructuring program 3. May got 500 million out of the state budget and then that 500 million loan to the Oilman and then at the end of the air there's neither the Oilman nor the 3rd. May, and just to stick to the Budget Act, and now I'm going to pull the parallel under this law that we discussed an hour ago, it's the State Audit Act, it doesn't always have to write everything in law to one, and the State Budget Act says that anyone who gets it, and not the budgetary user, who gets the money from the state budget, is required at the end of the year to the ministry that gave him that money, and that means automatically to the Ministry of Finance, to deliver a report on the funds spent. That's three. May did that, then the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance would see that these money wasn't spent properly, but that they were given as a loan to the Oilman, on which 3. May didn't have any right because he got the money for his business, and that's three. May has become a very, very interesting way of becoming part of the Oil Group. In 2012, someone boasted that they had restructured Croatian shipbuilding and then two days before Croatia's entry into the EU, 3. The SDP, IDS and others in the coalition have also not been resolved. Maya Oil, that's the story of this 500 million. And it would be good for us to discuss these five billion kunas today, because those five billion kunas, two and 800, we've already given, and two and 200 are going to give in the next years from the state budget. Also when you look at the support for agriculture, it grew from some 3 billion and 600, 700 in 2015 to 5 billion and 200 million in 2017, and on the other hand, when you look at the reports, when you hear a conversation about agriculture, you hear about one chaotic state. These money ends with someone, they support themselves, in agriculture with a single and unique goal of helping you to make your product cheaper and easier to place on the market and to compete with EU products. This is the meaning of this support nothing else, support does not serve to survive, support should not be given to anyone who does not place his goods on the market because he produces for himself. So, support service to that. We therefore give out of the state budget the money of all of us because when you look at the support in total per capita, so when you look at the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the annual level is 2.950 kuna, each citizen of Croatia in those 2,950 and then goes about 40% and support in agriculture. Now, colleagues and colleagues to all of us, are we satisfied with the state of agriculture, we are not, and 5 billion is a lot for the Croatian budget, is it? And when we discuss support, then we should discuss it that way. Each of us is bound to a particular area, each of us is tied to an economic branch, whether professionally, whether sentimentally, but not everyone can talk, let's see what's going on. So Croatia's shipbuilding has swallowed about 35 billion kunas since the Croatian state's independence, today it is on its knees. Unfortunately, I will not be able to reach the railways, but for some other debate and railways every year when you look at the contribution to the proposal of the state budget or the contribution to the implementation of the state budget you will see how many guarantees are given to the Croatian railways and how many guarantees are protested, and also do not forget your colleagues and colleagues that we took 20 lipas to Croatian highways and gave them to Croatian railways, it is at an annual level of around 500 million kuna, and it is in a certain way support because the state is those 20 June ones, they are practically excise duties or directed towards HZ. So, a very, very interesting topic unfortunately very, very empty assembly and unfortunately a fear when You have to argue with arguments and figures then many don't have the courage to be there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129927	Thank you, we have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129928	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Shuker, so I fully agree with you when we talk about support then we are talking about very generous amounts and something that needs to be controlled. It seems to me that the control system at our place has failed here agriculture, I'm going to say it a little picturesquely the other day, I was in a vineyard barely living my head out, I should have had a machete to get out. Watch out for such things people get incentives, no one controls them no one goes to see what money goes for. As far as shipbuilding is concerned, we had administrations sitting there for years, and at the end of the day, no one even mentions who put them there, how she was there, what she was doing, that a lot of money was going down, that they simply dragged what they call cash money, so these other ships made deals, so they covered the previous costs and they totally dragged it away, and that's why it finally came all the way to payment. Mostly irresponsible was the money that all taxpayers had to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129929	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129930	Look, colleague Žagar, I remember one situation I was then a minister because of the restructuring program we shouldn't have given guarantees to the shipyards, if it wasn't for the green light from Brussels and there was one unfortunate situation with May 3rd and now, you can think that although everyone knew that the county and the city couldn't give this guarantee to the city of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County had decided on their representative bodies about guarantees and now they're looking for breaks here, that. I said OK, no problem, just let the banks based on these guarantees approve the loan and I don't mind if I can satisfy the law. It's one policy of irresponsible behavior. It's the same story about the Oilman now, so as far as shipbuilding is concerned, we finally need to look the truth in the eye, no matter who liked it or who didn't like it. For Croatia 35 billion is an awful lot only since the year it was made so-called The restructuring programme for EU entry and when you add these 5 billion to you is almost 15.16 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129931	Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129932	Dear fellow Shuker, it's interesting here in the very conclusion when you look at it, you mentioned just agriculture, when you look at the structure that 72.7% are subsidies, everything is 15.3% through capital investments and 12% through tax relief, which means that agriculture should be much better standing and much better quoted than the current situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129933	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129934	Yes, I agree with you, so I specifically pointed out these 5 billion 200 farms, and I specifically said how much we gave money from 2004 to practically 2017, and now that we're all turning around and looking at the situation of agriculture, then everyone gets set up and your money is good. Because every year there weren't at least 600, 700 million kuna in the state budget for capital investments, plus these subsidies and the support they were. And now take 15 years on average 4 billion kunas, so figure out how much money it is, nothing more. But I'm saying this is an opportunity for us to discuss this in a conference, why, because these support sublimates are tens and we can even say hundreds of laws that we discuss in the assembly, so when we make laws, then we throw ourselves all this way, but when we look at these reports when we watch reports on the implementation of the budget, then that is not the case. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129935	Thank you very much. The next individual debate should be the respected representative of Lovrinovic, gone, lost his right to speak. The next one was supposed to be an individual debate of the respected representative Gordan Maras, gone, losing his right to speak. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-20-0.u129936	The Annual Report on State aid for 2017 is the applicant of the Act by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the annual State Support Report for 2017, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 for, 8 abstentions and 6 against the conclusion proposed by the parent council. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Today's first item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 569 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to that Article of the Rules of Procedure, the laws which are approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are laid down as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the esteemed Christian Turkalj, the state Turkish at the Ministry of Justice, please.
